K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Santander UK Plc defaulted her account  and reported negatively to 
credit reference agencies because of an outstanding overdraft balance.
background
In January 2018 Santander removed Miss Ms overdraft with it, which left her in an 
unauthorised overdraft. When Miss M contacted  Santander to discuss repaying  the balance  
it was agreed that she wouldnt be able to afford  a formal repayment plan. So, a pay down 
arrangement was agreed instead, whereby Miss M would pay at least £1 each month. Miss 
M said,  during this conversation,  Santander told her that if she repaid the balance in full 
within 15 months it wouldnt record any adverse information on her credit file or default her 
account. But Santander said it hadnt  said this.
Miss M telephoned Santander  in March 2018  because she had received a letter about a 
default on her account. During this discussion Santander said it explained that a pay down 
arrangement wouldnt  prevent  it from defaulting  her account or reporting  negative makers on 
her credit file. But Miss M said if she had known Santander would record adverse 
information she wouldve  considered paying  her overdraft using a loan from her parents.  
Following this second telephone call, Santander contacted  our service to query whether Miss 
Ms account  should  be put on hold while her our service  was investigating the complaint  
Miss M had raised about its decision to withdraw  her overdraft facility. As a result of 
discussions with us, Santander then put Miss Ms account on hold pending the resolution of 
her complaint. 
In May 2018, Miss M contacted Santander about negative credit  file markers it had recorded.  
Santander said it informed Miss M again that a pay down  arrangement  wouldnt avoid it 
defaulting her account  or reporting negative  information  about its status.  Miss M complained 
to Santander during  this telephone  call that it had been reporting negatively on her credit  file 
since January 2018. She felt this was unfair  because she said Santander had told her that a 
pay down arrangement would avoid a default.  So, Miss M said she had been misinformed 
about what would happen to her account  while she was a pay down arrangement.   
In July 2018, Miss M contacted Santander and set up a new payment arrangement  using the 
support of her parents.  But one month later, the arrangement was reset after Miss M missed 
the payment date.  
In September  2018, Miss M asked Santander  to amend her credit file to remove the negative  
markers it had recorded since January 2018. Santander didnt agree to erase that 
information and said it didnt think it had made an error in reporting these markers to credit  
reference agencies.   So, Miss M brought her complaint to our service  where  our adjudicator  
didnt uphold  it. Our adjudicator told Miss M that they didnt think Santander had acted 
unfairly or done  anything wrong.  But Miss M disagreed and her complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN44844292Ill make  it clear at the outset that I wont be commenting on Santanders decision to remove  
Miss Ms overdraft in January 2018. Our service  has already concluded its investigation of 
that complaint.  So, I will focus here on what happened afterwards.
The crux of Miss Ms complaint here is her belief that Santander shouldnt  have recorded 
negative markers on he credit file and that it told her that token  monthly payments would 
prevent her account  from being defaulted  while she was in a pay down arrangement. Miss M 
also said Santander told her that her account wouldnt be defaulted  before 15 months had 
lapsed. She told us that our service  had also reaffirmed this to her.
Ill focus on Miss Ms complaint about the negative markers first. She is unhappy that 
Santander has reported negative markers on her credit file. She says she was told this 
wouldn't happen but Santander doesnt accept this. Where theres  a disagreement  about  
what happened, as there  is here,  I have  to base my decision  on what I think is more  likely to 
have happened  in the circumstances, on the balance of the evidence available.  Ive given 
careful consideration to what Miss M says here.  But, having listened to recordings of the 
telephone discussions  she had with Santander I dont  think  it told her it wouldnt record  
negative information.  Ill explain  why.
Having seen Miss Ms credit report I can see that Santander started  to report  adverse 
information to credit reference agencies in January 2018. Prior  to this point no adverse 
information is recorded. When Miss M spoke with Santander in January 2018, Im satisfied it 
informed her clearly that negative markers would appear on her credit file if the full payments 
weren't made. During this call Miss M offered to pay £20 per month  towards her overdraft 
debt. But, Santander  told her that her account  was likely to default because  of the low 
repayment amount  she had offered.  Miss M asked Santander what would be reported to 
credit reference agencies and it replied that it would report that she was in an unauthorised  
overdraft. So, Im persuaded Santander clearly told Miss M the information that it was 
planning to report  to credit reference  agencies. And Im also satisfied that, knowing 
Santander would do so, Miss M agreed  to enter into a pay down arrangement.  It follows  that 
I dont think Santander  acted unreasonably in recording this information at this stage.
In March 2018, Miss M contacted Santander again.  During this discussion Santander agreed 
to put Miss Ms account and any collection actions on hold until her other  complaint, which 
was being investigated with us at that time, had been resolved. But it didnt tell Miss M it 
wouldnt continue to report  monthly to credit  reference agencies about  the status of her 
account. So, I dont  think it acted unreasonably when it continued to report that by now Miss 
Ms account  was in sustained arrears.
Ive looked at Miss Ms statements  over this period to see if what Santander was reporting 
was accurate. Based on what Ive seen, while Miss M made a £20 payment to her account in 
January 2018  there were no further  credits into her account until March 2018  when  she 
paid £20. Thereafter,  there she didnt make any further payments until August 2018. So, Im 
not persuaded that the information Santander reported was inaccurate.
Santander is entitled to record information about  the conduct of Miss Ms account.  And Im 
satisfied it reported  this information properly  and accurately, as wed expect  a lender to do. 
So, I cant say Santander acted unfairly and unreasonably in reporting this information or ask 
it to remove it as its a true reflection of what happened.  
Ill turn now to the second part of Miss Ms complaint, which is about the default. Miss M said 
Santander told her it wouldn't happen before 15 months under any circumstances. But 
Ref: DRN44844293during her telephone conversation with Santander  in January 2018, it said it can take around 
15 months to default on the pay down arrangement. So, I dont  think  Santander was telling 
Miss M here that it wouldnt default  her account prior to this period expiring. And Im satisfied 
that when Miss M telephoned Santander  in March 2018 it corrected her misunderstanding. 
Miss M has said that our service also told her that her account  wouldnt default before 15 
months. But I havent seen any evidence that we said this to Miss M. And as Miss M hasnt 
provided any evidence  to confirm that this was said Im not persuaded that this advice  was 
given by our service. 
I understand from Santander  that Miss Ms account  hasnt actually been defaulted. Although 
I can see that she received letters in August warning  her that it may register a default  if her 
arrears were  not paid.  Santander said it wont default Miss Ms account until her complaint 
has been resolved  by our service. It has also said that following our decision, Miss Ms 
account will no longer  be on hold and that shell receive a final 30 day warning letter before 
her account  defaults.  Given  what Ive seen about  how Miss M has been managing her 
account I cant say this is unfair. 
I know that this decision  will disappoint Miss M. And I appreciate  the reasons why she 
brought this complaint to our service. But, while I sympathise with the difficulties she found 
himself in I dont think Santander has done  anything wrong here.  And, because  of this, I 
wont be asking it to do anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4484429