K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
between 1996  and 2000. Miss A says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Based  on what I know about Lloyds sales processes,  I think Lloyds in all likelihood  
made it clear that Miss A didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out 
 although I can understand  if she cant remember this, as it happened many  years 
ago.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss A so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss A about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
All of the above means  Lloyds  doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Miss A.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss A because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss A about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Miss 
A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss A has said in this complaint. But these points dont 
change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss A.
Ref: DRN41885212But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Miss A any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4188521