K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with how Covea Insurance Plc handled a claim they made on 
their car insurance policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs M bought a used car for around  £12 000. A few months  later the car was stolen. 
It was a keyless car and Mr and Mrs M had both the keys. They made  a claim on their car 
insurance policy. Covea  wanted to make  further  enquiries with the police about the 
circumstances of the theft.  
The police contacted Covea to say theyd found a car matching Mr and Mrs Ms. But it 
subsequently turned out the number plates had been switched and this wasnt 
Mr and Mrs Ms car. Covea agreed  to pay a settlement of around £10 360 which  they said 
took into account the prices quoted in the industry trade guides. Covea also acknowledged  
there had been  some  delays in handling  the claim and their advisor couldve been more  
proactive at times.  So they offered £150 to acknowledge  this. 
Mr and Mrs M explained they felt like theyd been treated like criminals.  They  dont think the 
amount theyve been offered fairly reflects the value  of their car. Mr and Mrs M are also 
unhappy because  the claim has been  recorded as at fault  and because there were  delays  
in handling the claim.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He was satisfied that the specification  of 
the car, its mileage and condition had all been  taken into account when valuing the car. He 
concluded Coveas  offer was reasonable and in line with the likely selling prices outlined in 
the industry guides. He thought it was reasonable Covea made enquiries with the police 
although he could  understand why this made Mr and Mrs M feel like criminals. He agreed 
there had been  some  delays but thought the £150  offered was fair. And he explained that at 
fault was how insurers recorded claims when they couldnt recover their losses from a third 
party. So it didnt mean Covea were saying the theft was Mr and Mrs Ms fault.  
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree. They provided  some further information about the specification of 
the car. The investigator checked this information  and was satisfied this had been taken into 
account in the valuations.  Mr and Mrs M asked an ombudsman  to review the complaint as 
they didnt agree with the outcome our investigator  reached. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  says that Covea has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Im very sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs Ms car was stolen, especially so soon  after theyd 
bought it. I can understand how upsetting this must  have been and how much  inconvenience 
it caused. However, I think the settlement  Covea  has offered is fair because: 
Ref: DRN48942302Valuing used  cars isnt an exact science. The industry guides are based on extensive  
nationwide research  of the likely selling prices  of cars.  Covea has used the industry  
guides to decide  what the value of Mr and Mrs Ms car was, which  is common in the 
motor insurance industry, and I think is reasonable in this case
The retail value  of Mr and Mrs Ms car varied across the guides. Covea used an 
average of the values  to decide the settlement figure. I note the figure Covea offered 
is consistent with the figures our investigator  located in the trade guides. So Im 
satisfied Covea have  offered  Mr and Mrs M an amount which fairly reflects  the 
figures in the trade guides 
I can appreciate it was upsetting for Mr and Mrs M as they felt their integrity was 
called into question  during the claims process.  But I dont think  it was unreasonable  
for Covea to make further enquiries  about the circumstances of the theft as they 
needed to validate  the claim and carry out some further enquiries before settling it
Its unfortunate Mr and Mrs Ms hopes were raised when they thought  the car had 
been recovered. But Covea relied  on the information provided by the police,  which I 
think was reasonable.  I can understand how disappointing this was but it doesnt 
change my thoughts  about the outcome of this complaint 
I can see that there were delays  in handling the claim. However,  not all of those 
delays were due to Covea. The police had a backlog  and they also had to wait for 
reports on the authenticity of the keys. So I dont think all of the delay was 
unreasonable because sometimes Covea were  waiting  on other parties  to get back to 
them
 I do think there were times when Covea couldve been proactive, particularly in 
relation to obtaining valuations once theyd decided to deal with the claim and settle 
it. This would have meant  the claim could have  been settled earlier. However, I think 
the £150 compensation offered fairly reflects  the trouble and upset caused.  
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4894230