K822xComplaint
Miss C complains that Lookers Motor Group Limited  mis-sold her a finance agreement  for a 
car.
Background 
Miss C entered  into a Personal Contract Purchase  (PCP) hire purchase agreement with a 
finance provider  in September 2014  to acquire a new car. She traded  in her previous car as 
part of the transaction. Lookers acted as the credit broker.
Miss C says that before entering the agreement she asked about how the agreement  would 
work. She says she was told that equity would  build up through  the agreement term which 
she could then use as a deposit for another car. Miss C says she was told that there 
wouldnt be any negative equity and that if she part exchanged the car at the end of the 
agreement no excess mileage charge would be applied. Miss C says that based on there 
being no negative  equity in the car she had intended  to keep it until the end of the 
agreement (or until a new agreement was made) and so she didnt expect to incur the 
excess mileage charge. 
In January 2018, Miss Cs car was serviced, and she says she was told she would never 
have any equity in the car and that every mile she drove was costing her due to the excess 
mileage charge. Miss C voluntarily terminated her agreement  and was charged for excess  
mileage. Miss C says that the agreement was mis-sold and had she been given the correct 
information she wouldnt have entered the agreement. She says the mis-sale  has lost her 
the deposit she paid towards the agreement and resulted in her incurring an excess mileage 
charge.
Lookers issued a final response letter in February  2018. It said that Miss C had signed the 
documents indicating that shed had a written  and verbal explanation of the agreement. It 
said that the agreement included information about  the total amount payable and mileage 
allowance. It said there  was no evidence that the future value had been guaranteed and it 
noted that Miss C had ended the agreement  early.
Miss C didnt accept Lookers final response  and referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator said that the agreement didnt  include a guarantee that there would be any 
equity which could  be used as a deposit  on a future  car. However, she noted that it wasnt  
enough to rely solely on the documents and that Miss C had given a consistent testimony 
about what was discussed before she took out the agreement. Our investigator thought a 
key part of Miss Cs decision to enter the agreement was based on the reassurances she 
was given at the time and there were grounds  to indicate that Miss C was misled.
Our investigator said it wasnt possible to say what Miss C would  have done  had she been 
told there could be negative equity, but she thought  it more likely than not that Miss C would 
still have gone  ahead  with an agreement for a new car in some  form. In this case she 
thought a fair resolution was for Lookers to settle the excess  mileage charge on Miss Cs 
behalf and for any adverse information that may have been recorded  regarding this charge 
on Miss Cs credit file to be removed.
 
Ref: DRN48592692Lookers agreed  with our investigators view. Miss C didnt. Miss C reiterated that she 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the agreement had she been given the correct  information 
and that this issue had lost her a lot of money. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by our investigator  for the following reasons:
Miss C has provided a consistent testimony about the questions she asked before 
entering the finance agreement. Therefore, while I note that the agreement set out 
the details of the finance being  provided  and the terms, I think  it also fair that the 
verbal information Miss C relied  on is taken into account when assessing this 
complaint.
Miss C was looking to acquire a car. At the end of the agreement, Miss C would  have 
the choice to either pay the final payment and take ownership of the car or to hand 
the car back. Therefore, I agree with the comments made  by Lookers  that she 
wouldnt have to incur  any negative equity as if the cars value was less than the 
balloon payment she could return the car. 
Miss C has explained  she asked questions about how the agreement  would work and 
was concerned about possible  negative  equity. I find on balance, it more likely  than 
not that Miss C was led to believe that she would  have some positive equity at the 
end of the agreement which could be used  towards a new car. That said, there is no 
guarantee of this and no mention of any amount.
Miss C decided to voluntary terminate the agreement early when she was told there 
would be no positive  equity and that driving the car was costing her. This was her 
choice. But, as noted above,  I believe she was led to believe at acquisition that there  
would be positive  equity at the end and so I can understand why she took the action 
she did. 
Miss C has said that she has lost money  as she part exchanged her previous car 
when entering  the agreement  and she has lost the value  of this. I note the point she 
has made but the deposit contributed reduced the overall  amount she borrowed and 
therefore the monthly repayment costs. Miss C had use of the car until she chose to 
terminate the agreement and while she was making monthly payments for this these 
will have  reflected the deposit contribution and the mileage allowance.
Because Miss C terminated the agreement  early and had exceeded the mileage 
allowance an excess mileage charge was applied. The agreement set out the details 
of the mileage allowance and excess mileage  charge. 
Overall, I think it more  likely than not that the agreement was in part misrepresented to 
Miss C and I think it fair she is compensated because of this. However, as the deposit 
contribution will have  reduced the monthly payments I find she had the benefit of this and as 
there was no guarantee of an amount at the end to go towards a new deposit I do not find I 
can recommend any compensation amount for this. However, I agree with our investigator 
that Miss C took the actions she did to terminate  early  due to the concern about the value  of 
the car and had she continued to the end of the agreement and part exchanged the car at 
Ref: DRN48592693that time (as I believe  was her initial intention)  it is likely no excess mileage charge would be 
applied. Therefore, I find it fair that this charge  is settled on Miss Cs behalf.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lookers Motor Group  Limited should as it has agreed (and if this 
hasnt already happened):
reimburse the excess mileage charge to Miss C if she has already paid this along  
with 8% interest since the time it was paid or settle the excess  mileage charge with 
the finance provider on Miss Cs behalf;  and
ask the finance provider  to make any amendment necessary to Miss Cs credit file if it 
shows adverse information due to this charge.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4859269