K820x#14complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  that Santander  UK Plc declined her online application for a credit  card.  
She says she and her family are longstanding,  good and loyal customers. She wants  it to 
provide her with a credit card, rectify her credit history and pay compensation.
background
Our adjudicator felt this compliant shouldnt be upheld. She said:
Santander says Mrs Ms application  was made online and was assessed by its 
automated system  applying its lending criteria. It scored the information  Mrs M 
provided during  the application process  and as her score wasnt high enough her 
application was declined. 
Although this was disappointing for Mrs M its an example of Santander making a 
legitimate commercial decision.  Its entitled to set its own lending  criteria and decide 
who it will lend to. Thats not something wed generally interfere with.
She cannot therefore require Santander to provide Mrs M with a credit card as shed  
like. 
Mrs M doesnt  agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  She says she and family 
members have handsome  amounts of savings  in Santander. More  than enough  to pay back 
anything she would  owe. Shes never  missed a payment. Her account is always in credit and 
she hasnt an overdraft.  As a loyal customer she shouldve been  given  a credit card.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
I understand Mrs Ms frustration at not being  given a credit card given  that she considers 
herself to be a loyal, longstanding, solvent  and good customer. But the simple fact is 
Santander is entitled to decide  what its lending criteria are and who it will give a credit card 
or lend money  to.
In this case Mrs Ms online  application  was assessed by Santanders  automated system 
which it says applied  its lending criteria. And as Mrs M didnt get a high enough score  in this 
process the application was declined.
I understand Mrs Ms frustration at not being  given a more detailed  reason for this decision.  
But Santander isnt obliged to disclose its lending criteria as theyre commercially sensitive 
or to further explain or justify its decision to decline her application.
Santanders decision to decline Mrs Ms credit card application is an example of it exercising 
its commercial  discretion, as its entitled to do. And this isnt something in which we would 
normally get involved in. 
Ref: DRN40821702Consequently I cant now require Santander to give Mrs M a credit card as shed  like. I 
appreciate Santanders decision has clearly had quite an effect  on Mrs M. Even so, as 
Santander hasnt  done anything wrong, I cant fairly or reasonably require  it to pay her any 
compensation or amend  her credit file as shed like.
Overall, although I recognise  Mrs Ms strength of feeling, I dont see any compelling  reason 
to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4082170