K822xcomplaint
Mr C and Miss Rs mortgage application  to Santander UK Plc required them to obtain a 
structural engineers  report. They did so at a cost of £420. They complain  that Santander 
refused to accept the report because it required specific qualifications,  but Mr C and Miss R 
werent made aware of this. They had to pay for a second report  as well as the first.
To resolve  their complaint  they want Santander  to reimburse the £420 and pay 
compensation.
background 
Mr C and Miss R applied  to Santander for a mortgage. The surveyors valuation dated 
4 January 2019 included  the following:
The property is in a basic condition with the works of repair  and maintenance required. 
Evidence of movement was observed in the form of distortion and inadequate support to the 
roof structure and lean to the party parapet wall. This appears significant and likely to be 
progressive.
Recommendation: Obtain a report from a qualified  structural engineer advising on the 
structural stability of the property as a whole.  Any recommendations must be carried  out 
under professional supervision.
On 18 January 2019 Santander issued a mortgage  offer. Part B condition 9 said:
You must obtain a report on the structural stability of the property from a structural  engineer 
in respect of the subsidence/movement mentioned in the valuation report, along with reports/ 
cost estimates for any other works mentioned in Section 11 of the valuation  report,  and send 
copies to us for approval at least 2 weeks before completion is due. We wont be able to give 
you the loan money  until the report(s)/estimate(s) have been approved by an independent 
valuer. Details of local engineers can be obtained  from the Institute of Structural Engineers  
on []. Alternatively a specialist report service is available  from [] on [].
Mr C and Miss R say they instructed a structural engineer as requested, and paid his fee of 
£420. They  sent the report to Santander. Santander  replied  on 29 January 2019:
We are unable to forward the report to the valuer  as the inspecting engineers qualifications  
do not meet the banks requirements.
Santanders letter didnt  say what was wrong with the engineers qualifications, so Mr C and 
Miss R complained. Santander replied on 31 January 2019:
From my investigation I have checked  the offer details and have found that condition 9 on 
page 8 informs you of how to contact the appropriate engineers.  Your solicitors  are then 
responsible for ensuring this condition  is met correctly and in line with the banks 
requirements. I cannot identify any Santander  error  for not accepting the report.
Ref: DRN48638352This still didnt say what was wrong with the engineers qualifications so Mr C and Miss R 
brought their complaint  to this service. But our adjudicator didnt recommend it be upheld.  He 
said:
I think  its fair and reasonable to suggest you should have made  contact with either  
Santander or your solicitor in advance of instructing your own surveyor. I cant  see any 
evidence of you contacting Santander  to discuss the mortgage  offer conditions,  so they did 
not have an opportunity to provide any further  support to you.
Mr C and Miss R didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the case.
I took a different view of the complaint to the adjudicator. So I decided to issue  a provisional  
decision, setting  out my view of the case and inviting further comments. Both parties have 
now responded and so I issue  my final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Having done so Ive failed  to see what Santander found to be wrong with the engineers 
qualifications. And Santander  itself hasnt said.
The engineer in question is B.Eng (Hons),  M.Sc, structural  engineer.  The qualifications of 
the engineer whose  report was accepted  are B.Sc C.Eng M.l.Struct.E. 
The only significant  difference which I can see is that the second engineer is a member of 
the Institute of Structural Engineers. But its not compulsory for a structural  engineer to be a 
member of that institute,  and more importantly, Part B condition 9 didnt require this. It said 
only that details  of local engineers could (not should) be obtained  there.
A number  of acceptable  qualifications were read out to Mr C on the phone but there is no 
mention of these  in condition 9. That condition requires only that Mr C and Miss R appoint a 
structural engineer. That was a relatively straightforward step and I cant  see that it called for 
any prior discussion  with Santander or with Mr C and Miss Rs solicitor. 
If Santander had further requirements  of the individual or business  making  the inspection,   
other than being  a qualified civil or structural engineer, it should have told Mr C and Miss R 
what those requirements  were. Alternatively it should have told them  there were some  and 
directed them to where they could find out what they were. 
A lender cant assume that a lay person will know there are likely  to be additional 
requirements without  being  told. And a consumer shouldnt  suffer  financially because  a 
lender made an assumption and didnt fully explain its instructions.
For the trouble  and upset caused to Mr C and Miss R by the delay in their application and 
Santanders failure to inform them  that it had particular requirements,  its my provisional  view 
that Santander should pay to Mr C and Miss R compensation of £250.
Ref: DRN48638353My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and order Santander UK Plc 
to pay Mr C and Miss R £420 and £250  compensation for their trouble and upset.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  conclusions I confirm them here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Santander UK Plc to pay 
Mr C and Miss R £420 (subject  to proof  that they paid that) and £250 compensation for their 
trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 October  2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4863835