K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Leeds Permanent Building Society  sold the mortgage and PPI. But, following a merger,  
Halifax is now responsible  for dealing with this complaint. So, to keep things simpler, in my 
decision Ill just refer to Halifax  as the business that sold the PPI.
background
Miss B took out PPI alongside a mortgage  in 1994. This protected  her mortgage monthly 
repayments in the event  that she couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.  
Miss B has mentioned a number of complaints.  Mainly, she told us that she wasnt aware 
that shed taken out PPI. And she also said that it wasnt something she wouldve needed as 
she had other means to rely on to cover her mortgage monthly repayments.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Halifax couldnt provide any paperwork signed  by Miss B from the time of sale. But this isnt 
a reason for me to uphold the complaint. Its not surprising that paperwork isnt still available 
after so long. I wouldnt expect Halifax or Miss B to have kept this. So its not clear how PPI 
was sold to Miss B  Halifax couldnt  confirm this information. But Miss B says she recalls 
meeting with an advisor to discuss her mortgage. So I think  she probably took out the PPI 
during the course of those  talks.
I cant know exactly what was discussed  when Miss B took out PPI. Ive taken into account 
Miss Bs comments, including what shes said about having no memory at all that PPI was 
mentioned or that she ever agreed  to take it out. But it wouldnt be reasonable to expect 
Miss B to recall exactly what  was said so long ago. So what  she says now about the way the 
PPI was sold isnt enough  on its own for me to be able to uphold the complaint. I must look 
at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely. 
Miss Bs mortgage was a major financial commitment,  due to run for a long period of time. 
Her home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage  payments  werent kept up to date. PPI 
provided a dependable  means of ensuring  her monthly mortgage repayments were 
protected even  if Miss B couldnt work.  Looking  at her circumstances at the time I think that 
PPI offered  her protection that she couldve benefitted from having.  
On balance, I think its more likely  that Miss B felt that she wanted to have the benefits  that 
PPI offered  and she decided to buy the policy. 
Ref: DRN46947642Halifax wasnt sure how it sold the PPI to Miss B. So it looked  at this mis-sale  complaint on 
the basis that its advisor had recommended PPI to her. Given the lack of paperwork showing  
how the PPI was sold to Miss B, and the fact that Miss B thinks she spoke  to an advisor, 
I think this is the fairest  way to assess this complaint as it imposes extra  obligations on the 
lender. If a business  makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have  to give 
important policy information  in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make  sure 
the cover  it recommends  is suitable . So this is the approach Ive adopted in my decision. 
 
I think PPI was suitable, based on what Miss B has told me about her circumstances  at the 
time. 
Miss B was eligible for the PPI policy. She couldve relied on getting 6 months full sick pay 
followed by 6 months half pay. But I think PPI still couldve been useful. It wouldve paid out 
in full for up to 12 months per claim in the event of accident and sickness.  So the PPI 
provided better protection than she couldve relied  on getting through  her employer. And it 
wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Miss B with a useful benefit at a difficult time  
especially if she had some extra costs  as a result of being sick or disabled. 
Also, the policy wouldve paid the mortgage repayments for up to 12 months  if Miss B lost 
her job unexpectedly and she was unemployed. 
Multiple claims were possible under the policy so it couldve provided long term protection for 
the mortgage.
Ive taken into account that Miss B mentioned  having savings she couldve relied on  but 
I havent seen  any details about this and I think its likely these mightve  been  put towards 
the costs of buying and setting up her new home. And I dont know if Miss B wouldve always  
had savings to depend on to make  her monthly repayments. So this doesnt  affect  my overall 
view. 
Being entitled to redundancy  benefits wouldnt have helped Miss B if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve  got if shed 
lost her job, giving  her some additional  financial security in those circumstances.
Relying on someone  else to help out in the event  of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
Its possible some information Halifax gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  There were some things the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt look as if this 
affected Miss B. So, even  if these werent mentioned, I dont think that knowing more about  
things the policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference to Miss Bs decision  to take out 
the policy. And I dont  know  how the cost was explained, but Ive seen nothing  to suggest 
that the policy was unaffordable for her. 
Taking everything into account  I think Miss B still wouldve decided  to buy the policy even if 
shed been better informed  as it provided  useful  protection in her particular situation.  I dont  
think better information wouldve put her off buying it. 
So I dont  find that Miss B lost out as a result of anything  Halifax mightve done wrong. This 
means it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
Ref: DRN46947643In coming to my decision Ive thought  carefully about  everything that Miss B has said, 
including the comments she made  in response  to our adjudicators view. In my decision Ive 
looked at what  happened when the PPI was sold to Miss B  so what happened later on 
doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint. 
And I appreciate that she is unhappy  with the service she has received from Halifax  in the 
course of it responding to her complaint.  Although its clear  this has caused her some  
frustration, overall I dont consider theres  sufficient  reason to award  Miss B compensation 
for this.
I understand that what Ive said will come  as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out 
the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 May 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4694764