K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains about DAS Legal  Expenses Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her 
claim made under a legal expenses insurance  policy. 
Where I refer to DAS, this includes their agents  and claims  handlers. 
For ease of reading the amounts referred to have  been  rounded where appropriate. 
background
Mrs R was in dispute with her employer.  The dispute had been ongoing since  2015 and 
Mrs R had already instructed her own solicitor B outside of her insurance. 
In March 2016 Mrs R made  a claim to DAS. The claim was accepted and it was agreed that 
B would continue to represent her. Mrs Rs legal  case  progressed and a settlement was 
reached through judicial  mediation in June 2016. Mrs R says she was awarded a global 
award of £56,000.  She says she elected  to take £10,000 of this amount as costs in lieu of 
the legal  expenses shed incurred that either  predated her claim to DAS or werent covered 
by the policy.  
When DAS came to settle the claim they asked a costs draftsman to assess  the costs 
against the policy terms. Mrs Rs claim to DAS was for £24,000. Based on the costs  
draftsmans report,  DAS said the policy  only provided cover for around £16,000 of those 
costs. They  then went on to deduct  the £10,000 Mrs R had received  from her employer 
which they said was a costs award  leaving the amount  to be paid by DAS at £6,000.
Mrs R didnt think this was fair, given that shed incurred £10,000 in costs prior to making her 
claim. So DAS proposed  to split this £10,000.  They calculated  that overall the policy  covered 
(and therefore DAS were  responsible for) just over half the total legal costs involved with the 
case. Mrs R was responsible for the remainder. So DAS proposed to reduce their £16,000  
liability by just over half of the £10,000 amount, effectively taking their share of what  they 
said was a costs  award.
Mrs R didnt accept this and there  was a long period of negotiation  between her solicitor  and 
DAS over the settlement amount. The claim was finally settled for £17,000 in late 2017. DAS 
say this figure was arrived at in part on a commercial basis  to try to resolve matters. This left 
Mrs R with a shortfall of around  £7,000.  That being the difference between  the £24,000 
shed claimed for from DAS and the negotiated settlement amount of £17,000. 
Mrs R complained to DAS, she was unhappy  with the length of time it took to settle  her claim 
and also with the fact that her legal costs  werent being covered in full. She particularly didnt 
think DAS had acted  fairly  with regard to the £10,000 amount. DAS responded and in 
summary said that they were entitled to rely upon  the costs  draftsmans report to assess the 
costs against  the policy  terms. They disagreed theyd acted unfairly, but they acknowledged 
some delays and offered  £200 compensation for the impact  of this. 
Being unhappy with this response, Mrs R brought her complaint  to our service.  One of our 
investigators didnt  think  it should be upheld. He concluded DAS had acted within the policy 
terms and fairly and that the compensation theyd already  offered was fair for the delays. 
Ref: DRN48899792Mrs R asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. I agreed with our investigator, but 
my reasoning was slightly different. So I got in touch with both Mrs R and DAS to give them  
a further opportunity to comment. DAS had nothing further to add. Mrs R made a number of 
points which  Ill address below. Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can 
go ahead  with my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and wont be asking DAS to do more. Let me explain why. 
Mrs Rs policy says it will cover legal costs and expenses for a number of insured events. 
Costs and expenses  are specifically defined as All reasonable and necessary costs 
chargeable by the representative on a standard  basis  This is a common term in legal 
expenses insurance  and not one Id consider inherently unfair. So the policy  sets out that 
only reasonable and necessary costs will be covered. 
A costs draftsman is an expert in legal costs. Its common  for an insurer to appoint  a costs 
draftsman to assess a claim to ensure the costs  claimed for are reasonable and necessary, 
in line with their policy  terms. The costs draftsman who assessed  Mrs Rs claim for £24,000 
concluded that only £16,000 of those costs were covered by the policy. The costs draftsman 
in this case is employed by DAS.  Mrs R says this is inherently unfair and thinks that this is a 
conflict of interests which means the report cant be relied upon.
Ive thought carefully about this point  and can understand  Mrs Rs concerns. But in the 
absence of a conflicting draftsmans report, I have no basis  upon which to conclude  it is 
unfair for DAS to rely on the report. The route to challenge this was to provide a report from 
a qualified draftsman  which  contradicts  DAS  own report. Had Mrs R provided a report  that 
found in her favour, I would have expected DAS to review things to ensure she hadnt been  
disadvantaged by the negotiated settlement amount she received. And in those 
circumstances I also would have  expected  DAS to consider reimbursing the reasonable 
costs of obtaining the report. 
The draftsmans report means  that the £16,000 amount represents DAS  full liability for the 
claim. The claim was settled following negotiation and in part on a commercial basis.  The 
only way Id be able to conclude that this was unfair would  be if Mrs R had been 
disadvantaged by this. As the settlement was agreed at £17,000, this is greater than DAS  
liability so I dont think this has resulted  in any detriment to Mrs R. 
Mrs R received the £10,000 amount  from her former  employer. DAS settled £17,000 in line 
with the negotiated settlement; I appreciate this left Mrs R with a shortfall of £7,000 in legal 
costs. But these are costs that (on the basis of the draftsmans report) arent covered by the 
policy. 
Based on this I dont  think the dispute  about  the £10,000 amount being treated  as costs or 
otherwise has made a difference to the amount  Mrs R has received  from DAS. So it wont 
add value to provide a more detailed analysis. The settlement ended up being agreed in part 
on a commercial basis and through negotiation. DAS have settled for more than the extent  of 
their liability,  I dont  think this is unfair.  
Ref: DRN48899793DAS themselves acknowledge that they caused some delays in the negotiations  about the 
settlement of the claim.  They offered Mrs R £200 compensation for this. The majority of the 
negotiations were conducted  by B on Mrs Rs behalf. But I agree this would have also have  
had an impact on Mrs R and in the circumstances, I think the £200 offered is fair and Im not 
increasing it further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4889979