K821x#15complaint
Mrs L says Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about four short-term high-cost loans Cashfloat  provided to Mrs L between
February 2018 and March  2018.  They varied in term from three to four months.  This is a 
summary of Mrs Ls lending history from Cashfloat.
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 02/02/2018 09/02/2018 200
2 10/02/2018 15/02/2018 350
3 15/02/2018 07/03/2018 300
4 10/03/2018 20/02/2019 500
In its final response letter  Cashfloat offered Mrs L a goodwill  payment of £75 in full and final 
settlement of her complaint. Mrs K didnt accept this and brought  her complaint  to us.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Ls complaint  in part and thought loans 3 and 4 shouldnt  have 
been given. Cashfloat didnt respond  to the adjudicators view so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs L
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN45786662But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashfloat should  fairly and reasonably  have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish
whether Mrs L could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Mrs Ls complaint. Having done so Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the adjudicator, and for the same reasons.
There was nothing to indicate Cashfloat needed to do more when it approved loans 1 and 2. 
I think it carried out proportionate checks looking at affordability and creditworthiness, and 
there was nothing in the information it gathered that I think should have led it to make 
different lending decisions. So I dont  think Cashfloat was wrong to give loans 1 and 2 to 
Mrs L. 
However, by loan 3 I think there were indications that Mrs L was struggling  to repay her 
loans. And so Cashfloat ought to have  realised that to continue to lend to Mrs L at this point 
in time might  be harmful. I say this because by then she had taken out three loans in less 
than two weeks, and loan 3 was for more than her first loan. Each  time Mrs L had repaid  her 
loan early but she then borrowed  again  quickly - on the following day for loan 2 and the 
same day for loan 2. 
Cashfloat argues  that she had a good payment history,  and it considered  this when  
evaluating her applications for further borrowing. But I dont think  that is a safe conclusion. 
Whilst I accept  early  repayment can be an indication of improving financial stability,  it can 
Ref: DRN45786663equally indicate someone is struggling to meet their repayments  and is most likely 
borrowing elsewhere to make the repayments. And I think Cashfloat ought  to have realised 
from Mrs Ls borrowing pattern  ie. the high frequency of her loans and the lack of any 
reduction in loan value - that by loan 3 any further lending was more likely than not to be 
harmful. As a responsible  lender I think  it should  have considered that it was unlikely her 
repayments were being  made from a sustainable  source.
Cashfloat ought to have  realised it was more likely than not Mrs L was having to borrow  
further to cover the hole repaying  her previous loan was leaving in her finances and that her 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
So I think Cashfloat was wrong to give loans  3 and 4 to Mrs L.
  
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 3 and 4, and Cashfloat should put things right.
putting things right  what Cashfloat  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs L paid on loans 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 3 and 4 from Mrs Ls credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat  must give
Mrs L a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Ls complaint.  Western  Circle Ltd 
(trading as Cashfloat)  should pay Mrs L compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept
or reject my decision before 29 February  2020. 
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4578666