K822xcomplaint
Mrs S has complained about the way that Ikano Bank AB (publ)  (Ikano)  dealt with a claim 
she made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
background 
In December 2014 Mrs S was approached  by a company called Y Solar  Limited (Y Solar).  
She entered  into an agreement with Y Solar for the supply and installation  of a solar  panel 
system.  The cost of the system was £7,500  and Mrs S paid for it by way of a fixed term loan 
Y Solar arranged with Ikano.
The loan was to be repaid  over a 10-year term and the total to be repaid with interest was 
£11,693.75.  Mrs  S says that the salesman told her the financial benefits generated by the 
system would cover  the cost of the loan.  Those benefits come  from energy bill savings and 
Feed-in Tariff (FiT) payments from selling excess energy back to the grid.
The system hasnt generated the financial benefits  Mrs S was expecting and so hasnt 
serviced the loan payments.
Under s.75 a credit  provider can be held responsible for misrepresentations and breaches of 
contract to the same extent as the supplier of good  or services  so Mrs S made  a claim to 
Ikano.  It rejected the claim  saying that the system hadnt been  mis-sold and the estimations  
given at the time werent a guarantee  of performance.
Unhappy with Ikanos  response, Mrs S referred  her complaint to this Service.   One of our 
investigators looked at things  and recommended the complaint be upheld.  In summary,  he 
said there was a clear  shortfall between the system  benefits and loan cost,  but he believed 
Mrs S account that the salesman told her the system wouldnt cost her anything  or cause 
any debt.
To put things right the investigator recommended that Ikano restructure Mrs S loan to 
reduce the cost and ensure it doesnt  cost more  than the benefits generated over the loan 
term.
Ikano accepted the investigators recommendation and calculated  what the cost would be for 
Mrs S.  The  calculation also took into account that Mrs S had missed  payments on the 
original loan.
Mrs S considered the offer but didnt accept  it and said the loan cost was still too high.  As 
no agreement could  be reached, Mrs S asked for the complaint to be passed  to an 
ombudsman for a fresh review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator.
For there to be a valid s.75 claim,  there must  be an appropriate debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship.  Im  satisfied  that relationship exists here, and as Ikano has accepted 
responsibility I wont expand on this point further.
Ref: DRN48678052Ikano has also accepted that the system was misrepresented to Mrs S by the Y Solar  
salesman.  So,  the key issue for me to decide is what  is a fair and reasonable way for things 
to be put right.
The contract Mrs S entered into with Y Solar included  estimates of the annual  output from 
the solar panel  system, along with details of the income that it would  generate.  Although the 
estimated income  would not have been  enough  to cover the loan, Im persuaded the 
salesman told Mrs S that the system would cover the cost of the loan and pay for itself.
Mrs S has explained she had concerns about the financial  implications of purchasing  the 
solar panels  and didnt want to get into debt because of previous financial trouble shed 
experienced.  Ive  also considered that Mrs S wasnt actively  looking to purchase  solar 
panels, so I agree its likely she only entered the agreement because  she thought they 
wouldnt cost her anything.
Taking account of those  circumstances, Ive considered what would  be the fairest  way to put 
things right.  Whilst Ive thought about  asking Ikano to unwind the agreement and arrange for 
the solar panels  to be removed, I dont think thats appropriate in this case   as the cost of 
Ikano arranging that is disproportionate  to whats reasonably required.
Whilst its not my position to make a misrepresentation true, I do note that Mrs S was happy 
to enter  the agreement  on the basis that the panels  were self-funding and didnt  cost her 
anything.  That being the case, I agree that restructuring the loan to reduce the cost to reflect 
the likely  benefit  the system provides is fair.  The loan term is 10-years and so it shouldnt 
cost more than the savings  and FiT income  generated  by the system over that same period.
Ikano agreed with this in principle and Ive reviewed  the basis for its calculation to achieve  
that.  Im satisfied that its line with what our Service would recommend in such 
circumstances.  That would mean the system would pay for itself over 10 years,  and Mrs S 
would continue to receive benefits  and income from the system after that time.
Ive reviewed Ikanos  calculation and am satisfied that its based  upon  reasonable 
assumptions.  I understand the calculation is impacted by missed payments and that Mrs S 
loan is in arrears  but given that overall, its based  upon the likely total benefits and cost 
over 10 years, its fair to account for the missed payments.
I understand Mrs S may be disappointed with my conclusion, but I must assure her that Ive 
considered everything  afresh and impartially.  Having done so, Im satisfied the calculation to 
restructure the loan Ikano  provided to Mrs S in December 2020 is fair and reasonable.  This 
is because, in principle, it will ensure that over the 10-year loan term the cost of the system 
is no greater than the benefits  generated  by the system  and it will effectively  become  self-
funding.
Im aware Mrs S says the payments will still be too high.  If she has difficulty  affording  the 
payments once the loan is restructured, she should  contact Ikano to discuss her 
circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs S complaint against Ikano Bank  AB (publ).  
As explained above, Im satisfied the offer calculation  provided by Ikano in December 2020  
is a fair and reasonable way of putting  things right.
Ref: DRN48678053I leave it to Mrs S to decide  whether  or not to accept that offer to restructure  her loan.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2021.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4867805