K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2007. Mr A says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  him the PPI.
background
I sent Mr A and Barclays a provisional  decision to explain why I thought I should uphold  the 
complaint. I said Id consider anything else Mr A and Barclays  wanted to give me by 
22 February 2019. I said if Barclays and Mr A replied sooner I could issue  my decision 
sooner. Barclays and Mr A did reply  sooner. Barclays  told us it thought  the complaint should 
be upheld. Mr A didnt have anything else to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint because I dont think Barclays gave Mr A clear  
enough information about the policy.
Mr A took out his policy when he took out his credit card online. From what  Barclays has 
said, the online card application  gave a brief summary of the cover  but didnt mention the 
medical exclusion. Instead the exclusion was contained in a separate policy summary. And 
to access that policy  summary Mr A wouldve had to click on a hyperlink. The exclusion was 
then set out there amongst all the other  key policy details. Barclays  has said the medical 
exclusion itself was on the second  page.
Barclays has said this means  the exclusion was brought to Mr As attention before he said 
yes to the cover. But what Ive seen doesnt  persuade me that Barclays did enough to bring 
Mr As attention to the exclusion before he chose to take the cover.  So I dont think  Barclays  
gave Mr A clear enough information about  the policys medical  exclusion.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mr A because he had a medical condition which wouldnt 
have been covered. So I dont think Mr A couldve claimed on the policy for everything hed 
have expected to be able to claim for. I say this taking into account that hes told us he would 
on occasion experience symptoms of a medical issue  hed been treated for some years  
earlier. And, from what he has said,  its likely Mr A experienced symptoms  of this at some 
point in the twelve months before  he took out the policy. And Mr A was likely  to find that a 
work absence arising from this issue would be excluded by the policy.
I say this taking into account  that an absence arising from that issue  wouldnt be excluded if 
it arose after two years  in which Mr A hadnt had any symptoms  of it. But, as already noted, it 
was some years since Mr As treatment  and he still experienced symptoms on occasion.
Barclays had pointed  out that Mr A hadnt  taken  any time off work in the five years before the 
sale. So Barclays had thought it unlikely that Mr As condition would have resulted in him 
being off work for more than two weeks. So Barclays had thought the exclusion  wouldnt  
Ref: DRN41695372have matter to Mr A. And it had pointed out that the exclusion  of Mr As existing condition 
wouldnt have stopped Mr A from claiming for any other  medical condition.
But the problems  Mr A had experienced in the past with his health  issue  had involved a very 
lengthy work absence   and had other consequences for his employment too. His symptoms 
in the few years before  the sale werent, from what he has said, serious enough  for Mr A to 
go to a doctor. But as he continued to have symptoms, the possibility that Mr A might 
experience further  problems  as a result of his condition was apparent  in my view. And given 
the serious nature of the problems his condition had caused him in the past, I think it was 
also apparent that a future problem arising  from Mr As condition  might involve him being off 
work for more than two weeks and considerably longer. So I dont think  its likely Mr A 
wouldve taken the policy knowing  it didnt cover him for the condition he already  had.
With what Ive said above in mind, I dont  think  Mr A wouldve bought  the policy if Barclays 
had given him clear  enough information  about  it. So I think Mr A has lost out because of 
what Barclays did wrong.
what the business should  do to put things right
Barclays has told us Mr As credit agreement has ended. Barclays should put Mr A in the 
financial position hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.Barclays should  find out how much Mr A would  have owed when he closed his credit 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr A owed when  he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr A made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.Barclays should  add simple interest  on the difference between what  Mr A would have 
owed when he closed his account  from when  he closed it until he gets the refund.
C.If  when  Barclays works out what Mr A wouldve owed each  month without PPI  Mr A 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, Barclays  should also pay simple  interest  on 
the extra Mr A paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when  Mr A 
wouldve owed Barclays something on his credit card.
D.Barclays should  tell Mr A what its done  to work  out A, B and C.
I understand Barclays has already repaid some of the commission and profit share  amount 
that relates to this PPI sale. So Barclays can deduct that payment from the redress above.
 The interest  rate should be 8% a year. Barclays has to take basic rate tax off this interest.  
Mr A can claim back the tax if he doesnt  pay tax.
Ref: DRN41695373my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I uphold  Mr As complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should  
put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4169537