K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs P. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in November 2001. The policy was sold to 
cover an already existing  store credit  account. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  FICL didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. This is because I dont think FICL  gave  clear  
enough information about the costs and benefits  of the cards.  I think  this would have 
mattered to Mrs P because her combined work sickness benefits and savings would have 
not made the cost of the PPI worthwhile. I think Mrs Ps recollection of her level of savings is 
more likely than not to be true. I say this because  she has given some information about how 
she reached this figure, which she has said is likely to be the minimum of what she had. 
fair compensation
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put Mrs P in the financial position shed be in 
now if she hadnt taken  out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs P would have owed when she closed her credit  
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs P owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs P would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
Ref: DRN40340282C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs P would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mrs P 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs P paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs P 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her credit.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs P what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs P a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs P that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Mrs Ps complaint. I require Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4034028