K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained about the way CIS General  Insurance  Limited handled  their 
home insurance claim after damage  was caused  by an escape of water.   
For ease, reference  to CIS will include anything done by its agents.
background 
In 2017 Mr and Mrs S returned home  to find damage had been caused by an escape  of 
water from a pipe in the bathroom. They claimed on their policy with CIS to put things right.
CIS appointed a loss adjuster, who in turn appointed  contractors to dry the property and 
carry out repairs. Mr and Mrs S said the contractors  couldnt predict how long the repairs 
would take. So, CIS agreed to move them and their family to alternative accommodation due 
to their health needs. Mr and Mrs S said they didnt  ultimately move  until January 2018  
because suitable  accommodation couldnt be agreed, and CIS changed its mind about 
offering a cash settlement. 
Mr and Mrs S complained to CIS about  delays in finding them alternative accommodation 
and being given incorrect information about what bills CIS would pay for. CIS sent them a 
final response letter about that on 1 December 2017. 
Mr and Mrs S experienced  further problems over the following months and complained  to 
CIS. They said CIS had caused avoidable  delays in repairing their property and they still 
hadnt been paid for the bills they should  have been.  They  were  unhappy  that CIS had left 
them in their home while it was damaged from the leak and said further damage had also 
been caused which led to further  delays and repairs being needed. 
CIS issued  final responses about this on 31 August 2018 and 4 October 2018. It accepted 
there had been  confusion  over what had been  paid and thought it could have  handled this 
better. It agreed there had been some delays  and poor communication and Mr and Mrs S 
had to chase more than they should  have done.  So, it offered them a total of £200 
compensation to make  up for this. 
Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy and brought their complaint to us. They  said CIS had 
refused to extend  their alternative accommodation until the last minute  on several occasions. 
They said Mrs S spent  many hours  trying  to sort things  out with CIS and this had included 
expensive phone calls.  They said Mrs S had to give up her studies which  meant shed lost 
thousands of pounds due to the distress and inconvenience CIS caused  her. Mr and Mrs S 
also didnt think any costs  incurred  due to CIS delays should be included in the total claim 
cost towards their policy limit. 
Our investigator agreed CIS had caused Mr and Mrs S unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience by causing avoidable delays.  He also thought  theyd needed to chase CIS 
more than was necessary  in order to get things sorted. So, he asked CIS to pay 
Mr and Mrs S £800 compensation for this.
CIS accepted our investigators view although  it said it couldnt start repairs  until January 
2018 due to Mr and Mrs S not moving  out until then. Mr and Mrs S didnt think £800 was 
enough to compensate for what had gone  wrong  and said theyd lost thousands of pounds  
due to CIS errors. Mr and Mrs S said their daughter didnt get into the university of her 
Ref: DRN40744372choice due to all the upset and transition and shed  also lost earnings by not being able to 
complete her studies.  As Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree  their complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for largely the same reasons.
Mr and Mrs S have  made a number  of detailed points. While I appreciate how strongly they 
feel about this complaint  were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint, Ive focused  on what  I consider to be at 
the heart of the matter rather than commenting  on every issue in turn. This isnt intended as 
a discourtesy to Mr and Mrs S. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service,  the remit 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service  and my role in deciding  this complaint.
Im aware that Mr and Mrs S have made other  complaints about CIS. But in this decision Im 
only considering  the complaint they made  between December 2017 and October 2018 that 
was dealt with in CISs final responses dated August  2018  and October 2018. Any other 
complaint points would need to be dealt with separately. 
CIS accepted there had been  some confusion about  which  utility  bills had been paid. And I 
cant see that CIS has imposed the policy limits  at that time. So, Im going  to focus on the 
delays and the distress  and inconvenience CIS caused  to Mr and Mrs S. 
The escape  of water happened in July 2017 and Mr and Mrs S property still wasnt  repaired  
by October 2018. CIS accepted there  had been some poor communication and additional 
delays. So, I need  to consider what CIS needs to do to fairly  compensate  Mr and Mrs S. I 
dont intend to list everything  thats  happened, although Ive considered it all when deciding 
on a fair and reasonable outcome to this particular complaint. 
The loss adjusters report estimated that Mr and Mrs S would need alternative 
accommodation for eight  weeks  while the house was dried, and repairs carried  out. And 
even if I accepted CISs point that it couldnt  start repairs until January when the family  
moved out, the repairs werent completed  in eight weeks. 
Mr and Mrs S were  out of their home  for much longer  than they should have been. Im 
pleased to see they were  provided with alternative accommodation. But this was extended 
on a number of occasions, which I accept caused Mr and Mrs S distress  and inconvenience 
each time it happened. They also had the added  distress of not being able to live in their 
own home for much longer than was necessary. 
I can also see that Mr and Mrs S pre-empted problems and expressed doubts about CIS 
contractors - which turned out to be reasonable. CIS also told Mr and Mrs S that their house  
was dry at one point  but that wasnt correct.
Mr and Mrs S had to chase payments for utility bills and have shown they made  more  calls 
than they should have  needed to in order to get their home repaired. Theyve provided some 
itemised phone bills to show the number of calls they made, but these also show the calls 
were free. So, I havent seen anything to persuade me CIS needs  to reimburse Mr and    
Ref: DRN40744373Mrs S for their calls,  but I accept they were inconvenienced by having  to make so many of 
them. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S strongly  feel that the upheaval caused  their daughter not to get 
into her preferred university  and also led to the breakdown of Mrs S own studies. However, I 
havent seen enough to persuade me that the problems CIS caused were the reason for 
either of these. So, Im not going  to increase  the amount of compensation for this. Although, 
I do accept the repairs  would have caused  additional  distress  at what  was already a stressful  
time. 
Having taken all these  things into account,  Im satisfied that £800 is a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation for CIS to pay Mr and Mrs S. Im aware  that theyd like more  than 
this, but I think this fairly reflects  the level of distress  and inconvenience unnecessarily  
caused them.
my final decision
My final decision is that CIS General Insurance Limited should pay Mr and Mrs S £800 
compensation for their distress and inconvenience. 
It should pay this within 28 days of us telling it Mr and Mrs S have accepted  my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it should  add interest at a rate of 8% simple from the date of 
my decision  to the date it makes payment.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 December  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
1 If CIS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs S a 
certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN4074437