K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains about the advice she was given  by Stirling Insurance  Brokers Limited in 
1996 to transfer  deferred  pension benefits  she held in a former  employers occupational 
pension scheme  (OPS) into a personal pension plan.  
background to complaint
In 1996, Mrs C was advised to transfer the preserved benefits she held in a company 
pension scheme  into a personal pension. She complained to Stirling  in 2017 about  the 
advice shed received. Stirling  didnt think the advice was unsuitable, and so Mrs C referred 
her complaint to us. 
Stirling told us it didnt  consent to us considering the complaint. It said Mrs C had left it too 
late to complain, as the advice was given  in 1996 and shed complained  more  than six years 
after this. 
Our adjudicator didnt  agree that the complaint  was out of time. While he noted that the 
complaint had been made more than six years after the event complained  about,  he said 
that Mrs C hadnt complained more than three years after she became aware  she may have 
cause for complaint. 
Stirling maintained  its objection, and thought Mrs C had left it too late to complain. It noted 
that shed moved  her pension in 2006  following  advice from a different financial adviser. It 
thought this would have  included a review of the advice shed received previously, which 
would have made her aware of any problems with the original transfer. Stirling  also said it 
wasnt clear that Mrs C was entitled to remain in her company scheme  in 1996, and wanted 
to also raise this as an objection. 
So the case was referred to an Ombudsman. He decided that the complaint had been  made  
in time. He didnt think annual  statements from the pension providers showing how Mrs Cs 
pension fund was performing would  have given her reason to question  the advice. He didnt 
think she would have  known from this information  whether  or not she should have 
transferred from her company pension scheme.  
The Ombudsman noted Stirlings comments about  the advice Mrs C received in 2006 to 
transfer her benefits  but he thought the advice in 2006 was focused on improving her 
pension provision. There was no obligation  on the adviser to reassess or revisit the advice in 
1996.
The Ombudsman noted that Mrs C had told us she first had reason to doubt the advice she 
was given when  discussing her pension with a colleague  whose  situation  was similar to her 
own. This was in 2017 and was when Mrs C became aware  she may have cause for 
complaint, and she complained within three  years  of this date.
The merits of the complaint  were then considered by an adjudicator. The adjudicator  decided  
that the complaint should be upheld. He noted  that Mrs C had given up guaranteed future 
benefits and made investments which were subject  to investment risk. The critical yield 
required to match the deferred benefits was high and towards the upper end of the 
suggested returns in the projections  from the time. He thought that this presented  a 
significant risk and that the advice wasnt suitable. 
Ref: DRN47260232The adjudicator set out how redress should  be calculated.
Stirling accepted  the adjudication and began to calculate redress  with the assistance  of an 
actuary. However, when  redress was calculated it felt the sums were disproportionate.  
Stirling also made further comments on the merits  suggesting that the risks of transfer  had 
been explained and that transfer to a personal  pension was the only viable option.
Stirling then made an offer to settle  but Mrs C didnt accept.
Stirling also provided evidence from former  directors who had been involved in 1996.  This 
added, in summary, that there had been several  meetings with Mrs C, the advantages and 
disadvantage of transferring had been explained,  the projections  used were in line with 
industry guidance at the time and the personal  pension was portable  which  met her 
requirements.
The adjudicator said that this didnt  change his view and so the case  has been referred to 
me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the evidence, Ive decided that I agree with the adjudicator. I uphold this 
complaint and will explain why. This advice was given  in 1996 after the industry regulator 
had started an industry wide review  of pension advice. The review included  advice on 
pension transfers  out of defined benefit schemes  like this one.
I can see that Stirling did offer advice  on different  options that were available.  I can also see 
that it said that investment returns were not guaranteed. However, Im not satisfied that it 
clearly set out the risks Mrs C would be taking. She was giving up defined  benefits which 
were guaranteed in exchange for investing  on the stock market with the associated  risks that 
presented. 
The critical yield required for Mrs Cs investments to match the benefits she was giving up 
was 10.44 per cent. That is just to match the deferred  benefits, and so a higher return  would 
be required  for her to be actually better off. So a return closer  to 11.5 or 12 per cent would 
have been required  for Mrs C to gain any advantage. The higher  rate of projected  return at 
the time was 12 per cent.  So even at the time, Mrs Cs investments would have needed to 
perform consistently at the highest rate for her to be better off. Whilst that may have been 
anticipated as possible at that time, I think it was a relatively high risk strategy. And Ive not 
seen anything in Mrs Cs circumstances at the time which suggest that she was someone 
who was a high risk investor.  She was in her mid-twenties with little or no investment 
experience.
Im satisfied that if the true nature  and extent of the risk had been  explained  to her she would 
have chosen not to transfer and remain in the OPS. There  is no evidence to suggest that 
was not an option for her.
My decision  is that I uphold the complaint,  and that a fair and reasonable outcome would be 
for the business  to put Mrs C, as far as possible, into the position  she would now be in but 
for the unsuitable  advice.
Ref: DRN47260233Stirling must undertake  a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this 
should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate  provider promptly  following receipt of 
notification of Mrs Cs acceptance of the decision.  
Stirling may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain Mrs Cs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Cs pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement   presumed 
to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  
this. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mrs C 
within 90 days of the date Stirling receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision.  
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 
90 days, that it takes Stirling to pay Mrs C this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about Stirling Insurance Brokers Limited. It must calculate  and pay 
redress as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4726023