K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2004. Miss R says Capital One (Europe)  plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss R case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear  that Miss R didnt  have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this as it was 
so long ago. I say this because  Capital  One has provided a copy  of Miss Rs credit card 
application, which she completed through the post. On this, I can see that the PPI is 
presented as an optional product  and has been selected with a tick. Miss R has then 
gone on to sign the application, agreeing  to the information on it.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss R so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Miss R got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss R about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means Capital  One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss R.
But Capital One will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss R because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss R about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Miss 
R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has basically offered  to pay back the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss R has said - but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN48736502Capital One has to pay back to Miss R any commission  and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Capital One should  also pay back  to Miss R any extra  interest 
she paid because of that.
Capital One should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Miss R the difference 
between what Miss R owes  and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share 
it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Capital One should also pay Miss R 8%* 
simple interest if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss R can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss R.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss R any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4873650