K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) hasnt treated her fairly  she 
says shes received poor service from it in connection with her two business  loans.
 
background
Miss S is a sole trader.  She says she took out two business loans with the bank, in 2003 and 
2007, to facilitate the purchase of two business  premises  one was here in the UK and the 
one was abroad. Miss S told us:
She took out a £35,000  loan with RBS in 2003  to purchase some  business premises  
and at the same time she took out a life policy  to protect her loan repayments. She 
says she arranged  the term of the loan so that her last monthly repayment for both 
the loan and the life policy  would become due in January  2018.  And she says all this 
was arranged by her RBS Business Relationship Manager.
In 2007 she wanted to purchase additional premises,  abroad, so she asked the bank 
to extend her existing  loan by a further £30,000 and she asked it to make sure the 
term of the loan remained unchanged.
In late 2017  she tried to contact  her business relationship  manager  but was unable to 
reach them. She says she was making contact because she knew  her loan would 
shortly be repaid, and she wanted  to make arrangements for the property title deeds. 
She says her local bank branch had closed,  and RBS hadnt told her that it had 
changed its business banking arrangements  she no longer  had a business 
relationship manager  assigned to her account.
In December 2017 she received confirmation  that her life policy  had terminated,  as 
she expected,  and she arranged to cease  her loan repayments in January 2018.
In February 2018 RBS wrote to her to confirm her loan account was in arrears and 
when she tried to contact the bank, it had difficulty accessing her account. The bank 
representative asked  her a number of security questions and Miss S says this must 
breach the data protection rules.
She contacted  the bank and its Chief Executive to seek  some  clarity around why she 
still owed the bank money after the end of the term of the loan.  But she says she 
didnt receive any satisfactory answers  or information about her loan account.
Miss S says the bank hasnt given her details of her outstanding balance or been  able to 
show her proof that she still owes it money. She says it removed her business  relationship  
manager without  notifying her and it hasnt sent her loan statements  for many years. Miss S 
says the bank also didnt ensure she had sufficient life cover  she was left without life cover  
to cover the second  loan after January 2018.  And she says its continued to charge interest 
on her loan whilst it investigated  her complaint despite saying it wouldnt do so.
RBS rejected this complaint. It explained  that it had changed the way it manages business  
accounts and it no longer  has branch-based  business relationship  managers  operating  in the 
way they had in the past. It says it mailed affected customers  at the time of the change  
several years earlier. RBS says its business  managers are now mainly telephone and 
internet based,  and the bank needs to ask security  questions  when  customers telephone 
them. It says it asks a number of questions about  the customer  and the account, which we 
would expect them to know, in order to determine  that we are indeed  speaking with our 
customerwe are not in breach of data protection by completing  security over the 
telephone.
Ref: DRN43197712The bank says it has very little paperwork relating to Miss Ss first bank loan, the one she 
took out in 2003, because the loan was taken out and repaid so many  years ago. But it says 
the paperwork it does  have shows that Miss S took out a new loan in 2007.  This loan was for 
£76,500 and was to be repaid over a period  of 14 years  so it should be repaid  in full in 
June 2021, and not 2018 as Miss S believes.  And it asked her to continue to make her 
monthly loan repayments, including arrears  to ensure that you comply with your obligations 
under the terms  of the agreement. 
RBS says there was no requirement for a customer to hold a life policy  to protect their loan 
repayments  so its not unusual that Miss S had a life policy  on one loan, but no policy  on 
her other loan. It wouldve been her choice each time she took out a loan whether or not she 
wanted to purchase  a life policy at the same time.
The bank says it issued  annual statements and these were sent to the address it held on file. 
It says it has no record  of any problems  with generating the statements or of them being 
returned in the postal  system. But it accepted that Miss S hadnt  received them  and it sent 
her duplicate statements  from the date the loan started to the date she raised her complaint.
Miss S had also raised  a complaint about the possible mis-sale of a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) policy and the bank asked  her to contact a specialist team it had set up that 
looked at complaints relating to PPI.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that the loan paperwork hed seen confirmed Miss S second loan would run from 
June 2007 to June 2021  14 years. And hed seen nothing to suggest  that Miss S had 
asked for a life policy to cover this loan.
Our adjudicator said it wasnt unreasonable for RBS to restructure its business banking  team  
and its offering and it wasnt  something  that this Service could look at.
He said hed looked at everything  Miss S had told him, but he didnt think RBS had done 
anything wrong  and he wouldnt be recommending the bank waived any of the interest and 
charges on Miss S loan account.
Miss S disagreed so the complaint comes  to me to decide. She says shes  happy to pay 
RBS any monies that she genuinely owes. But she says she shouldnt  have to pay the loan 
interest that was charged to her account whilst the bank investigated her complaint  and 
she says the bank agreed to this during one of her telephone conversations with a bank 
representative.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I hope that Miss S wont  take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint. Our rules allow  me to do that. Miss S should note, however, that although I may 
not address each individual point that shes raised, Ive given careful consideration to all of 
her submissions before arriving at my decision.
Ref: DRN43197713Having considered the evidence, Ive reached  the same conclusion  as our adjudicator and 
for broadly the same reasons. I realise Miss S will be disappointed,  so Ill explain my 
reasoning.
First of all, its important  that I explain that businesses arent required to keep paperwork and 
documentation indefinitely,  so I dont think its surprising that RBS no longer has all the 
paperwork for the loan Miss S took out in January  2003 and repaid in May 2007. In these 
situations, I make my findings  on the documentary evidence I have seen  and what I think is 
more likely to have  happened based  on the testimony of both parties.
Loan 1
Although theres  no paperwork for this loan, RBS was able to provide this Service with 
screenshots and data from its computer systems.  Having looked at this information carefully, 
Im satisfied that Miss S took out this loan in January 2003. The loan was for £35,000 and 
was to be repaid  over a period of 180 months. 
The statement  data shows Miss S made monthly  repayments until June 2007 when the loan 
was fully repaid  with a payment of just over £26,000.
Loan 2
This loan started  in June 2007.  The system data and the loan agreement  show that Miss S 
took out a loan for £76,500  over a period of 168 months  this means the loan would run for 
14 years  until 2021. The loan agreement states that The loan shall be utilised for the 
purpose to repay existing  RBS loanand  to repay  other private loan.
The statement  data shows that the £76,500  comprised four elements:
£750 loan fee
£40,000 payable  to another party
£9,421.83  paid to Miss S business
£26,328.17 to repay  loan 1.
So, Im satisfied that loan 2 was a new loan and Im satisfied that the new money that Miss S 
borrowed in June 2007 was not simply an extension of her existing loan, loan 1. I say this 
because loan 1 was fully repaid at this time.
I understand Miss S now has copy statements for both loans from the time they were taken 
out to the point at which she brought her complaint to this Service.  So theres  nothing  further 
the bank needs to do.
The Banks structure and operations
The bank made a decision to change the way it managed the relationship  with its business 
account customers. This is a commercial decision for the bank and not something  that I, or 
this Service can comment on. I can look at the service Miss S receives if she complains 
about it. But the structure of the banks departments  and the services it chooses to provide  
are a matter  for RBS.
Similarly, RBSs  decision  to operate  a separate specialist area looking at any claims of PPI 
mis-selling is a commercial and operational decision for the bank  its not something I can 
comment on. Once the bank has completed  its investigation into any PPI mis-selling 
Ref: DRN43197714complaint, Miss S can bring  a new and separate complaint to this Service  if she remains  
unhappy with the outcome of that investigation.
Interest and charges
Miss S says she shouldnt  have  to pay the loan interest that was charged  to her account  
whilst the bank investigated her complaint and she also says a bank representative  agreed  
to this. RBS disagrees   it says it did not agree and would not have agreed to waive these 
interest charges  and it holds Miss S liable for the outstanding debt.
I know that Miss S says the bank  made  this offer to her, and shes provided a witness  
statement from someone who, she says,  heard her telephone conversation with the bank. It 
would not, however, be appropriate for me to take account of this witness statement  I dont 
have any powers to interview this other  person and I cant cross-examine them  or compel 
them to give sworn testimony. RBS responses throughout our investigation of this complaint 
have been consistent  the account will continue to accrue interest in the normal  way, and it 
will hold Miss S liable  for the outstanding debt.
Where the parties  disagree, I make my decision based on what  I think is more likely to have 
happened in the circumstances. And having  done  so, I dont think RBS agreed to waive the 
interest charges  whilst it investigated  Miss S complaint.
So, for the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint. I know Miss S will be 
disappointed with the outcome, but I hope  she understands why Ive reached the 
conclusions that I have.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4319771