K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide) didnt tell him the monthly 
repayment date for his loan would be a month from the day the funds were received or that 
to move the payment date would incur  an interest charge and a late penalty notice on his 
account.
background
Mr W complained  to us as he was unhappy  with Nationwides response  to his concerns. 
Nationwide said there had been no error made by them so they didnt uphold  his complaint. 
They told Mr W that as part of the online process he agreed to the online terms and 
conditions which confirmed the first payment is due exactly one month  after they sent the 
loan funds to Mr W and a customer must  then make payments on the same date each 
month after that. And they said when Mr W first called them  on 26 November 2018  to check  
the progress of his online  application he didnt mention that he wanted the repayment day to 
be the first of the month  but did tell them it was important to him that funds  were  released 
that day so he could make a purchase.
Our investigator felt the online terms and conditions Mr W clicked and agreed  to when 
making the application clearly explained  when his repayment date would be so he couldnt 
say that Nationwide had been  unclear  with this information. He also thought  because  Mr W 
applied online it was his responsibility to fully read the terms and conditions of the loan 
before accepting it. He also thought that in those terms Nationwide were  clear in telling 
customers that they will incur more interest if the loan isnt paid on time and that they fairly 
told Mr W what would happen if he made a late payment on his account. So he didnt uphold  
the complaint.
Mr W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said the call the investigator 
had listened to wasnt the actual original call as hed made a call before the loan was setup 
and then a call from the Nationwide complaints team. He said no one on the phone 
mentioned initially  moving  dates  or that when the loan commenced it can incur interest 
charges.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in the letter 
giving his opinion  so I wont repeat it here.  Indeed, theres not a great  deal I can add to what  
the investigators already told Mr W. I think hes covered the points quite  clearly,  extracted 
the relevant clauses from the terms and conditions  and I agree with his overall analysis.
The evidence which Nationwide have sent to this service, including the call recordings and 
transcripts satisfy me that it was made  clear  to Mr W when the monthly repayment date 
would fall and the implications of him later requesting a different monthly  date. Its Mr Ws 
responsibility when  applying for a loan to ensure hes read, understands and is happy to 
agree to the terms  and conditions. I think the timing of the repayment date and the 
implications of changing the monthly  date were  clearly set out in the terms and conditions,  
the relevant extracts  of which are highlighted in the investigators view, and which Mr W 
Ref: DRN40891242agreed to when applying for the loan.  So I cant  say Nationwide  have  done  anything wrong 
here and it follows that I cannot uphold this complaint.
Mr W has told us he made a call before the loan was set up and in that earlier call no one 
mentioned initially  moving  dates  or that when the loan commenced it can incur interest 
charges. I havent listened to that as the recordings and transcripts I have are all after the 
loan was approved subject  to proof  of income. But even if I did have that call I dont  think 
that would  alter my decision here. Even if I accept what Mr Ws told us about that earlier  call 
he still went on to agree to Nationwides terms during the online loan application  and 
wouldve been made aware  at that point  of the repayment date and the impact of altering the 
monthly repayment date.  
Although in later calls Mr W suggested  had he known about the repayment date being set 
exactly one month after he received funds he wouldve waited to apply, Im not persuaded 
that wouldve  been the case. And thats because Mr W is clear in a number of the calls from 
26 November 2018 that he wanted to ensure the funds were  released to him that day. Nor 
did he elect to cancel  the loan within the 14 day cooling off period which,  from everything Ive 
seen, Im satisfied he was aware of at the time.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4089124