K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 2002. Mr and Mrs H say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS), trading at the time as 
Chelsea Building Society, mis-sold this cover to them.
background
I issued a provisional decision (PD), summary  attached, in October  2019, setting out why I 
thought the complaint should  be upheld.  I then asked both parties to provide any further 
submissions or information  to me within one month. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive looked, in particular, at the response from YBS.  In my view, it says nothing new and 
merely repeats the argument that Mr and Mrs H must have changed their mind  about having 
PPI. I dealt with these issues comprehensively in my PD.
I have found YBSs arguments to be contradictory throughout this matter.  It cant show me 
anything which shows it obtained the correct permission from Mr and Mrs H to add PPI to 
their mortgage and it makes a number of weak assumptions about the process which  was 
supposedly followed during the sale. Neither Mr nor Mrs H ticked any of the relevant PPI 
boxes during the sale to say it was something  they wanted to buy. This strongly indicates to 
me that they didnt want any PPI. If they had  they would  have  ticked  a box asking for it or 
otherwise shown it was something they wanted.
Theres therefore no reason for me to change the findings  I set out in my provisional 
decision. 
what I think YBS should do to put matters  right  
YBS should  put Mr and Mrs H in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. It 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs H the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  YBS can take off what  
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them. 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  YBS to take off tax from this interest. It must  give Mr and Mrs H a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
Ref: DRN46124442I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and require Yorkshire Building Society to pay the 
compensation as outlined  above. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am 
required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept  or reject  my decision  before 21 December 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN46124443summary  provisional  decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out with a mortgage in 
2002. Mr and Mrs H say Yorkshire  Building  Society (YBS),  trading at the time as Chelsea Building 
Society, mis-sold  this cover to them.
For consistency Ill refer mainly to YBS.
background
One of our adjudicators  looked  at this complaint and provided a view that it shouldnt be upheld. Mr 
and Mrs H dont agree so Ive been asked to make  an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Im currently thinking  about upholding  this complaint.
The policy was in only Mr Hs name, protecting him against losing his job or being  too ill to work. Mrs 
H wasnt covered  on it. 
Mr and Mrs H say the policy was added automatically  and they dont recall ever agreeing to it. They  
dont remember PPI being  explained to them.
YBS, on the other  hand,  says the mortgage application form Mr and Mrs H filled out had a section on 
it about  PPI which presented  them with various  choices. It says this would have shown Mr and Mrs H 
that they didnt need to have  PPI if they didnt  want to because  this section clearly demonstrated  that 
PPI was optional, not compulsory.
However, I find this a somewhat contradictory argument  because the section YBS refers to does 
indeed contain  a PPI choice, but the problem  is that neither Mr nor Mrs H ticked any of the relevant 
PPI boxes. This strongly indicates to me that they didnt want any PPI. If they had  they would have 
ticked the box asking for it. I note they both signed their mortgage application with no PPI being  
requested or consented to.
YBS said in its final response letter to Mr and Mrs H that this was a branch sale. But thats not right 
because it later also says the PPI was sold during a phone  call about  three weeks after the mortgage 
application was signed. I note YBS says Mr H rang to ask for PPI but I see no evidence to say thats 
right either.  Theres no audio recording of the call or call-handling scripts  which would  show how PPI 
was normally sold over the phone. And theres nothing that credibly points to him ringing YBS, rather 
than the other  way around.
Nevertheless, handwritten  notes were sent to us of this apparent call. They  arent signed  and so I 
cant see anything that shows me if, or why, Mr and Mrs H had apparently changed their minds by 
deciding to add PPI after all.
Ive gone on to look at all the other documents YBS sent in, including  the PPI schedule and other 
documents that would tend to suggest  PPI was sold to Mr H. But theres  no dispute PPI was sold. Mr 
and Mrs H say they didnt ask for it and thought all the costs they were  paying related wholly to their 
mortgage. 
Ref: DRN46124444So Im not sure if they were specifically  looking out for additional charges  or whether they even 
understood what this type of insurance was for. I also note the description of the outgoing monthly 
PPI charges on Mr and Mrs Hs bank account didnt comprehensively show that they had PPI. In my 
view, it would  have been easy to mistake  the description  as being for something completely 
unconnected.
Those selling  these types of policy had a duty to obtain the consent of the consumer(s) before adding 
PPI. YBS doesnt appear to have done this because the signed  and therefore most  reliable - 
document we have, strongly implies no PPI was being asked for. 
In short, YBS hasnt shown  me where  it properly obtained Mr and Mrs Hs consent. Im therefore 
currently intending  to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN4612444