K820x#14Complaint
Miss M complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (Halifax) mis-sold her a mortgage endowment.
She says it wasnt suitable for her needs  and Halifax told her it would pay off her borrowing
and leave her with excess savings.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision in August 2020,  setting  out the background to the case  and 
what I was minded to conclude:
In 1991, Miss M took out an interest-only  mortgage  with a mortgage-endowment 
policy to repay the capital  borrowing.  The lending was provided by Halifax and the 
endowment was provided by a company Ill call S. Miss M redeemed the mortgage 
and surrendered the endowment in 2008.  She says this was because  she moved 
abroad and rented out the house.
In May 2019, Miss M contacted our service  to say shed complained to Halifax  about 
the sale of her mortgage endowment. We contacted Halifax and it issued a final 
response in September 2019,  as well as a follow-up response in October 2019. In 
these, Halifax said it thought S was responsible for the sale.  Our investigator  
contacted Miss M to see how shed like to proceed. He then treated this case  about 
Halifax as a mortgage mis-sale complaint   and set up a case against S about the 
mortgage endowment.
Our investigator didnt  think we could consider this case due to the time limits that 
apply to using  our service.  He said it was more than six years  since  the mortgage 
was sold, and more  than three years since Miss M should have known her cause  for 
complaint. She disagreed, citing the difficult circumstances shed faced over the 
years. Our investigator didnt think exceptional circumstances had prevented her 
from complaining in time. So the case was referred to me for a decision.
On reviewing the case I discovered  that, when wed contacted  Miss M about how 
shed like to proceed  in October  2019, shed told us she was complaining  that Halifax 
mis-sold her the mortgage endowment. The usual remedy in mortgage  endowment  
complaints involves a calculation  that looks at whether  the customer would have 
been better off if theyd  been sold a repayment  mortgage instead  which Miss M 
thinks she should have  been. I contacted Miss M to clarify her concerns. She 
confirmed that she had wanted  us  and still did want us  to look into her mortgage  
endowment complaint about Halifax. She thought  it should take responsibility for the 
sale.
Ive made  Halifax aware of this. Ive also explained  to both sides  that, due to the 
different time limits that apply to mortgage  endowment complaints, it wasnt raised  
too late for us to consider.  Halifax  has accepted this. And both sides have agreed 
that Ill make  a provisional decision on the merits of Miss Ms mortgage endowment 
complaint about  Halifax.
My provisional findings
Ref: DRN48845302Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not minded to 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
The endowment was sold almost thirty years ago and surrendered  over ten years  
ago. So, unsurprisingly,  the information available about how it was sold is limited and 
unclear. I must therefore base my decision on the balance of probabilities  i.e. 
whats more likely to have  happened.
In order to uphold  this complaint, Id need  to find its more likely than not that Halifax  
mis-sold the endowment. The first step to reaching that conclusion would be to find 
that Halifax was responsible for the sale. If the endowment was sold by another  
business, then whether  or not there  were  errors  made during the sale (such  as 
misadvising Miss M about what it would  provide  and not giving her suitable advice) I 
cant hold Halifax at fault for these  meaning  I cant uphold  the complaint.
So, Ive reviewed the information I have  about who sold the endowment.  Halifax  
originally thought it was sold by S, due to the relationship those  companies  had at the 
time of Miss Ms sale. When we contacted S, it provided some archived commission 
records capturing the basic details from Miss Ms sale. These include an internal 
code which  S has shown links to an independent  financial adviser  (IFA) it worked 
with from May 1990 to August  2006.  The records appear to show that S paid 
commission to this IFA for Miss Ms sale. Miss M has been provided with the details 
of the IFA.
Taking this into account, Im currently not persuaded that Halifax  is responsible for 
the sale. The records dont show any indication that Halifax conducted or had 
responsibility for this. And we know IFAs  sometimes operating from within  banks  
sold endowments  at the time. Although it provided the lending, Ss records  suggest 
its unlikely Halifax was responsible for the advice  Miss M received or what  she was 
told about what shed  get from the endowment.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Miss M. But, based on what  Ive seen  so far, 
Im not minded  to uphold this complaint.
I invited both sides to respond before I made my final decision. Halifax said it had nothing  to 
add. But Miss M said she wanted  to take the complaint further. She provided some more  
information about the difficult circumstances  shed faced over the years  and asked for 
these to be considered.  She also said she wasnt given enough information to make  an 
informed, balanced  decision  during  the sale.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision.
Ive seen and considered  all the information Miss M has provided about  her circumstances. 
Im very sorry to hear about  the difficulties shes faced. These seem to have been put 
forward as exceptional  circumstances  for why we should consider the complaint. I confirm 
that we are considering the complaint, as Ive found that its within  our jurisdiction. But, 
having considered everything, I havent  found grounds to award the redress  shes  seeking.
Ref: DRN48845303Miss M says wasnt given adequate information during the sale. But as my provisional 
decision explained, even  if I accept her allegation,  it doesnt have a bearing on my 
conclusion. Thats because I dont consider  it more  likely than not that Halifax was 
responsible for the sale. I havent  been  provided with any further  evidence  about whos 
responsible for the sale following my provisional decision. So, my finding on this point  that, 
on balance of probabilities, Halifax isnt responsible for the sale  hasnt changed. That 
means, even if the policy was mis-sold,  Im not persuaded Halifax  is at fault for this. 
For these reasons, having considered  the responses to my provisional decision alongside 
everything else, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.  I realise this will be disappointing 
for Miss M. I hope what Ive said helps her understand  why Ive reached  this decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 October  2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4884530