K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Mrs A complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1993 Mr B and Mrs A took out a mortgage. The bank recommended  they also take out 
PPI to protect their total repayments.
The PPI covered Mr B only.  It cost just under £10 a month and would probably have paid out 
about £200 a month  for up to 12 months if Mr B made a successful claim.
Mr B says he had good sick pay at the time, and says he and Mrs A were told they had to 
buy the PPI if they wanted the mortgage.  Mr B and Mrs A think  the bank was wrong  to sell 
them the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr B and Mrs A disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr B and Mrs As case.  Ive decided not to uphold  
Mr B and Mrs As complaint and Ive set out below my reasons for this.
Mr B and Mrs As main  concern is that they thought they had to have the PPI. Mr B says 
they were only given costs that included the PPI and assumed it was an integral part of the 
mortgage.
Lloyds doesnt  have all the paperwork for either  the mortgage or the PPI. But this isnt 
surprising given the sale took place  nearly  25 years ago and the mortgage ended in 2000. I 
wouldnt expect either Mr B and Mrs A or Lloyds  to keep paperwork  indefinitely.  So Ive 
based my decision  on the evidence  I do have  and what  I think  is most likely to have 
happened.
Lloyds sent us a copy  of the mortgage application from the time. Although its not a good 
copy, I have seen a lot of these forms, and Im satisfied the part about  PPI had both yes 
and no boxes   suggesting  there was a choice about buying it. Furthermore, there was 
then a separate application form for the PPI, which  also had to be completed.
I can also see that the PPI was set up to cover Mr B only. That suggests a conversation  took 
place about the PPI at the time and it was tailored to suit Mr B and Mrs As needs. Thats 
what Lloyds normally did, and I cant see any reason why it would treat Mr B and Mrs A 
differently.
Ive seen the mortgage offer Mr B and Mrs A received,  and theres no mention  of PPI on 
that. The offer does  say Mr B and Mrs A have to have both buildings insurance and life 
Ref: DRN45198032assurance. Both of those things were  often compulsory when Mr B and Mrs A took out their 
mortgage  so its possible this is what Mr B and Mrs A recall.
Overall, I think Lloyds  most likely gave Mr B and Mrs A enough information for them  to know
the PPI was optional, despite their recollections.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B and Mrs A. This means  that it needed to ensure that it 
met their needs. From what I know of Mr B and Mrs As circumstances at the time,  I think the 
policy was suitable  for them.
Mr B was eligible  for the policy, and it doesnt look like hed have been  affected by 
any of the significant  limitations  or exclusions of the cover,  such as those relating to 
pre-existing medical conditions. The banks records show  Mrs A as earning 
significantly less than Mr B, so the split seems appropriate. 
Mr B says he would  have received good sick pay if he couldnt work. But this policy 
would pay on top of these benefits and for considerably longer than Mr B would get 
his full salary. A mortgage is a big commitment, and I think Mr B and Mrs A would 
have had some use for the policy. 
I dont know exactly when Mr B and Mrs A were  told what  the PI would  cost.  Mr B 
says it was included  in the mortgage  payment, so its likely that was in the meeting. I 
dont know if this was the case.  Whether  the PPI was included or not, I think Mr B 
and Mrs A would  have known it cost something. The policy  was competitively priced  
and apparently affordable, and I dont think when  Mr B and Mrs A first knew  the cost 
affected their decision to buy the PPI. Theres no suggestion  the PPI wouldnt  cover 
the mortgage payments in the event of a claim.
Its possible that Lloyds could have provided  more information about  the policy, 
particularly in regard  to the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr B wasnt affected by any 
of these things  at the time, so I dont  think that more  information  would  have caused  
them to change their mind about buying  the policy. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs A to   
accept or reject my decision  before  13 July 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4519803