K820x#14complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the settlement  offered to her under her home insurance by Royal & 
Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) following  her claim for a lost wedding  ring.
background
In September  2018 Mrs S made a claim to RSA for the loss of a wedding ring. She 
submitted the details  online but contends that she had already been  given authority  over the 
phone to go out and buy a replacement.  She purchased  this from the same jeweller who had 
supplied the original ring. She paid £825, and claimed £675, after deduction  of the excess of 
£150.
RSA assessed  the claim and agreed  to pay for a replacement ring to the value of what  Mrs S 
had already purchased. Like many policies the terms allowed RSA to replace the lost item or 
pay, if the policy holder request it, a cash value for a replacement  to be bought.  As RSA is 
able to negotiate better rates with its suppliers the cash sum offered was £485.25 cash  (the 
cost to it from its suppliers) or a gift voucher for £675, the actual cost less the £150 excess. 
Mrs S was unhappy with this as she said shed been  told she was covered for up to £1,000  
and had been assured  she could purchase a replacement.  She also said she hadnt received 
any policy details so was unaware of the term enabling RSA to pay a lower  cash payment. 
RSA said it had no record of any initial phone call, the first it was aware of the claim was 
when Mrs S submitted  it online. In any event it wouldnt advise a customer  to buy a 
replacement before the claim had been  submitted.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator thought  that RSA had acted reasonably within  the 
policy terms and conditions.
Mrs S remained unhappy  and the matter  has been  passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is first of all clear  that under the terms of the policy RSA is entitled to pay a lower payment 
for a cash  settlement. This because  it can obtain  discounts from its supplier so the cost to it 
of a £675 gift card is £483.25, which is what it offered Mrs S for a cash  payment. The 
relevant term is 
Where  we can offer repair or replacement  through a preferred supplier  but we agree to pay
our customer a cash settlement, the payment will normally not exceed the amount we
would have paid our preferred supplier.
The question in this case is whether  it is fair for RSA to apply that term. Firstly I think it has 
fairly assessed the value of the claim.  Mrs S wasnt able to supply any photos  of her wearing 
the ring nor any other  evidence (save for a description of the ring).  So it assessed the claim 
on the basis of the cost of the replacement  ring.
Mrs S says that she was told by RSA that she could  go out and purchase  a new ring on  a 
like for like basis  for up to £1,000.  RSA has no trace of such call and says it would  never 
advise a customer to replace  any lost items  until the claim was made and fully assessed. I 
Ref: DRN46549632note that Mrs S did make a claim online. Whilst I can understand that details of the cover 
might have been given to Mrs S (ie that she was covered  for up to £1,000)  it doesnt seem  
likely that she would  have  been  given authority to purchase a replacement  without the claim 
being assessed.
Mrs S also says she never received a policy booklet so wasnt aware of the term, which  she 
thinks is very unfair. All I can say is that Mrs S was sent a renewal letter in December 2017. 
Its clear from that letter that a new policy booklet isnt sent out every year, although the 
letter invites  the policyholder to get in touch if a new one is required. The letter also indicates  
that the policy schedule had been  revised  following Mrs Ss then recent contact with RSA.
I dont think that it was necessary to draw this term to Mrs Ss attention  before she bought 
(or renewed) the policy. I think it likely that a similar term would be found  in most ordinary 
home policies. So even if she had been  made  aware of the term, I think  it unlikely that she 
would have been able to find a policy that didnt have a similar  term.
My conclusion is that, in the absence of any evidence that Mrs S was told differently in a 
phone call, I think it was fair for RSA to apply its policy terms. These are standard in home 
insurance policies  and allowed it to settle Mrs Ss claim in the way that it has. If she wants to 
accept the offer, either  of cash  or a gift card, Mrs S should get in touch with RSA direct.   
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4654963