K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) hasnt done enough when  
his account was used for fraudulent purposes, without his knowledge. 
background
Mr R had an account with NatWest. I understand he opened it in 2017 and made  use of it 
and the overdraft facility provided. However, this wasnt his main account  and he hadnt used 
it for a while;  hed also entered into an arrangement to clear the overdraft. As at 21 May 
2018, the account had a debit of balance  of £454.81, which Mr R was repaying. 
On 31 May and 1 June  2018, the account  received £5,220 from three lenders. Over the next 
few days, money  was spent from the account: online transfers out were made, and ATM 
withdrawals carried out. This left the account  in a debit balance  of over £2,000 as at 19 June 
2018, when NatWest wrote to Mr R to tell him it was withdrawing banking  facilities and 
closing his account.  
I have set out a table  below of the transactions in question. The dates will differ  from those 
on Mr Rs bank statements as sometimes transactions can take days to show. Mr R will note 
I have also anonymised who credits were  received  from,  and payments made to. 
Date Type Description Withdrawn Credit balance
21/5/2018 Existing balance -£454.81
31/5/2018 Automated credit Lender 1 £3,500
31/5/2018 Automated credit Lender 2 £1,000
31/5/2018 ATM £300
31/5/2018 POS Tourist attraction £20.00 
31/5/2018 POS Tourist Attraction £14.70 
1/6/2018 Automated credit Lender 3 £720
1/6/2018 ATM £300
1/6/2018 Card transaction Money remitter £2,503.99 
1/6/2018 Card transaction Money remitter £1,877.99
2/6/2018 ATM £40 
4/6/2018 online M GF £7.00
5/6/2018 Online credit MMH £10
5/6/2018 Online credit MMH £15
5/6/2018 Online M H B £10
5/6/2018 Online M H B £13.50
7/6/2018 Online M H B £1,450
7/6/2018 Online M H B £31.00
7/6/2018 Online U J £90
7/6/2018 Online M GF £8.00
7/6/2018 ATM £300
7/6/2018 Debit interest £4.36
12/7/2018 Debit interest £3.15 -£2,183.50
24/7/2018 POS/Switch Money Remitter £1,877.99 -£305.51
Mr R contacted the bank on receipt of the account  closure notification, and it was at this time 
he says he realised he had been the victim of fraud. He said he never carried  out any of the 
transactions which occurred from 31 May and also realised he no longer had the card for the 
Ref: DRN42422592account. He believes  this may have been  stolen on a day out, as some of the disputed  
spending occurred  in the same place. He complained to NatWest  who were  satisfied  it 
hadnt done anything wrong  in relation to the account closure, and it looked into the fraud.  A 
few weeks later a refund  was applied to Mr Rs account which  brought  it to a debit balance  of 
£305.51. Mr R believed  this had been  as a result of NatWests fraud investigation. 
Mr R set about contacting the lenders about the borrowing, which  he says he never  applied  
for. However, as NatWest had received a refund, some of the lenders  wanted the funds  
returned to them as part of that process. NatWest  ultimately declined Mr Rs fraud case and 
stuck to its outcome  when  Mr R complained about it. So Mr R asked us to look into the 
matter. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Rs complaint. In summary, he concluded that the 
payments into and out of the account  werent  indicative  of fraud;  the payments out had all 
been authenticated using  Mr Rs correct  security credentials and payment instrument; and 
as Mr R has said he never shared  his details, wrote them  down, kept them in his phone, etc, 
there was no point of compromise where  a fraudster could  have gained  any of the security  
details needed  to carry out the transactions. And so he was satisfied Mr R also consented to 
them. 
Mr R disagreed with the outcome reached. In summary, he has said:
Some of the transactions in the investigators  view didnt  match his statements and 
questioned these. 
The transaction to the money remitter of £1,877.99  was reversed on 23 July 2018. As 
this was six weeks after the transaction, he considers this is evidence that NatWest 
realised fraud had occurred and took action. However, it only did the bare minimum 
and didnt look at all of the fraudulent activity. He was left to deal with the lenders. 
He questions why he would frequently log into an account he doesnt  use. If there are 
almost daily logins  to the account, this wasnt him and he has had his internet 
hacked. There are lots of outstanding questions about the transactions  which  need  to 
be investigated further. 
He doesnt  accept that a fraudster wouldnt consistently log into an account  and not 
make transactions; a fraudster could wait to see when money was credited to the 
account and then steal that. He says going  through the effort of stealing  someones 
details and hacking someones  account  would be pointless unless they got some 
financial gain. Seeing the account is unused is the perfect  opportunity to use the 
account as the basis  for identity fraud and more financial gain. He considers a 
fraudster would  keep  transactions random and therefore unnoticed, to remain  
undetected. 
He questions whether  there have been  any password changes  or PIN changes, 
which he has never done. He has never had a card reader  for the account,  and so 
couldnt have  carried out the transaction that required  that. And other transactions 
are to people he has never heard of  for example M GF, when he has a wife  or at 
times when he was at work. 
He was at a tourist attraction on 29 May 2018,  not 31 May. As he didnt authorise any 
of the transactions, he shouldnt be held liable for them. 
The investigator clarified that:
Ref: DRN42422593NatWest didnt refund the transaction of £1,877.99 nor did it request the money  
remitter to refund it. 
Some of the transactions previously referred  to by him, were him misinterpreting the 
data provided (its the transactions listed above which  took place).
There have been no requests for new PINs or changes in security credentials  for the 
account. 
Any NatWest card reader can be used to transact but it still requires the online  
banking code which is unique to the customer. 
Mr R remained  unhappy as he considers attempted transactions  are indicative of fraud. He 
feels the investigation has been biased towards the bank and asked for the matter to be 
reviewed further. 
Other relevant information
Lender 2 and 3 have  both written off the loans applied for through them. 
The loan taken  out through lender 1 is subject to a complaint with this office. 
We attempted to contact the money remitter  about the refunded payment, but it 
hasnt responded  to us (as a third party it is not required to, and neither can we 
compel it to do so without a court  order).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators  rules,  guidance  and standards, the codes of practice;  and, 
where relevant,  what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant times.
I know Mr R is very unhappy about  whats happened.  Although I have only summarised 
whats happened above, I have considered everything provided. 
I accept that three loans  were taken out in his name with three different lenders. Any 
concerns that Mr R has with how those  loans were approved and whether  he is being held 
liable for them is not something  I can consider here.  I can only consider NatWests actions  
that is, whether  NatWest  acted unfairly or unreasonably in not treating this as fraud. 
The events complained of took place in May 2018, so of particular  relevance  to my 
decision are the Payment Services Regulations  2017 (PSRs)  which  apply to 
transactions like the ones  made from Mr Rs account. Ive considered the relevant 
provisions of the PSRs  alongside the contractual terms  and conditions  of Mr Rs account.
Taking those into account there are two key questions  relevant to my consideration:
1.Were the transactions authorised by Mr R; and
2.If they werent, did Mr R fail with intent  or gross  negligence  to comply with 
his obligations  under the PSRs, to comply with the terms and conditions 
of the account,  or to keep the personalised security details and payment 
instruments safe?
If I find Mr R made, or otherwise authorised the transactions, I dont need to consider 
Ref: DRN42422594point 2 above.
Mr Rs account had a debit balance of just over £450 which  he was in the process of 
repaying. On 31 May and 1 June 2018  three  lenders credited  Mr Rs account with just over 
£5,200. NatWest wouldnt have known that lenders were going to credit Mr Rs account. And 
credits from regulated lenders, of themselves, wouldnt  ordinarily be a cause for concern 
such that I think NatWest ought  to have been alerted to possible fraud.   
There were several transactions from Mr Rs account over the coming days.  These were a 
combination of online transfers to other  accounts, card transactions and cash withdrawals at 
ATMs. NatWests  records show that all of those transactions were made using Mr Rs card 
for the account,  or online. They were also all made  using Mr Rs correct  security credentials 
 including  passwords and PINs etc. 
That the correct  security credentials were used to carry out the transactions  means  the 
payments were authenticated. But authentication alone isnt enough  to find that Mr R 
consented to the transactions  taking  place. So I have  gone on to consider this carefully. 
Mr R has submitted that he hasnt used  this account for a while. And I accept  that to be the 
position; aside  from a recent payment  agreement  Mr R had reached at the time, there  was 
very little activity on the account in the months leading  up to the transactions in question. 
Indeed, I note that it was many months  before that, that Mr R had needed  to enter  his PIN 
for a transaction on the account. 
Mr R has told us that he didnt realise the card for the account was missing  until he found out 
about the disputed transactions on his account. However, as he was on a day out at a place 
where some of the disputed transactions took place, he has suggested  the card might  have 
been stolen then. I do accept this is a possibility. But it doesnt strike me as likely. Mr R has 
previously told us that he is very careful about his PIN, he shields his hands  at ATMs, hasnt 
shared it with anyone, nor is it written  down or stored anywhere. Even  if I accepted the card 
was stolen on the day out, this doesnt  explain how an opportunistic thief knew  his PIN in 
order to carry out several transactions. 
Mr R has also told us that he hasnt  shared  any of his online banking or security information 
or recorded this anywhere. So this means  there  is also no explanation  for how a fraudster 
would have known  Mr Rs correct  bank details for the loans to be paid into, or the correct 
processes and security  credentials for payments  to be made  online.   Again Mr R has made a 
suggestion that he might have been  hacked. But he hasnt provided any evidence  to show  
he was actually hacked. And it isnt clear if Mr R thinks  the opportunistic thief who stole his 
card and the hacker are one and the same, which would be highly coincidental; particularly 
as gaining one set of details wouldnt give access to the other  that is, having  a stolen bank 
card wouldnt  provide online security credentials, for example.
Its clear that whoever  carried  out the transactions had access  to all of Mr Rs security  
credentials to enable the different transactions to be made. In the absence of any plausible  
explanation for how an alleged fraudster  came by Mr Rs banking security  credentials, I find 
the most  likely explanation is the transactions were carried  out by Mr R, or someone he 
authorised to do so on his behalf. This means I find Mr R consented to them.  
In reaching this conclusion, Ive borne  in mind that:
Fraudsters do not typically take a wait and see approach or wait to use an account 
Ref: DRN42422595for fraudulent purposes. Such actions would  leave them open to being caught. In our 
experience fraudsters will take every opportunity to use an account  for as much and 
as quickly as they can. 
Although fraudsters have been  known to take loans  out in others  names and put 
them into their accounts, any funds are usually transferred  out again immediately. 
Here the loans credited Mr Rs account on 31 May and 1 June. Although some large 
transactions took place on 1 June 2018, even leaving a transfer for this long is not 
typical fraudulent behaviour. And putting  this to one side,  that still left a substantial  
sum in the account that was paid out over the next few days. This would mean the 
fraudster left a substantial sum in the account,  which could easily have  been  
discovered by the account holder (or the bank) and the fraudsters attempts 
thwarted. Again  this isnt typical behaviour for a fraudster. 
As well as payments  being made  out of the account, two payments were  credited into 
it. I accept these  were for small sums.  But given the circumstances here, I can see 
no plausible reason for a fraudster to do this.  
As I have found the transactions were likely carried out by Mr R, or that he authorised  
someone to do so on his behalf, I dont find any basis on which  to say NatWest acted 
unfairly or unreasonably or could have done  any more in relation to this matter.  
I should say for completeness  that, even if I had found the transactions were  likely fraud, 
Mr R hasnt suffered a financial loss in relation  to his NatWest account. In fact, as a result of 
this matter, it seems Mr Rs account was actually  left in a better position than before the 
events complained of: the balance of his account was around  £150 better off. I appreciate  
that this wouldnt  help Mr R with his complaints about the lenders  (although  two of those are 
resolved); but whether  he is correctly being held liable for a loan taken out in his name is a 
matter for the lender  and not something I can hold NatWest accountable for.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2021.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4242259