K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that Admiral Markets UK Ltd incorrectly categorised him as an elective 
professional client,  even though he didnt meet the relevant  criteria.  This meant he was able 
to trade  with higher leverage, thereby  magnifying his trading  losses.  
background
Mr W had been a client of Admiral Markets since December 2017 and had a Contracts for 
Differences (CFD) trading account. 
On 10 August 2018 Mr W wrote to Admiral Markets and said that he wanted  to work again 
with a [leverage] of 1:500. He explained that to do this he needed to be classified as a 
professional client.  He explained  that he fulfilled the first criteria of 10 trades per quarter and 
that, whilst  he didnt  have  a portfolio of €500,000 or more, he had been working with CFDs 
and Forex for more  than two years and had traded very large amounts. 
On 22 August 2018 he received an acknowledgement of his request which  asked him to 
provide some supporting information.  Mr W didnt provide this information but Admiral 
Markets said it reviewed  his account  and trading activity and concluded  this substantiated 
Mr Ws assertions  in his email. 
Mr W was therefore required to fill out an online application which asked him to confirm  his 
experience in trading, the size of his portfolio and his level of knowledge and experience.  In 
this application  he confirmed:
He had traded leveraged products at an average frequency of 10 per quarter over the 
previous four quarters with the notional value of his orders  typically exceeding 
€20,000. 
The size of his portfolio exceeded  €500,000.
He worked or had worked in the financial sector for at least  one year in a professional  
position which required knowledge  of CFD and Forex trading. 
He confirmed he had the necessary knowledge  and experience to be classified as an 
elective professional client. 
And he also confirmed  that he read the warnings  about the protections hed be giving 
up as an Elective Professional Client. 
In September  Admiral  Markets changed  his account status from retail consumer to elective 
professional client  following  this assessment of his circumstances. Being treated as an 
elective professional client meant that, among other things, Mr W was trading with higher 
leverage than was available to retail  customers.  This essentially meant  that Mr W was able 
to open larger trades  with the same cash deposit than would otherwise have been possible. 
The ability to do this significantly  increased  both his possible profits  as well as possible 
losses. 
Between September 2018 and January 2019  Mr W traded on Admiral  Markets platform  and 
made losses of just over €33,000. In January 2019, Mr W complained. In short, he said that 
he was incorrectly classified as an elective professional client  and this had caused  him a 
financial loss. He estimated that had he carried out the same trading but with lower leverage, 
he would  have made losses of just under €2,000. So he asked Admiral Markets  to refund 
him the difference. 
Ref: DRN48344642I issued a provisional decision in September 2020.  In it I said:
Under the Conduct of Business Rules (COBS) 3.5.3 in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) handbook, a firm is entitled to treat a consumer as an elective professional client as 
long as certain criteria  are met. These  are:
(1)That the firm undertakes an adequate assessment of the expertise, experience and 
knowledge of the client that gives reasonable assurance, in light of the nature of the 
transaction or services envisaged, that the client is capable  of making  his own 
investment decisions  and understanding the risks involved (the qualitative test). 
(2)That in the course  of the assessment, at least two of the following criteria are 
satisfied:
(a)The client has carried out transactions, in significant size, on the relevant 
market at an average frequency of 10 per quarter over the previous four 
quarters.
(b)The size of the clients portfolio, defined as including cash deposits  and 
financial instruments, exceeds EUR  500,000. 
(c)The client works or has worked  in the financial sector  for at least  one year 
in a professional  position, which requires knowledge of the transactions or 
services envisaged  (the quantitative  test); 
Whilst the procedure  which  must  be followed once a client  has met some or all of the criteria 
above is set out in COBS 3.5.3(3), the way in which the assessment is carried  out is left to 
each provider to decide. 
The European Securities  and Markets Authority (ESMA) has provided guidance in the form 
of updated questions and answers on, among other issues, the principles which  should  
underpin the above assessment. 
Broadly speaking, the onus is on the business  to satisfy itself and carry out an adequate 
assessment. So ESMA has made it clear that whilst  firms clearly have discretion in 
determining what steps to take in carrying out this adequate assessment, they  should avoid 
relying solely on self-certification by the client and should consider obtaining further  evidence  
to support assertions that the client meets the relevant criteria.  Firms  should, depending on 
the circumstances, carry  out a more  thorough analysis of the clients  expertise, experience 
and knowledge,  even when the private investor  meets two of the criteria  and should not 
automatically accept  to treat as professional clients those who do meet two or more of these 
criteria.  
When considering  a private investors professional role, ESMA says investment firms  must 
ensure that the position was professional  in nature  and held in a field that allowed the client  
to acquire knowledge of the transactions or services envisaged. 
For these reasons, Im persuaded  that, overall, Admiral  Markets needed to do more than just 
allow Mr W to tick some boxes in order for it to be reasonably assured that he met the 
relevant criteria. 
And its clear  that Admiral Markets accepted this as well  because  when it acknowledged 
Mr Ws request  on 22 August 2018,  it informed him that his application had been reviewed, 
but hadnt yet been  rejected or confirmed. In fact Admiral Markets told him that his 
application was tending towards  being  rejected, but that the compliance department was 
awaiting a review for supporting documents that indicate that you meet the specified 
Ref: DRN48344643conditions. Admiral Markets therefore  asked Mr W to provide some supporting evidence, 
such as employment  statements, CV, payslips or proof of funds.
Following this email, my understanding is that Mr W didnt provide any additional information 
to Admiral Markets. However, on the basis of his account activity and his trading, Admiral  
Markets said that it was reasonably assured that he had sufficient experience,  knowledge 
and expertise to be able to make decisions in relation to CFDs and assess the associated  
risks as an elective professional client. It therefore required Mr W to fill out an online 
application form which asked him a number  of questions  but in my view, a reasonable 
assessment of the answers Mr W gave wouldve shown that there  were  contradictions. For 
example Mr W ticked yes to say he had a portfolio worth more than 500,000 Euros, when 
he had said in his original email to Admiral Markets that he didnt. He said he worked in a 
professional role related to CFDs,  but there was no evidence that this was the case   and 
Admiral Markets didnt probe or ask any further  information about the role or how long he 
had been in it. 
Ive seen no evidence  that Mr W did in fact have a professional role that was relevant to his 
trading  and Ive seen no evidence that he had a portfolio of the relevant size. So on the 
face of it, even if I accepted Mr W had traded  with the relevant frequency  and size in the 
previous 12 months,  he clearly didnt meet the other criteria. Therefore, Im currently  
persuaded the assessment was incorrect and Admiral Markets shouldnt  have reclassified  
Mr W as an elective professional client. 
The question is therefore whether Mr W, by virtue  of this incorrect assessment,  ought to be 
entitled to compensation. Ive considered this very carefully  Mr W has estimated that had 
he not traded using  the additional leverage, he wouldve incurred  losses  of just under 
€2,000, rather  than €33,000. Mr W has therefore claimed he should be compensated for the 
difference. 
My approach  to putting things right includes  establishing what  position Mr W would now be 
in had the business acted  correctly. In other words, in this case,  Mr W would not have been 
categorised as an elective professional client and would therefore  not have had the benefit 
of the additional leverage. 
However, my remit (set out in DISP  3.6.1)  also requires me to determine a complaint  by 
reference to what  is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case . 
In this case, Ive also taken into account the following factors:
Mr W wrote to Admiral  Markets,  of his own initiative, specifically asking for 
the possibility  of trading with additional  leverage.  
Mr W clearly had significant experience  in trading CFDs, and therefore 
would have fully understood the risks (and potential benefits) of his 
positions being exposed to higher leverage.  
Mr W was also fully aware that he needed  to be treated as a professional 
client in order to benefit from the above. His email  indicates  that he had 
some understanding of what the assessment required. 
Im persuaded Mr W answered  questions  in a way which  he knew would 
allow his application  to be successful. 
And, within about four months  of requesting to be classified  as a 
professional client,  and having  made significant  losses, Mr W complained 
about that classification. 
Ref: DRN48344644Im persuaded Mr W wanted  to trade  with higher  leverage because he was convinced  his 
trading strategy  would generate a profit for him  and that profit  would be magnified. And Im 
persuaded his experience as a trader also meant  that he fully understood the risks this 
additional leverage represented. And its likely he had already traded with much higher 
leverage in the past before restrictions to the leverage available  to retail customers were 
introduced by the regulatory authorities. Its not in dispute that Mr W made  all his own trading 
decisions and was fully aware of how to manage his own risk  including for example 
opening smaller positions or trading less. 
So Im satisfied that one of the causes Mr Ws financial losses  was his own actions and 
trading decisions.  This means that I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask 
Admiral Markets to fully compensate him for those.  
However, by incorrectly classifying Mr W, Admiral Markets clearly  provided an opportunity  
for those  losses to be greater than they otherwise would have been. The assessment set out 
in COBS is clear about the criteria which  need to be met before a retail  customer can be 
treated as an elective  professional client. And based on the evidence  Ive seen, Im currently  
satisfied that it ought to have been  clear  to Admiral Markets that Mr W did not, at the time, 
meet those requirements.  So I also dont consider it fair and reasonable that Mr W should 
bear all the financial  costs that arose,  at least in part, in consequence of this mistake.  
Given all these circumstances, and weighing up the factors above, I intend to ask Admiral 
Markets to:
Rework the trades Mr W placed  during the time he was a professional  client  with the 
leverage he wouldve  had available  as a retail  client (A). In Mr Ws case  I can see he 
exclusively traded one currency pair during  that time. 
Subtract A from the losses  Mr W actually incurred  this will give an amount 
equivalent to the losses Mr W wouldve incurred had he traded as a retail client (B). 
As Ive said above  however, Mr W contributed to his losses by:
Trading in the way he did  those  trading  decisions  are what  ultimately  caused  his 
trades to lose money and he was solely responsible for those. He was also fully 
aware of the risks he was incurring by trading with higher leverage.
Giving incorrect information  about  the size of his portfolio or that he had a relevant 
professional role in order to be classified as an elective professional client. 
For these reasons, I consider Admiral Markets  should only refund 75% of B to Mr W. And I 
dont consider it should add any amount of interest or compensation for trouble and upset. 
Both parties  accepted my findings  but Admiral Markets asked a clarificatory question about 
the redress. Ive therefore  amended this below.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties accepted  my provisional 
findings, I see no reason  to depart  from my provisional conclusions. I therefore confirm  those 
as final, and have  reproduced them above.  
Ref: DRN48344645For the reasons  I gave  in my provisional decision,  and which Im confirming in this final 
decision, Admiral Markets must pay compensation to Mr W. 
Admiral Markets must:
Rework the trades Mr W placed  during the time he was a professional  client  with the 
leverage he wouldve  had available  as a retail  client (A). In Mr Ws case  I can see he 
exclusively traded one currency pair during  that time. 
Subtract A from the losses  Mr W actually incurred  this will give an amount 
equivalent to the additional  losses Mr W incurred trading as a professional client (B). 
As Ive said above  however, Mr W contributed to his losses by:
Trading in the way he did  those  trading  decisions  are what  ultimately  caused  his 
trades to lose money and he was solely responsible for those. He was also fully 
aware of the risks he was incurring by trading with higher leverage.
Giving incorrect information  about  the size of his portfolio or that he had a relevant 
professional role in order to be classified as an elective professional client. 
For these reasons, I consider Admiral Markets  should only refund 75% of B to Mr W. And I 
dont consider it should add any amount of interest or compensation for trouble and upset. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint. Admiral Markets  UK Ltd must  pay the 
compensation Ive outlined  above within 28 days of when we tell it Mr W has accepted this 
final decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2020.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4834464