K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  mis-sold  her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss R took out a personal loan with Nationwide in 2002. At the same time she was sold a 
PPI policy  which wouldve covered the repayments  on her loan for up to 12 months at a time 
if she was made redundant, or for up to the remaining term of the loan if she was too ill to 
work. 
Miss R says the terms and conditions  werent properly explained and that she didnt need 
the cover.
The adjudicator thought  that Miss Rs complaint should be upheld  because Nationwide  didnt 
explain an important term which affected Miss R. Nationwide  disagrees,  so the complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im upholding Miss Rs complaint. 
Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Nationwide didnt make  a personal  recommendation  to Miss R about  the policy, so it didnt 
need to check  that it was right for her. But it did need to make sure it gave Miss R enough 
information about the policy so she could make her own decision.
Miss R has told this service she had an existing medical condition when she took out the 
policy. This would  have been excluded  from cover under the policy, and I dont think 
Nationwide made  this clear enough  to Miss R. I think  if Nationwide  had made  this clear that 
Miss R wouldnt  have  bought the policy, because it wouldnt have covered the condition she 
wouldve thought  most  likely to stop her from working.
Nationwide says that Miss R didnt  tell it about this condition  when it first spoke to her about 
her complaint. Understandably  Nationwide have since queried  why Miss R didnt mention the 
condition. And its also suggested  that the condition may not have been serious enough for 
Miss R to have chosen not to take the policy had she known it wouldve been excluded from 
cover. 
We asked Miss R for more  information  about her condition  and how it affected her. She 
responded with clear  and detailed information  about  the consultant who treated her and the 
medication she was taking. The condition was chronic, although stable as a result  of the 
treatment she received. Miss R explains that the condition had long periods of quiescence 
and occasional flares.  This is entirely  consistent with this condition which can also be 
unpredictable  potentially leading to further  complications which  can be life changing.  
I am satisfied that Miss R suffered from the condition before the sale of the PPI.
Ref: DRN43176562 Miss R says she didnt think to disclose it [to Nationwide]. I may not have perceived it to be 
relevant or pose  a risk to my employment as Id had a medical  screening  in order  to work [for 
my employer], although I think shes referring to the point of sale, rather  than to the 
investigation of her complaint. 
Ive thought carefully about this, because  it could indicate that even if Miss R had understood 
the exclusion that it wouldnt have changed her mind about buying the PPI. But I think  Miss 
R is speculating on a potential answer to a scenario which didnt happen  Miss R wasnt  
asked at the point of sale about whether she had a medical condition. While she now says,  
some 17 years later, that she might not have been worried  about her employment  as a result  
of her condition, I dont think this is a reliable indicator of how she would  have reacted had 
she clearly understood  at the point of sale that her condition, and any consequences of it, 
would not be covered.
Im satisfied, given the potential severity and unpredictability of Miss Rs condition,  that had 
she understood she wouldnt be covered for it, she wouldnt  have bought the policy.
So I think Miss R lost out as a result of something  Nationwide did wrong.
putting things right
Nationwide should  put Miss R in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI. 
Nationwide should:
Pay Miss R the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Miss R made a successful  claim  under  the PPI policy, Nationwide  can take off what  
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Miss R a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
Im upholding Miss Rs complaint and direct Nationwide Building  Society  to pay 
compensation as described above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4317656