K820x#14complaint
Miss R and Mr W say Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold  them payment protection  insurance  (PPI). 
background
Miss R and Mr W took out a PPI policy at the same  time as they applied  for a mortgage  in 
2006 in one of the banks branches. When they took out a further advance in 2007 they also 
took out PPI to protect the additional  repayments.  The cover  gave  them accident, sickness  
and unemployment  cover. They  paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Miss R and Mr W 
disagreed so the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Miss R and Mr W that the PPI was optional  and they had to 
agree to take it out. 
I cant know what was discussed in the meetings but Ive thought carefully about 
Miss R and Mr Ws comments and looked  at the paperwork from the sales. On both their 
2006 and 2007 mortgage loan agreements it said You are not required to take out any 
insurance through C&G  as a condition of this mortgage and it made clear only buildings 
insurance was a condition of the borrowing. Both agreements  listed the cost of PPI 
separately under the heading Optional Insurance. Miss R and Mr W also completed and 
signed a separate PPI application form and direct debit mandate for each sale. So, overall, I 
think Lloyds made it clear that the PPI was optional and Miss R and Mr W chose to take it 
out. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss R and Mr W so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances in 2006  and 2007, I think that 
it was. Miss R told us she was entitled to six months  full pay and six months half pay if she 
was sick and Mr W was entitled to statutory sick pay. But the PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to any work benefits  and for up to 12 months for each successful claim. Miss R says 
they could always  rely on each  others  salary, but that isnt suitable alternative protection. Its 
not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change.
They were  borrowing quite large  sums over a long period,  secured on their home. And the 
effects of not keeping  up the repayments could have been serious for them.  So, overall,  I 
think the PPI would have been  useful for Miss R and Mr W if they were  sick or lost their 
job(s). 
Ref: DRN48850042Its possible Lloyds didnt  give Miss R and Mr W all the information they needed before 
deciding to buy PPI. The cost was clear on both mortgage loan agreements and the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. But I dont know  that the bank pointed  out all 
the main things the policy didnt cover. 
Mr W doesnt appear to have been affected  by any of the main  exclusions. Miss R told us 
she had a pre-existing medical condition that was diagnosed around 1991/92. But she 
wasnt under  medical supervision or taking medication for it at the time of the sale.  Shes 
said she hadnt needed to see a registered  practitioner since  it was initially diagnosed. So 
from what shes told us I dont think it affected  her day-to-day life such  that it was something 
she would  have expected to need  to be able to claim for. This means I dont think  she would 
have made  a different decision with better information, or advice,  on the exclusion for 
pre-existing medical conditions. 
Also, the Statement of Demands and Needs that was completed for the 2007 sale shows  
that Miss R and Mr W ticked boxes confirming a) that whilst Miss R was aware of a health 
problem, she hadnt seen a qualified health  professional about it in the 12 months prior to the 
sale, and b) that the advisor had told her that if it recurred within  the first 24 months of the 
policy she might  not be covered. So she knew this when  they bought the policy.  This 
supports my conclusion that her condition wasnt something she expected to need to make a 
claim for. The policy would have covered all other  qualifying sickness claims, and Miss R 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of the other main exclusions.
So overall I dont  think better information  about the cover wouldve changed their mind about  
buying it.
It follows I dont think Miss R and Mr W have  lost out because of any problems with these 
two sales. I know Miss R and Mr W asked  about  another case  with a different outcome, but I 
can only comment here on this complaint and its individual  merits. 
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss R and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4885004