K821x#15Complaint
Mr Y complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled  a claim under his home 
insurance policy.
Background
In September  2017 Mr Y had a water leak in his house and called Aviva to fix it. Aviva  
contracted a firm of builders, X, to repair the leak and the damage. Mr Ys family moved out 
to stay with other family members for the duration  of the work. There were  issues with delays 
and the quality of Xs work,  and it wasnt completed until May 2018.
Whilst the works were  being completed Aviva  paid Mr Y a daily allowance  to cover  
accommodation costs.  They  offered  a local hotel. However, Mr Y chose to stay with family in 
another area.
After moving back in, a second leak occurred as a result of damage  caused by X, and Mr Y 
and his family had to move out again. They decided to stay with the same family member.  
And this time Aviva paid them a higher daily allowance. Aviva  also agreed  Mr Y could find 
his own builder and covered  the cost of the rectification works. 
Mr Y complained to Aviva about  the quality of the original works and the delays in their 
completion. And about X and the further  damaged  caused by Xs negligence. Aviva  
accepted responsibility and offered £800 in compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience 
Mr Y had experienced.
Mr Y didnt think the amount of compensation reflected  the extent of the distress and 
inconvenience hed suffered. And he was also unhappy about the daily allowance  he got 
while he and his family were staying  away, and other costs involved. So, he brought a 
complaint to us.
The investigator felt the £800 in compensation was fair. And she also thought  what  Aviva 
had paid for additional building works  and accommodation expenses was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr Y doesnt  agree  with this view. He still doesnt think the level of compensation for distress  
and inconvenience  reflects the full impact  it had on him, including  the impact on his work. 
And he doesnt think the daily allowance he received  properly reflects the additional living 
and travel costs. So, the matter has been passed  to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 February  2020.  In my provisional decision, I said:
There is no dispute that the quality  of the work  of Avivas contractor X was poor, or that the 
second leak and ensuing damage  was caused by Xs negligence. And I have a great  deal of 
sympathy for the upheaval  the works  caused  Mr Y and his family. 
I wont repeat all the issues Mr Y faced,  but Id like to reassure him that I have reviewed the 
entire handling of the claim.  And Ive thought about  whether Aviva has done enough to put 
things right.
Having looked  at everything, I dont agree with the findings of the investigator, in that I think  
Aviva need  to pay more  compensation than they have already offered to Mr Y. I do however, 
Ref: DRN44535252think the daily allowance was fair and reasonable. Ive explained why I have come to this 
provisional decision below.
Alternative accommodation expenses (the daily allowance)
Aviva, on both occasions when the family had to move out, offered Mr Y accommodation in a 
local hotel. Mr Y preferred  to move the family  to stay with other family members away  from 
the local area. I can understand this, as its a practical move, providing additional family 
support. On the first occasion, Aviva offered Mr Y an allowance of £50 per day, which  I think  
is fair based on normal living expenses - if Mr Y and his family were  at home, theyd still 
have to buy food and pay bills. And while they maybe ate out more  or got more takeaways 
and no doubt  had to contribute for utilities etc, I think £50 was reasonable.
On the second  occasion  they had to move out Mr Y negotiated a rate of £100 per day. As 
Ive said, I think £50 is reasonable, so I think £100  is more  than reasonable. So, overall, Im 
satisfied that what  has been paid for the daily allowance is fair. I should note, that if any 
additional work causes or has caused Mr Y to move out again, then he will need to discuss 
this with Aviva, and I have not considered that as part of this complaint. 
Compensation
Having read Avivas file and Mr Ys account,  there can be little doubt  that Mr Y and his family  
have suffered a great deal of upheaval and distress as a result of the leaks in their home.  
However, whenever there is building or repair work required in a home,  there is always going 
to be some element  of disruption to normal  life. I need to decide what  level of compensation 
is due to acknowledge the disruption above  what could normally  be expected in these 
circumstances due to poor workmanship and problems caused by X. This is because Aviva 
is responsible, as they appointed X.
Once the first leak was discovered, Mr Y decided to move his family out of the home  to stay 
with family.  As I have said above,  I think this is an understandable move.  But this leak wasnt 
the fault of Aviva, so I cannot hold them responsible for the disruption caused to Mr Y and 
his family  having  to move out. I can see the repairs took some  time to complete, so there  
were delays which I think Aviva were responsible for. As I see it the original works should 
have been completed by mid to late November  without  any problems, and Mr Y and his 
family should have  been able to move  back in at this point.
Instead Mr Y had to deal with lots of problems,  albeit with the help and good support from 
Avivas loss adjuster,  and the family didnt move back  in until May. So, I think  Aviva  should 
pay a significant  amount  of compensation for both this delay, and also for the problems with 
the works,  which clearly  also caused  Mr Y a great  deal of additional distress  and 
inconvenience. 
Its obviously difficult to put a figure on how distressing and awkward  this all was for Mr Y. 
And, as Ive said, Mr Y did choose  to locate his family in another  area. But he wasnt  
expecting it to be for so long and his family is very young, plus he did have to come  back 
and forth to his home many more times  than should have been necessary. So, I think  Aviva  
should pay a substantial amount for the distress and inconvenience. 
In this case, I think the £800 Aviva has offered is the right amount for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr Y experienced as a result  of the problems with the work by X initially and 
the delays up to when he and his family  moved back into their home in May.
Ref: DRN44535253Once Mr Y and his family moved  back in, some more damage  was discovered that had been 
caused by Xs negligence and they had to move out again. As this damage was caused by 
X, Aviva are responsible for both the cost of the further repairs  and the distress and 
inconvenience this caused Mr Y. 
Mr Y had the option of a local hotel, or even renting a house  in the local area, but again he 
chose to move his family to stay with relatives. The move also coincided  with his eldest  child 
having to enrol  in school. Again, this is stressful at the best of times, but being in the middle 
of building  works and moving must  have  made  it doubly so. However, Mr Y chose to move 
his family  away from the area, when there were local options available,  so I dont think Aviva  
are responsible for the distress and inconvenience  Mr Y experienced as a result of this. But I 
do think theyre responsible for the distress  and inconvenience Mr Y experienced as a result  
of having to move out of their home  for a second  time for a further month  or so, at a worrying  
and difficult time close to when his eldest child was due to start school. Especially, as this 
shouldnt have been necessary at all. I think this in itself warrants a substantial award. I think 
£500 is appropriate. 
Mr Y has also raised the matter of his loss of earnings, as a result of the damage  and his 
having to supervise the works. He said that working from home was difficult  and he lost out 
on a contract as a result. Again, I sympathise with him, but he chose not to take up the 
option of alternative  local accommodation, which I think would most likely have made doing 
his work  easier.  He was also asked to supply  evidence to show  his lost earnings but has 
been unable  to do so. So, I dont think it would  be fair and reasonable to hold Aviva 
responsible for any income Mr Y lost.  
So, in conclusion, I dont  think  Aviva has offered enough in compensation for all the distress 
and inconvenience  Mr Y has experienced. And I think it needs to pay £1,300  on total, i.e. 
£500 more than it has offered so far. 
I dont think that Aviva  need  to pay anything further  for accommodation expenses (the daily 
allowance).
The response  to my provisional  decision
Aviva didnt have any further  comments.
Mr Y replied,  disagreeing with the level of the award,  saying:
there was no transparency on how it was calculated; 
that there had been no consideration of his loss of earnings for more than a year;  
that I hadnt properly considered the disruption  caused to his family,  nor the damage 
to his property  and belongings; 
there had been no formal offer for premises by Aviva; 
no consideration had been  given to the emotional impact on his eldest child missing 
nursery for a year and the impact on Mr Y from a lack of contact with his children.
Ref: DRN44535254My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of Mr Ys response to it.
I will deal with Mr Ys points  in turn.
I have considered the two occasions his family  had to move out of their home. And have 
acknowledged the significant  impact  both of these moves had on Mr Y and his family. Were 
not the regulator and its not our role to fine or punish a business. Our awards arent punitive. 
So, when thinking about whether to award compensation and if so, how much,  I look at the 
impact of a businesss actions on the consumer. I also look at the awards of compensation 
weve made in other similar cases. Having  reconsidered,  Im satisfied that £800 to reflect  the 
delays in the buildings works on the first occasion, and £500 for the disruption caused  by the 
damage and having  to move out again, is fair and reasonable.
I have reconsidered  Mr Ys loss of earnings.  For me to award compensation for this, I would 
need to see evidence to show both that earnings  were lost, and that Aviva were responsible 
for these  losses. I havent seen evidence to support either point, so I dont think  I can fairly  
conclude that Aviva should pay compensation  for this.
I have acknowledged  the disruption to Mr Y and his family, and this is reflected in the 
significant award I have  given  for the distress and inconvenience they were caused.  In 
relation to any damage caused, Aviva has settled  the claim with Mr Y by paying  him to 
arrange for the repairs himself. As this was not disputed by Mr Y I think it would be 
inappropriate for me to consider it now.
I have reconsidered  the emotional  impact of the moves on Mr Y and his family. I understand 
how unsettling it was and I do see that important milestones were missed  as a result. I have 
seen that there was the option  of staying locally which I think would probably  have avoided 
these being missed. But Mr Y made the decision,  and I think  understandably, to move his 
family to stay with relatives. However,  I do think the significant award  for the distress  and 
inconvenience fairly reflects the emotional impact caused. And I dont think  I should award 
any more.
For all of these reasons, and the reasons outlined in my provisional decision, Im satisfied 
the outcome I set out in my provisional  decision is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided Aviva Insurance Limited  should  pay £1,300 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  in total. This means if it has paid £800 already 
it will only have  to pay a further £500.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN44535255
Ref: DRN4453525