K821x#15complaint
Through her daughter, Mrs S complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  is responsible for 
poor service under  a home emergency  policy.
background
Mrs S is over eighty years old. At her home she cares for an adult  son who has a dialysis  
machine.
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold that company responsible.
Mrs S had HomeCare cover for (among other things) her central  heating. It covered repairs  
and an annual boiler service. She called for help with her central heating. She complained 
that  during the cold weather  British Gas took too long to fix it. And British Gas didnt fix 
the radiator in her bathroom.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought that Mrs S 
had experienced some  considerable problems with her heating and hot water systems for 
five months. 
The investigator recommended  that British Gas should pay £1,500.00 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience this caused her.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs S 
and to British  Gas on 28 May 2019.  I summarise my findings:
I didnt agree with the investigator  that Mrs S had been without a fully working  central 
heating system and hot water for five months. I thought  she had poor central heating  
and hot water for about ten weeks, no water at all on 23 April 2018 and an ongoing 
problem with the bathroom  radiator.
Subject to any further information from Mrs S or from British Gas,  my provisional  decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint  in part. I intended  to direct British  Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay Mrs S £750.00  for distress  and inconvenience.
Through her daughter, Mrs S accepts the provisional decision.
British Gas disagrees with the provisional  decision.  It says, in summary,  that:
It disagrees with the amount of compensation  recommended.
British Gas believes a family member  fitted  the bathroom radiator incorrectly,  
approximately 8 to 10 years ago. It has never worked.
The British Gas engineer has been  going to this property  for the last ten years and 
has advised Mrs S numerous times about  the radiator and the fact that it needs re-
Ref: DRN47055022piping and the floorboards lifting in the bathroom. Its work history shows that this was 
mentioned to Mrs S as far back as 2010  / 2011.  
As this was a poor installation, its an exclusion under the policy.
Thats why British  Gas didnt fix it under the policy.
The engineers  also still believe that that sludge  is an issue with that system which  
could impact any future call outs 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has had British Gas cover for many years. The policy  renewal date each year was in 
October. The policy terms changed every  few years. 
Mrs S has said her bathroom radiator hadnt  worked  properly since about 2010. 
My provisional decision said that I would  concentrate on events from October 2017 onwards. 
But in response British Gas says that a third party had installed the bathroom radiator poorly 
8 to 10 years  ago. British  Gas has referred  to its work history from 2010.  So I have had to 
look back at all of that.
I have counted over 20 engineers who have visited Mrs S, most of them on multiple 
occasions. None  of their records  mention poor installation,  a family member or lifting 
floorboards. The closest any of the engineers came to recording a pre-existing fault was a 
note in December  2010 as follows:
ADVISED CUST ON PIPEWORK TO RAD 
That doesnt  specify whether it relates to the bathroom radiator or another  radiator. And the 
note was written by an engineer who only visited on that occasion. There  is no witness  
statement from any of the engineers who visited on multiple occasions over the years.
So Im not persuaded that someone had installed the radiator poorly  and caused a fault with 
it.
For the year from October 2017, the applicable policy terms were dated  September  2017.
The policy covered parts and labour. But it didnt cover faults caused by anybody other than
British Gas when  any change or additions were made to Mrs Ss central heating system.
And the policy didnt  cover upgrading the system or the cost of a power flush. It also 
excluded the following:
Damage  caused  by limescale,  sludge or other  debris  if weve told you before that 
you need to carry  out repairs, improvements or a British Gas Powerflush , or a 
similar process, but you havent done  so
Another policy term was as follows:
Ref: DRN47055023If someone else carries  out a powerflush for you, youll  need  to show  us the receipt  
before we carry out any more repairs or replacement work for damage caused  by 
sludge
Together I think those  terms  mean  that British Gas wont cover  damage caused by 
limescale, sludge or other debris  during a period of time after British  Gas advised a flush but 
before Mrs S got one done.
From the work history I cant see that Mrs S reported heating problems as long ago as 
December 2017.  I think it was in February 2018  that she called for help. I dont  think at that 
stage her boiler had broken down so that she had no central heating and hot water at all. 
The records  say she had poor central  heating and hot water.
The records  say an engineer cleaned a pump. I dont think that entirely solved the problem  
as the engineer visited again on 6 March 2018. The records say that he got all the radiators 
hot apart from the bathroom.
But an engineer  made another visit on 8 March 2018. So I think Mrs S was still having 
problems in cold weather. The engineer made the following note:
SYSTEM  WATER IS LIKE TAR, IN BAD NEED OF POWERFLUSH
From the records, I think that was the first time that British Gas had told Mrs S to get her 
central heating system  flushed.
Another note says that on 22 March  2018 British Gas dropped  off some fan heaters. And on 
the next day Mrs S got a flush done  by another company.
So, in response to the advice British Gas gave on 8 March 2018, Mrs S had got a flush on 
23 March 2018.  I dont think British Gas wouldve got the flush  done  any quicker. So I dont 
think it can say that Mrs S hadnt followed its advice to get a flush as soon as possible.
Theres no evidence that sludge caused  any material damage in those few days  in March  
2018.
Unfortunately there was a problem with Mrs Ss hot water cylinder. There was a particular 
low point in April when Mrs Ss son took hours to prepare for home dialysis  but then found 
there was no water  for the treatment.  On 23 April 2018 British Gas recorded that Mrs S had 
no water  at all.
But by 26 April 2018 British Gas recorded that it had fitted a new cylinder and a new filter 
and that the system was much better.
British Gas has told us that it did more for Mrs S than it was obliged to. And (from the level of 
sludge) I find it unlikely that Mrs S had a system filter until British  Gas fitted one. So that was 
an upgrade which it gave her free of charge as a gesture of goodwill.
British Gas is suggesting that the policy didnt cover  some of the repairs because they were 
due to sludge. But the policy didnt  exclude  all damage caused by sludge.  It only excluded  
damage caused by sludge  during a period of time after British Gas advised a flush but 
before Mrs S got one done. And British Gas hasnt shown that there  was any such  damage.  
Ref: DRN47055024The visit notes on 12 June 2018  suggests that the bathroom radiator  couldnt  be fixed 
because it would be a complex repair. But the policy doesnt exclude  repairs  on the grounds 
that they are complex.
More recently British Gas has suggested that the radiator repair was excluded  due to sludge.
But  as with the other  repairs  British Gas hasnt shown  that the radiator had suffered 
damage caused by sludge  during a period of time after British Gas advised a flush but 
before Mrs S got one done.
Alternatively British  Gas has said that the radiator problem was due to poor installation. But I 
havent been persuaded that someone  had installed the radiator poorly and caused a fault 
with it.
In any event, Mrs Ss daughter has told us that her husband was able to fix the bathroom 
radiator. 
So, for all these reasons,  I think British  Gas shouldve fixed it in the policy year that expired 
in October 2018.
From the checklist, I can see that the annual service only took fifteen  minutes on 15 June 
2018. But I cant say that it shouldve taken  longer  to do the required checks.
After the complaint on 7 April 2018  British Gas shouldve  sent its final response within eight 
weeks. Whilst it didnt send its final response until 25 June 2018, I dont share Mrs Ss view 
that it employed unfair tactics. But its offer of £30.00 compensation was clearly  inadequate  
and Mrs S says she returned the cheque.
I dont underestimate  the distress  and inconvenience British Gas caused Mrs S by the 
shortcomings Ive identified. She suffered  in her own right and she was worried on behalf of 
her son.
But I dont agree with the investigator that Mrs S had been  without  a fully working central 
heating system and hot water for five months. I think she had poor central heating and hot 
water for about ten weeks, no water at all on 23 April 2018 and an ongoing problem with the 
bathroom radiator.
I keep in mind that British  Gas supplied a filter as a gesture of goodwill. Overall  I find it fair 
and reasonable to order it to pay Mrs S £750.00 compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs S £750.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
Ref: DRN47055025ombudsman
Ref: DRN4705502