K820x#14Complaint
Mr W and Miss M say Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
Background
Mr W and Miss M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1993. Mr W and Miss M paid for 
the PPI with a regular  monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered Mr W in case 
he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W and Miss M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Having done that, I have  not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was over two and a half decades ago and the accounts  involved have long since 
closed, so I think its understandable  that neither side have the original  documents from the 
time. Indeed, under  data protection rules Nationwide were required to dispose of Mr W and 
Miss Ms data rather than hold onto it for too long. Mr W and Miss M dont remember buying 
PPI, which  I think is also understandable given  just how long ago the sale was, and since 
buying insurance is not often memorable. Ive thought carefully about whats  most likely to 
have happened  based on the limited information  I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Nationwide to have added the PPI without  Mr W 
and Miss Ms permission or to have misled  them  into thinking  they had to have  it. And I have 
no evidence which shows thats  what Nationwide did here. Nor have I seen any wider  
problems with its sales process from the time.  And this sale was too long ago for me to 
reasonably expect Nationwide to be able to produce  the sales documents to defend itself 
now. So I dont think I have a fair basis on which to conclude that Nationwide  misled  Mr W 
and Miss M. I think its more likely that it followed a relatively standard  sales process, gave 
them a choice, and that they chose PPI at the time  though I can understand if they no 
longer recall doing  so after so long.
From what  both sides have told me, Nationwide  didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr W and 
Miss M, which means  it didnt have to check if it was right for them. It did have to give Mr W 
and Miss M clear  information about  the PPI.
It is possible that the information Nationwide  gave Mr W and Miss M about PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely  
to have changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr W was eligible for the cover  and wasnt 
affected by any of its main  exclusions or limitations.
Ref: DRN47573112While Mr W had some benefits through work, the PPI covered him for far longer than those 
were guaranteed to pay out for, and it wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits. I also 
understand Mr W and Miss M may have had some savings or a lump  sum of money, though 
its not clear whether those wouldve lasted very long if they were needed to cover  Mr Ws 
income. In any case, the PPI meant Mr W and Miss M could protect  their money  and use it 
for other things  Mr W mentioned he was saving to buy a house, for instance.  Further,  the 
mortgage was a significant,  long-term commitment, and there was no guarantee the savings 
or benefits would  still be there in the many years to come.
Mr W pointed  out he never had to claim on the PPI, and while I understand what hes saying, 
thats something he only knows in hindsight. Accidents,  illnesses and redundancies can and 
do happen, even  for people  who are young or healthy or in jobs that seem secure. 
Ultimately, its worth  bearing in mind  that if Mr W and Miss M fell behind  on their mortgage 
payments they couldve lost their home.  So the PPI couldve really been  useful  for them  in 
protecting their home. It was competitively priced  given  what  it could pay out in a claim. And 
the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly  basis, so Mr W and Miss M could cancel it at any time 
without a penalty. Overall,  I dont  think that better information was likely to have put them off 
taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr W and Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 August  2019. 
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4757311