K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, wont  refund a payment he 
made using  his debit  card.
background
In May 2018  Mr G contacted Halifax to complain about a payment from his current  account.  
He initially told them he hadnt authorised this transaction. This was a payment for £372.50 
made using  his debit  card to transfer  the money  elsewhere. It had happened whilst he was in 
the gym.  Halifaxs evidence showed the transaction had been made from an IP address 
used by Mr G before. The device used for the transaction was also one hed used before.
Mr G admitted hed made this transaction and explained the circumstances  to Halifax. They 
felt as hed authorised this payment, there  was no reason for them to refund him. Mr G 
brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator considered the circumstances of what had happened  along with Halifaxs  
evidence. He told Mr G there were limited circumstances  wed ask Halifax  to refund him as 
hed made  the payment himself.  What had happened to Mr G didnt meet that test.
Mr G knew hed been scammed and felt he should be refunded in full. Hes asked an 
ombudsman to consider  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done do, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly I can see the timeline of events around  how this transaction  was authorised was 
comprehensively covered in our investigators view of 6 September 2019. I dont intend  to 
repeat everything  that was said there. Except  to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. There are other obligations but the key to 
consideration of Mr Gs complaint is the issue around authorisation and whether its right for 
Halifax to then refund him.
Mr G initially said hed not made this transaction. He then admitted he had and the 
circumstances around this. I appreciate he was embarrassed by these  circumstances which 
is why hed not been upfront first off. I can reassure him this hasnt played  any part in the 
decision Im making.
Therefore Im satisfied  Mr G made this payment himself as hes agreed this is factually 
correct. He thought  he was buying  something which  then didnt turn up. I dont dispute he 
was scammed but there  are limited reasons why Id then ask Halifax  to refund him.
So Ive considered:
Ref: DRN47404842The value of this transaction.  This wasnt overly  a large-value transaction. It was for 
£372.50 so I dont think Halifax would have been alerted to this because of the value;
This transaction  was a one-off. This wasnt part of a series  of transactions where  
Halifax may have been able to identify potential scam payments over a period of 
time; and
Mr G had used this facility before to make a similar type of payment. Halifax wouldnt 
have seen this as completely out of character.
We do expect banks  to be able to identify potential  fraudulent transactions in certain 
circumstances where  we think they should  have done more. But I dont  think  this is the case  
here. Overall I dont think Halifax has done  anything wrong. Therefore it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to ask them to refund Mr G.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Gs complaint against Bank 
of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4740484