K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the way Liverpool  Victoria Friendly  Society Limited (LV) handled  his 
claim for benefit under his income  protection policy. 
background
Mr B applied for an income  protection policy with LV in April 2017 with a monthly benefit of 
£1,250. Mr B said that when he applied for the policy he answered  the questions  on the 
application form to the best of his knowledge.
In January 2018, Mr B tried to claim under his policy. He said that he was suffering from 
symptoms including  lower  back and knee pain, which were preventing him from doing his 
job. He also included copies of medical certificates  confirming that hed been signed  off 
work.
As part of their claim process, LV requested a GPs  report from Mr Bs doctor. When the 
report was received in March, it said that Mr B had previously  had an x-ray in 2010  which  
showed he was suffering  from a problem with his left hip - which  hadnt  been declared on the 
application form.  So LV said they needed more information about Mr Bs medical  history  - 
so they asked Mr Bs GP for a copy of his full medical records.  When LV received  the 
records at the beginning of April, they noted  in December  2010, Mr B had been diagnosed 
with osteoarthritis  NOS  of hip and lumber disc degeneration. They also noted that in 
February 2014 Mr B had suffered  from anxiety neurosis. 
LV contacted Mr B a few days later and asked him to explain why he hadnt disclosed the 
issues identified from the x-ray  in 2010  or the anxiety in 2014.  Mr B said that hed never  
been told the results  of the x-ray so he didnt  think there was anything  wrong.  On 10 April,  
Mr B complained to LV about the length  of time it was taking to pay his claim. LV explained 
that they needed to investigate what had happened  but agreed  to escalate his case.  LV 
wrote to Mr Bs doctor again, who confirmed that due to an internal error,  Mr B hadnt  ever 
received the x-ray  results.  So LV agreed  it wasnt Mr Bs fault he hadnt  included this on his 
application form. 
At the end of May,  LV contacted Mr B again.  They said that if their underwriters had been  
aware of Mr Bs anxiety  when he applied for the policy, then they would have  applied  an 
exclusion saying they wouldnt  pay any claims  relating to depression, anxiety and other  
related mental  disorders.  So they asked Mr B to sign a form confirming he accepted this 
exclusion. Mr B responded the same  day and said hed never suffered from anxiety. So LV 
said theyd need  to contact his doctor again  to confirm this. 
Mr B complained to LV again at the end of May, but when he didnt receive a response he 
brought his complaint to this service. He said that he felt he was being  unfairly  blackmailed  
to sign the exclusion  form or his claim would be cancelled. 
In early June, LV received  confirmation  from Mr Bs doctor that hed never  suffered from 
anxiety or related issues. The doctor  said there had been an administration error so an 
incorrect entry had been added to Mr Bs records but this was now being  removed.  LV 
emailed Mr B on 12 June to confirm they would now pay his claim and it would be backdated  
to 31 January. 
Ref: DRN40671422Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He agreed  that some  delays 
werent caused by LV, but he felt Mr Bs claim still couldve been  paid sooner  - when the 
x-ray issue had been resolved. He also felt the anxiety  issue couldve been dealt with at a 
later date as this was unrelated to this claim.  The investigator felt that because of the impact  
on Mr B from the delays, LV should pay him £600  for the trouble and upset  caused.     
LV didnt agree. They said that because  of the record relating to anxiety, they needed Mr B 
to sign the exclusion  form. They explained if this had shown on the original application form, 
the policy wouldnt have  been accepted without an exclusion being applied. So if Mr B didnt  
accept the exclusion  the policy wouldve then been voided and no claim wouldve been paid. 
They felt that theyd taken the correct actions in the circumstances.  So they asked for the 
case to be passed  to an ombudsman for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it 
for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. 
Mr Bs policy  sets out the circumstances in which a claim  for income protection benefit will 
be paid. Since Mr B brought his complaint  to us, the dispute about whether Mr B can claim 
under his policy has been resolved as LV have  accepted this and paid Mr B the backdated 
benefit. However, Mr B is still unhappy  at how his claim was processed.
delays in paying the claim
Mr B says he feels that LV have delayed paying his claim which has caused  him financial 
difficulty. Ive seen that Mr B initially claimed on his policy on 22 January, and LV said based  
on the information they received, and their claims process, they needed a GPs report  from 
Mr Bs doctor. I dont think  this was an unreasonable request from LV as they needed to 
check Mr B was making a valid claim. 
However, Ive seen that there were  numerous emails between  LV and Mr B, asking him to 
send in the request for a GPs  report when  he wasnt physically able to do so - either due to 
being in hospital or because of the condition he was claiming for. Ive seen that despite Mr B 
telling LV that he was struggling  to get the information they wanted, it wasnt until the 
20 February that LV themselves requested the GP report  - nearly a month later. And I feel 
this was an unnecessary  delay  to Mr Bs claim, especially as LV were aware he was 
suffering from mobility issues.  Ive also seen  that Mr B said that he was able to give 
authority over the phone  to the medical  secretary in March  for access to his records  - so I 
think its reasonable that he couldve  provided this verbal authority earlier to prevent his 
claim being delayed  by four weeks. 
LV said that when  they received the GP claim report on 15 March it showed  Mr B had an 
x-ray in December 2010 for issues relating  to his hip and back  - which  he hadnt disclosed. 
They told us that because of this, they needed more  information and requested full medical 
records which were received on 3 April.  They  said the x-ray noted Mr B was suffering from 
Osteoarthritis NOS  or hip and lumber disc degeneration. And there  was also a note saying  
Mr B had suffered  from anxiety in February  2014. So they contacted Mr B to ask why he 
hadnt disclosed these  issues  on his policy application form. I dont think it was unreasonable 
of LV to take these actions as they needed  to understand if Mr B had an eligible claim. 
Ref: DRN40671423However, LV spoke  to Mr B on 6 April and he told them he wasnt  aware of the x-ray results. 
But instead  of calling  or emailing Mr Bs GP to see what had happened  - given Mr Bs 
insistence and argument that he wasnt aware - they wrote  to the GP again. This meant they 
didnt receive a response until 3 May which caused a further delay of around  3 weeks. I 
recognise that LV may have a usual process  when dealing with claims, but I dont think LV 
treated Mr B fairly in this situation and didnt take into account his circumstances. 
Ive also seen that although  LV were  made  aware  on 11 April that Mr B had supposedly 
suffered from anxiety in 2014, they didnt  contact him to apply the retrospective  exclusion 
until 23 May - six weeks later. I understand why LV asked Mr B to complete this exclusion  
based on the medical report theyd received. However, they couldve taken this account  at 
the same  time as the investigation into the x-ray was taking place. I dont  think it was 
reasonable of LV to progress one issue and wait for the outcome of this before dealing with 
the second. I feel this caused an unnecessary delay to Mr Bs claim - regardless of whether  
Mr B had agreed to complete the exclusion or not.  Had Mr B been  given the exclusion form 
to sign earlier, LV couldve contacted the GP sooner and wouldve been made aware  the 
form was in fact not even  required. So I agree with our investigator  that LV should add 8% 
per year simple interest to the backdated  payment made to Mr B from 3 May to the date it 
was paid - to reflect that the payment shouldve been made on this date - not 12 June. As 
this was the date LV became aware  Mr B had never received his x-ray results.  
trouble and upset
Mr B told us that because  he didnt  have any money  to pay his debts,  he contacted some of 
his lenders directly  to renegotiate payments and approached charities to help him with 
others whilst  he was in financial difficulty. I recognise Mr B probably wouldnt be in this 
position if LV had paid his claim without delay.  I cant hold LV responsible  for the delay in 
paying Mr Bs claim initially as they werent  responsible for the incorrect information  being 
provided to them at the outset. But LV were made aware Mr B hadnt received the results of 
his x-ray on 3 May and Mr B didnt apply for a charity to represent him to his creditors until 
17 May. So I feel the outcome of this meeting couldve  been  different if Mr B had been  paid 
the benefit he was expecting. Although I cant ask LV to do anything  to resolve this, I have 
taken this into account when considered the trouble and upset caused to Mr B.   
Mr B told us that hes suffered stress and hasnt slept because  of the delays in paying  his 
claim. Hes also said that he felt blackmailed by LV to sign a declaration that wasnt  
applicable to him just so his claim could be paid.  I dont  find that Mr B was blackmailed, but I 
recognise this must have  been a stressful time for him and I have taken this into account 
when making my decision.  
I agree  with our investigator that Mr Bs claim couldve been paid earlier. As I mentioned 
above, I feel there were  delays through-out  the process of Mr Bs claim and I think  LV 
couldve treated Mr B better during what was already a difficult time - especially when  he 
made them aware he was in hospital.  So I feel that LV should pay Mr B £600  compensation 
for the trouble and upset  caused. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Liverpool  Victoria Friendly  Society  
Limited to:
Ref: DRN40671424pay Mr B 8% per year simple interest  on the claim  amount which  should have been  
paid on 3 May 2018 to the date of settlement;
pay Mr B £600 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
If LV considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate  
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4067142