K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about Great Lakes  Insurance SEs decision to decline a claim under his 
travel insurance policy.
background
Mr H had travel insurance with Great Lakes and had been due to fly abroad with his family 
on 28 July. Unfortunately, the flight was cancelled, so Mr H and his family went home and 
checked online for alternative  flights.  After seeing there were no flights  with company R,  
Mr H booked a flight with another  airline,  departing on 30 July from a different airport, and 
arriving at a different  airport. 
Mr H received a refund  from company R for the cancelled  flight.  But he made a claim to 
Great Lakes for the cost of the replacement  flight (plus airport  parking and car hire) under 
the enforced stay section  of the policy. Great Lakes said hed need to provide written  
confirmation from company R as to when its next available flight had been, but Mr H only 
managed to get an email stating please note that as you have not contacted  us and did not 
give us an opportunity to change  your flight, therefore we have no information about the time 
of the next available  flight. Consequently, the claim was declined.
Mr H wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He accepted  he didnt call 
company R when the flight was cancelled as he assumed there would be nobody  to speak 
to, and checked online instead. He queried  why hed have chosen to lose two days  of his 
week-long holiday, buy a more expensive  flight, depart from a different airport  (which was an 
extra two hour drive from his home) and arrive  at a different destination,  if thered  been 
another flight available with company R.
Our investigator issued  a view explaining  she didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  
She noted the policy required  Mr H to provide  information from company R about alternative 
flights, and that as there was no evidence  hed done so, she thought  Great Lakes decision 
to decline the claim  was fair.
Responding to the view, Mr H sent some  information  about  the widespread cancellation of 
company Rs flights around the time his flight was cancelled. He said hed spoken to a 
representative from company R at the airport and was told to check their website for live 
flight information. He explained it was the first week of the summer  holidays and there  were  
thousands of passengers  with cancelled flights,  with no available flights to accommodate  
them all. He said he did try to call company  R, but he couldnt  get through.  As it was their 
summer holiday, he decided to pay for the alternative flight, even though it didnt land at the 
same airport  as the original flight.
Mr H argued it was impossible to get the information Great Lakes required. He explained he 
contacted company R and was directed to a link to request  confirmation of the next 
available flight. He said he completed  the link many times and never received confirmation, 
and after several  months,  company R confirmed they couldnt say when the next available  
flight had been.  
Our investigator issued  a second view in which she noted shed seen an email from the 
second airline confirming the second flight wasnt booked until 29 July 2018 at 4.50pm, 
which was 24 hours after the original flight had been due to take off. And based on what 
Ref: DRN49355982Mr H had said, she was satisfied there were no alternative flights  available with company R. 
She noted hed been told by company R that his options were  to either apply for a refund, or 
change his flight, and she accepted that if a flight had been available,  its unlikely hed have  
chosen to book the alternative flight.
Great Lakes has asked  for the complaint  to be reviewed  by an ombudsman,  arguing the 
email from company R confirms he didnt  contact it after the flight  was cancelled.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy states  it will paywhere after a period  of 24 hours  or more, you unavoidably 
have to make immediate alternative  arrangements  to reach  your destination/return  to your 
pre-booked accommodation/return home  and your travel provider cannot  provide alternative 
travel arrangements.  It also states the policy holder must get written  confirmation from the 
transport provider (or their handling agent) of the cancellation, number of hours of delay or 
being denied  boarding  and the reason for these together with any alternative  transport  
offered.
Theres no dispute that Mr Hs flight was cancelled, and I accept alternative travel 
arrangements were unavoidable. Theres  also evidence that 24 hours had passed before he 
booked the replacement flight.  So, the main issue for me to consider is whether  
Mr H has shown company R was unable to provide alternative travel arrangements, and 
whether Great Lakes decision to decline the claim due to Mr Hs failure  to get written  
confirmation from company R about  its flight availability was fair. 
Great Lakes maintains it has an email from company R confirming Mr H didnt contact it, but 
I dont think this was a fair basis on which to decline the claim.  I consider the email  is only 
evidence that company  R doesnt have a record  of Mr H having  contacted  it, not that there  
were available flights. Further, Mr H hasnt said he ever spoke to a representative  of 
company R by phone  to check  flight availability  after the cancellation;  his account is that he 
spoke to an agent of R in person at the airport and checked online, and company Rs email 
doesnt contradict  this. 
Mr H says he looked on company Rs website and that there were no available flights, but he 
doesnt have any evidence to support this. He has, however, explained that the cancellation 
of his flight came amid widespread cancellations  of company Rs flights  and that this, and 
the fact it was the start of the summer  holidays, meant that there were no alternative flights 
with company R. I understand the need  for Great Lakes to verify  claims, but I accept there 
were widespread cancellations and in the absence  of evidence concerning flight availability, I 
accept there  was little scope for company Rs passengers to rebook  flights  with company R 
and its most  likely there was no availability.
Mr H has also said he wouldnt  have booked the second flight if there  had been availability 
with company R because  the second flight was more expensive,  it didnt  take off until two 
days into the holiday and it took off and landed from different, less convenient  airports. I 
think its unlikely Mr H would have paid for the second flight  if there had been availability on a 
flight with company R, and Im satisfied this supports his account  that company R had no 
flight availability.
Ref: DRN49355983Mr H has said he was told by company R to check online  for flight  availability, and thats 
what he did. Im satisfied  this account is plausible, and that it wasnt unreasonable for him to 
have gone home and checked online for flight  availability. Im also satisfied that, in the 
circumstances, its unlikely the outcome would have been any different if hed spoken to 
company R by phone. I understand Great Lakes needs to be sure the cost of the second 
flight was necessary, but Im satisfied the circumstances were such  that Mr H had no option 
other than to book  a flight with a different airline and that he did so in good faith. 
Regarding policy requirement to provide  written  confirmation that there were no available  
flights, Mr H has described his efforts to get evidence  from company R and I dont think  
theres anything further he could reasonably have done to verify  his claim. Company R 
hasnt provided  any information about flight availability, but in the circumstances,  this doesnt 
surprise me. With the benefit  of hindsight Mr H could have made a record  of the information 
he found online, but hes said he hadnt  read the policy booklet and I dont think  he can fairly 
be penalised  for that. 
In the circumstances and for the reasons outlined above, I dont  think Great  Lakes decision 
to decline the claim  on the basis Mr H has been  unable to retrospectively obtain  written 
confirmation from company R about  flight availability is fair. Consequently,  I think it should 
settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to settle  the claim. The cash  
settlement should  include  a payment of 8% interest* from the date Mr H incurred the cost to 
the date of settlement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Great Lakes Insurance SE to take off tax from this 
interest. Great Lakes  Insurance SE must give Ms B and Mr N a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if they ask for one. They may then be able to reclaim  the tax from the 
tax authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4935598