K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that he was invoiced by AXA Insurance UK Plcs contractors for 50% of the 
cost of replacing his bathroom wall tiles following his home  insurance  claim  for a water leak 
from his bathroom.  
background
Mr P made a claim on his home insurance  in November 2016 for damage  to his bath and a 
water leak to the rooms  below which  had damaged the ceilings. AXA accepted the claim and 
appointed a loss adjuster to manage  the claim. Contractors were  appointed to carry out the 
repairs to the property. 
Part of the repairs included replacing  damaged  bathroom  wall tiles. Mr P couldnt find any 
replacement tiles that matched those he had. The decision  was taken to re-tile the bathroom 
walls with new upgraded tiles. AXA said it would pay to replace the damaged tiles and, as a 
gesture of goodwill, contribute 50% towards  the cost of supplying and fitting the undamaged 
tiles. 
The repairs  were carried out and the contractors  sent Mr P an invoice for £503.75. This 
represented his portion  of the cost of replacing  the upgraded and undamaged bathroom wall 
tiles. Some months later,  Mr P complained to AXA that hed been incorrectly charged for the 
undamaged tiles. He said he wanted his money back. 
AXA looked  into Mr Ps complaint  but didnt think it had done  anything wrong. It said that it 
had no liability under the policy terms to replace undamaged matching items and only 
offered to contribute 50% of the cost of doing  so as a gesture of goodwill. 
Unhappy with AXAs findings, Mr P complained to this service. He said that hed been told by 
the loss adjuster that the tiles cost £2.00  per square metre whereas  a national retailer  had 
said they cost in the region of £12. Mr P thought that if the loss adjuster had priced the tiles 
correctly then he wouldve  had to pay significantly less. 
Our adjudicator looked into his complaint but didnt  recommend that it was upheld. The 
complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the policy terms and conditions and can see they provide  no cover for 
replacing undamaged  matching items or sets.  The majority of the tiles in the bathroom  were 
undamaged. That means  AXA wasnt liable for replacing them. But when Mr P was unable  to 
find any tiles that matched  those he had and decided he wanted  all the tiles upgraded and 
replaced, AXA took a business decision to contribute to 50% of the cost of doing so. Thats  
in line with this services approach to issues relating to matching items, pairs  or sets so Im 
satisfied that AXA has treated  Mr P fairly. 
Ive seen an email from AXA to Mr P from early  December 2016. That says:
Ref: DRN42529242we can cover all of the costs for the damaged tiles AND 50% towards the undamaged tiles 
which will not match the replacements.
I have spoken  to [the loss adjuster] who will speak to their contractor  to discuss  sending  
some amended costs  to include  our 50% and they will then invoice yourselves for the 
remaining 50% and your policy excess. They  are happy to carry out the work for you should 
you require.
I can see that Mr P then went to a national retailer and chose the tiles he wanted. He 
emailed AXA and asked  it to order them directly. AXA replied to Mr P by email and said:  
Thank you for your e-mail with your tile choices.
I will arrange for an invoice to be raised for the supply and fit of the extra tiles. This should 
be £498.81 & VAT, however as you have chosen replacement tiles within  the allowance 
allocated by the insurers this has reduced your contribution to £419.79 & VAT.
When VAT at 20% is added to £419.79  it comes  to £503.75 which  is the amount Mr P was 
invoiced for. 
Im satisfied from these email exchanges  that Mr P wanted the upgraded tiles and was 
aware, in advance, of what they were  to cost him. Mr P agreed  to go ahead  with the works at 
the price stated and didnt  question the cost at the time. 
Mr P has also questioned the cost per square metre AXA quoted him in comparison to the 
cost of buying tiles from a national retailer. Insurers are able to negotiate special  commercial  
rates with their suppliers  that arent available to the general public. It is therefore not unusual  
for the cost incurred  by an insurer to be significantly different to the normal  retail  cost. 
On balance, I dont  think that AXA treated Mr P unreasonably  so I dont think I can fairly ask 
it to refund  any of the cost he incurred in replacing  the undamaged,  upgraded  bathroom  tiles.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4252924