K820x#14complaint
Miss E is unhappy with AXA PPP Healthcare  Limiteds decision to decline her claim.
background
Miss E has private medical insurance with AXA. Shes a dependent under her fathers policy  
and so brings her complaint in this capacity.
Miss E attended an ultra sound in December 2017  where bi-lateral breast cysts were 
discovered. She was recommended to have  a follow up ultrasound  six months later,  or 
sooner, should  she begin  to suffer symptoms, like the cysts enlarging. 
Around one year later, in October 2018,  Miss E arranged a follow up appointment at a 
private clinic,  she had an ultrasound scan and this forms the basis  of her claim. Miss E said 
AXA should  pay her the costs associated  with the follow up appointment. 
AXA declined her claim because it said there  wasnt any cover for preventative treatment or 
screening, as described under its policy. 
Our investigator didnt  think AXA should  pay for the follow up appointment, but for different 
reasons to those  already given. She said this wasnt preventative treatment or screening, 
like AXA had initially  said, rather it was on-going monitoring of a chronic condition which still 
wasnt covered by the policy. 
Miss E disagreed. She said this was nothing to do with screening and that the cysts were 
causing her discomfort.  Ultimately, Miss E said AXA should cover her costs because this is 
the sort of thing  private  medical insurance should cover. 
And so, its for me to make a final decision.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Miss Es complaint. My reasons for doing so are like 
those already explained by our investigator. The policy Miss E has with AXA doesnt  offer 
cover for on-going monitoring of chronic conditions. Ill explain in more detail below. 
The relevant  term that applies  is;
we dont  cover ongoing, recurring long-term  treatment  for chronic  conditions,  this
means we will not cover:
 monitoring a medical condition
 any treatment that only offers temporary  relief  of your symptoms,  rather than dealing  with
  the underlying  condition
 routine follow-up consultations
When Miss E attended the clinic in 2017, she was told to book  a follow  up appointment six 
months down the line. The evidence suggested  the reason  she was told this was so that her 
Ref: DRN42526632cysts could be monitored. Im persuaded that the reason for this was because the doctor 
wanted to make sure there wasnt any further development of the cysts, nor anything  
untoward that would  need  medical attention. 
Miss E attended clinic again as planned,  albeit  ten months later,  but nonetheless, it was still 
a follow  up appointment to monitor  her bilateral cysts. And given the above term Ive 
highlighted and what Ive just explained, Im satisfied AXA has relied  on it fairly to decline her 
claim. 
Miss E made arguments that she has been sexually discriminated against by AXA owning to 
its decision not to cover her claim. But Ive not seen any evidence that persuaded me this 
was the case.  
Miss E had subsequently explained that her breasts  had become  painful which  is why she 
made the appointment in October. But Ive not seen  any medical  evidence  to support this.  
The clinical  notes dont  mention she suffered with pain and the conversations  she had with 
AXA suggest she was attempting to claim for the follow up appointment, as directed by the 
doctor the year before.  
Miss Es policy does permit cover  for some  routine follow-up  consultations  and associated  
diagnostic tests, but I note this is only for specified  chronic conditions.  And unfortunately  for 
Miss E, her condition  isnt listed and so Im satisfied theres no cover in these circumstances.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 January 2020.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4252663