K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold him a regular premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI), policy.
background
Mr C took out a secured loan in November  1995. At the same time he also took out a regular 
premium PPI policy covering him for disability and unemployment. The PPI also provided a 
benefit in the event  of death.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs complaint. 
Theres limited  information available from the time the PPI was sold to Mr C in        
November 1995,  which isnt unusual given the sale took place over 20 years ago. As a 
result, Nationwide hasnt been able to provide us with copies of Mr Cs actual paperwork 
from the time of sale. Nationwide also hasnt been able to confirm  how the PPI was sold.
So, Ive based  my findings  on the information I do have and what I think is most likely to 
have happened  at the time of sale. 
Nationwide has provided us with a sample paperwork it says Mr C wouldve signed when 
taking out the loan and agreeing to the PPI. While  Nationwide cant  confirm  the exact sales 
channel, it says the sample paperwork  represents  what Mr C would have  seen when signing 
for the loan and PPI.
Based on what Ive seen,  including the sample loan application form, I think  Nationwide 
made Mr C aware that he had a choice about  buying the PPI, and he chose to take it out. I 
say this because  the loan application form describes the PPI as Optional Credit  Insurance 
and sets out the cost of PPI separately to that of the loan. So taking everything into account,  
I think its likely Nationwide made  it clear  to Mr C that the PPI was optional  and I think  he 
agreed to it.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been  particularly about  the things it didnt  cover. But Mr C chose to take out the PPI, 
so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover, such  as pre-existing medical conditions. So it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Ref: DRN47634052I note Mr C has told us he was self-employed  at the time of sale, so Ive looked at whether 
this means the policy wasnt useful for him. Having reviewed the policy  terms and conditions, 
I can see that it wouldnt have been more difficult for Mr C to claim than an employed  policy  
holder. So, I dont think this makes  a difference to the outcome of this complaint.
Mr C has told us he had limited savings  at the time of sale and wouldnt be entitled  to any 
sick pay as he was self-employed. Having thought about what  Mr C has said about his 
savings, I dont think this means he wouldnt have found the policy  useful. In the event of a 
successful claim, the PPI would have paid a benefit  if Mr C was too unwell to work  and also 
would have paid a benefit if Mr C found himself without any work. In addition  to this, the PPI 
would have paid a benefit in the event of death. So, I think  the PPI would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong.
So overall, I think Mr C could have  found  the policy useful  if he ever fell on hard times and I 
dont think that any better  information would have put him off from taking out the policy.
my final decision
Based on everything  Ive said above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4763405