K821x#15complaint
Mr Ks complaint against Marks & Spencer  Financial Services  Plc (M&S) is that its holding 
him responsible for a purchase he didnt make. 
background
In December 2018, Mr Ks M&S credit card was used to buy foreign currency (Euros) to a 
value of £2,496.53. Mr K said this wasnt him, and reported it to M&S as a disputed  
transaction.
M&S said it was holding Mr K liable  for the transaction because it was made using his card, 
and the currency  was delivered to his address and was signed for. 
But Mr K said that hed never made  or authorised the currency  purchase,  and neither had he 
received the money at home. He did concede that at the material  time there were additional 
people living with him and his family for around  a week, and it was a possibility somebody 
else could have done this. He couldnt  say who, but was adamant  it wasnt him. 
M&S wouldnt change  its mind, so Mr K brought his complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator  carefully considered all of the evidence.  He accepted it was a difficult case 
to determine,  and that he couldnt do so conclusively. But our service doesnt have to work to 
that standard  we need to determine what we think is most likely on the evidence. And he 
felt that there wasnt enough to satisfy him that Mr K had authorised the purchase. So in 
terms of the Payment Services Regulations  2017  (PSRs), he couldnt be held liable for it.
M&S disagreed. It felt that as the genuine  card had been used, and the currency  delivered to 
Mr Ks address, this was enough  to show hed been  involved. So it asked for an 
ombudsmans review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that this complaint should  be upheld.  
This is on the basis that theres insufficient  evidence to convince  me that Mr K himself  
authorised the disputed  transaction.
Im conscious Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties, and in my 
own words. Im not going to respond  to each individual point made. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed  on what I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this, and it reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. So if theres something  Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Rather, its because Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I also agree  with our Investigator  that this wasnt an easy  case to determine.  And I 
understand why M&S might consider that the fact the currency was delivered  to Mr Ks 
address was enough to prove  that either he somehow knew  about and allowed the 
Ref: DRN49781552transaction. So Ive had to decide if I agree. After great consideration, I dont. Rather, I 
believe Mr Ks testimony that he wasnt involved at all. 
To explain further, it does  look like somebody  living  in Mr Ks home used his card, and 
ordered and received the currency. But that doesnt mean it was Mr K himself, and that its 
fair to hold him liable  for it. Equally,  I can see why it might not feel fair for M&S to be 
responsible for the money, when its gone  to somebody who seems  to be close  to Mr K. But 
the crucial point is that I need to be convinced  that Mr K himself  was involved. And I dont 
think he was. Crucially,  in order to hold him liable for the transaction,  I have to be satisfied 
that he authorised  it  either himself  or by allowing somebody else to do so. I think theres an 
obvious point  of compromise in that different people were living in Mr Ks house at the time, 
but that doesnt mean he was involved.  And I dont  think he received the money, as the 
signature given  doesnt  match his. 
The nature of Mr Ks credit card account  agreement with M&S  is that it will only hold him 
responsible for transactions he himself  authorises. Whether a transaction  is made by 
somebody close to him isnt the same  as him giving  his authority. M&S needs to prove that 
its likely  that Mr K was somehow involved,  but beyond  the circumstantial evidence  of the 
currency being delivered to his address, I dont  think its done that here. 
For these reasons, I think a fair outcome here is to uphold  Mr Ks complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im going to uphold Mr Ks complaint. To resolve matters, Im asking 
Marks and Spencer  Financial Services Plc to:-
Refund the £2496.53  to Mr Ks account,  together with any associated interest and 
charges; and
Make  any necessary changes to Mr Ks credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4978155