K821x#15complaint
Mr S and Mrs C complain  that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined their home  insurance  
claim following a leak at their property. 
background
Mr S and Mrs C held a home  insurance  policy with AXA. The policy  started in May 2018,  and 
later that month they made a claim for water damage.  In early-July 2018  they confirmed the 
leak had been  located and repaired. Their plumber had to attend on multiple occasions to 
find the leak  which was from a mains  water pipe beneath a concrete screed, below the 
kitchen flooring. In August 2018,  they submitted quotes for the repairs.  
In October  2018, Mr S and Mrs C made  a complaint  about the progress of their claim.  They  
were of the view that delays had been  caused  by AXA due to it concluding the damp wasnt  
caused by the leak.  They were also unhappy with the alternative accommodation being 
offered to them for the duration of the repairs.
AXA didnt uphold  Mr S and Mrs Cs complaint.  It also explained that it held concerns about  
the length of time the leak had been ongoing,  and the proximity  of the claim to when their 
policy started. AXA explained further  investigations  would be undertaken.
Mr S and Mrs C then referred their complaint  to this service. Whilst the case  was waiting to 
be allocated to one of our investigators AXA undertook further investigations, and it sent        
Mr S and Mrs C a letter outlining its concerns:
-In February 2018, Mr S and Mrs C made  four phone calls to their then insurer.  Their 
semi-detached neighbour had damp  on his side of the party  wall, and he hadnt been  
able to find a leak at his home. Mr S and Mrs C initially advised their insurer that they 
had bubbles in their hallway and the damage was getting worse.  They  also said the 
leak was believed to be coming from their underfloor  heating and noted their boiler  
pressure kept dropping.  The insurer explained to Mr S and Mrs C that it was 
therefore likely they had a leak at their property.
-Mr S and Mrs Cs insurer told them it was their responsibility to source and repair  the 
leak before it considered the damage  Mr S and Mrs C raised dissatisfaction  about 
this and highlighted the costs involved.  The insurer reiterated that if their neighbour 
had conducted  investigations at his home  and he hadnt been able to find the leak,  
then it was now their responsibility  to investigate and the issue  couldnt  be left. 
However, Mr S and Mrs C didnt undertake any investigations. 
-The neighbours builder visited Mr S and Mrs C in February  2018.  AXA has received 
confirmation from the builder that he highlighted a slight  leak from their boiler,  but at 
the time he told Mr S and Mrs C he didnt  consider the boiler leak to be the cause of 
the amount of damp he had found  in the lower levels of their property. 
-Mr S and Mrs C contacted AXA in May 2018  to make a claim for water damage to the 
walls and skirting boards in their hall, lounge, and dining area. They  claimed they had 
noticed the damage the day before  and they failed  to mention the previous issues 
they had raised  with their previous insurer. The damage they described also wasnt  
consistent with a leak that had been  ongoing for only a few days.
Ref: DRN48262572-Mr S and Mrs C presented AXA with water  bills which showed an increase of about 
six times their average amount of water usage, dating back to before AXAs policy  
started. AXA thought Mr S and Mrs C would have noticed their water usage 
increasing by such  a vast amount.
In response to AXAs concerns, Mr S and Mrs C said:
-In February 2018, they understood the damage at their property to be from a leaking 
boiler pipe  and they informed their then insurer they had decided not to take their 
claim forward as the damage was so minor. They  replaced their boiler later that 
month and considered  the issue resolved.
-During the February 2018 calls to their previous insurer they noted small bubbling in 
their hallway,  beneath where  their boiler is located. They also noted bubbling to their 
side of the party  wall, which is a different  wall to their hallway, but this was believed 
to be from a damp issue at their neighbours house. They  explained that they only 
mentioned their underfloor heating in the first instance as they were reflecting the 
neighbours concerns, and they later clarified  their doubts their underfloor heating 
was leaking given  their floors  were dry.
-They provided AXA with text messages that show  their neighbour was satisfied after 
they had resolved their boiler leak. They considered their conclusions and action in 
February 2018 to be reasonable given  the damage  at their property was so minor. 
They also werent aware that the mains water  pipe under their kitchen floor was 
leaking, and the forthcoming water bill wasnt received until June 2018. 
-In respect of the amount  of damage reported when the claim was made in May 2018,  
they said they didnt notice the damage  until that time, and it built up gradually. They 
also said a television and childrens play area was obscuring some of the damage.
AXA considered Mr S and Mrs Cs points, but it said they had failed to provide  any evidence  
or reasonable explanation  for why their previous  insurer had recorded a claim for the same  
damage. It said they had failed to present any evidence that showed they had followed  the 
previous insurers  advice to investigate the leak, and it was concerned  they had failed to 
mitigate their loss. Therefore, AXA concluded the damage was caused before its policy 
started, and it declined  the claim.
Mr S and Mrs C remained unhappy, so one of our investigators considered the matter. She 
didnt think AXAs claim decision was reasonable and she thought  the complaint should be 
upheld. She said the following:
-Theres been an insured event, i.e. a water leak. Therefore, for AXA to decline the 
claim it needs to show that one of the policy exclusions applies,  but it hasnt 
mentioned one.
-The leak may have  started when  Mr S and Mrs C held cover with a different insurer, 
but the leak continued into AXAs period of cover. Our approach here is for the 
current insurer to deal with the claim, and for it to recover  some costs from the 
previous insurer if it feels it's appropriate to do so. 
Ref: DRN48262573-Because Mr S and Mrs C contacted their previous insurer to ask about tracing a leak, 
AXA is of the view they were aware  there  was a problem and they didn't do enough 
to mitigate the damage. However, Mr S and Mrs C say on the calls that they have  
one or two small bubbles and their calls had been prompted by contact from their 
neighbour. During the calls they were  clear they had little damage at their home. 
-AXA has concluded that Mr S and Mrs C would have been aware for some time there 
was damage occurring. However, AXA first visited about three months after the claim 
had been made  and for about  two of those  months the leak was still ongoing whilst 
it was traced and repaired. During this period, the damage had continued to worsen. 
Our investigator explained there  wasnt any evidence that the damage at Mr S and 
Mrs Cs home in February 2018  was significant  and ought to have prompted more 
investigation  or evidence  from May 2018 when the claim was made, that the 
damage was so severe it would  have been  visible  for some  time. 
-So, based on the above,  our investigator said AXA should settle the claim in line with 
the policy terms. She also thought AXA should compensate Mr S and Mrs C £500 for 
the delays to their claim and their inconvenience. She noted they have  two young 
children, and a large hole in their kitchen floor and damp.  
Mr S and Mrs C accepted our investigators  conclusions, but they asked about  their own 
report costs after they had appointed a forensic  surveyor to dispute AXAs findings. 
AXA disagreed with our investigators outcome. In addition to the points already made, AXA 
said the policy terms exclude gradual  damage.  It also noted concerns  that Mr S and Mrs C 
had asked to stay in a hotel suit whilst the repairs were completed,  and it considered  the 
damage caused by the tracing  and accessing  of the leak to be excessive. 
Our investigator changed roles, so the case was passed to one of our other  investigators  to 
review the responses. She agreed  with the previous investigators findings, and she wasnt  
persuaded by AXAs  response. She also said that we would consider Mr S and Mrs Cs 
report costs once they had evidenced the amount paid. Because  AXA disagreed,  the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
Mr S and Mrs C have  since  provided their report invoice for £564. They also thought the 
£500 compensation recommended by our investigators should be increased given their 
experience, and the impact on their family which includes two young children.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Given how close the claim was made  to the start of the policy, along with Mr S and Mrs Cs 
phone calls to their previous insurer, I can understand  AXAs initial  concerns. However, Im 
not persuaded those concerns were enough for AXA to have fairly declined the claim. 
Ref: DRN48262574This means  I have  reached the same outcome as our investigators. However, Ive increased  
the compensation, and clarified  AXA needs to reimburse Mr S and Mrs Cs surveyor fees 
plus interest. I will set out my findings under the following five headings: the insurer  
responsible, gradual damage, other  concerns, forensic surveyor  invoice, and 
compensation.
the insurer responsible
Having reviewed Mr S and Mrs Cs water bills, on balance, Im persuaded that the leak was 
ongoing before AXAs  policy started. In my view, the average monthly water usage  during 
2017 supports  the leak started  late-2017. 
AXAs policy  excludes any damage that occurred,  or arose from an event, before the policy  
started. However,  the leak continued  for about six weeks  into AXAs period of cover. So, in 
my view, it would be difficult to separate the damage that occurred before  and after AXAs 
policy started. Equally, the damage  wasnt from an event that only arose  before its policy 
started; the event in question was ongoing  for quite some time afterwards. So, Im not 
persuaded the exclusion can fairly be applied. 
Furthermore, given the leak continued  well into AXAs cover,  I consider it reasonable for 
AXA to consider the claim and for it to seek a contribution from the previous insurer  if it 
wishes to do so.
gradual damage
AXA points towards  gradual damage  being excluded by the policy terms. However, whilst Im 
satisfied AXA can technically apply that exclusion here; I need  to consider whether the strict 
application of the exclusion is fair. This service  generally takes the view it isnt fair for an 
insurer to rely on gradual damage exclusions unless the insured was aware, or ought 
reasonably to have  been  aware, of the issue. So, Ive considered Mr S and Mrs Cs 
awareness of the ongoing  damage  and the action they took.
Mr S and Mrs Cs water  bill for the period  in question wasnt  sent to them until after they had 
made a claim with AXA. I also havent  seen anything that suggests they had been alerted by 
their water provider there was high water usage at their property, before they were  sent their 
bill. I note AXA has been in contact with the provider and it confirmed it was unaware of the 
leak until June 2018. So, the high water  bill alone doesnt show  Mr S and Mrs C ought 
reasonably to have  been  aware there was an ongoing leak at their home.
AXA also relies on Mr S and Mrs Cs phone calls to their previous  insurer in February 2018, 
and on the observations of their neighbours builder. The calls took place in early-February. 
In my view, the calls show there was some minor damage to Mr S and Mrs Cs side of the 
party wall, but contrary to the neighbours belief that Mr S and Mrs Cs underfloor heating  
was leaking, their floor was dry. Mr S and Mrs C told their insurer  they were  aware  their 
boiler was leaking, but they didnt  want  to claim for the associated  water damage in the 
hallway due to the likely  low value of the repairs.  
AXA says that whilst  Mr S claimed  the damage  on their side of the wall was minimal during  
his February 2018 calls with the previous insurer, this contradicted  what Mrs C said during 
the first call that month.  However, having listened  to the calls,  its not my view she implied 
the damage was greater  than what he later said it was. I consider them to have been 
consistent.
Ref: DRN48262575The previous  insurer also told AXA that it has a record of Mr S and Mrs C making  contact in 
January 2018,  i.e. before the February 2018  calls, to advise they had noticed water coming 
up through the kitchen floor; but they told the insurer not to worry as it wasnt  causing  much 
damage. Ive explained to AXA that if Im to place any weight on this alleged call, I need  a 
copy of it, or at least, the call notes. However,  this information hasnt been forthcoming.  
Therefore, I cant reasonably rely on this call when reaching my decision.  Ive not seen 
anything that shows the context of the conversation.
The neighbours builder then visited Mr S and Mrs C in mid-February 2018 to try to identify 
the cause of the damage at the neighbours property. His report, which  was written for the 
benefit of the neighbour, explains  Mr S and Mrs Cs side of the party wall had high damp 
readings; and bubbling  paint and mould  was also found in various locations across their 
ground floor. However, no photos  were  taken by the builder, and on balance, Im not 
persuaded the damage was significant  at that time given Mr S and Mrs Cs recent 
discussions with their insurer.
Equally, as highlighted by our investigator, the leak continued for about six weeks after the 
claim was made in May 2018  and then AXA didnt visit Mr S and Mrs C for about another 
six weeks. During this three-month period, the damage is likely to have got worse.  As such,  
AXA doesnt  know the extent of the damage  in May 2018, and therefore, if a leak ought 
reasonably to have  been  apparent long before Mr S and Mrs C attempted to trace  one.
AXA says the builder has confirmed that he told Mr S and Mrs C he didnt consider the boiler 
leak to be the cause of the damage  at their property. I havent seen anything to support what 
AXA says here. But in any event, even if the builder did later say this, it contradicts what he 
wrote in his report at the time. His report noted  he had advised Mr S during his visit that he 
considered it very highly likely the boiler leak was the cause  of all the damage at both 
properties. Therefore,  I dont consider  AXAs reliance on his later recollections to be 
reasonable.
The builder  noted  in his report that it might be prudent for Mr S and Mrs C to ensure there 
are no further water  leaks at their property once their boiler is repaired. The report  doesnt  
however say this message was given  to Mr S and Mrs C, and I havent seen anything that 
shows they were chased further by the neighbour after their boiler  was replaced. The text 
messages to the neighbour also show that Mr S and Mrs C were  advised by their heating 
engineer their heating  system couldnt be the problem because their underfloor heating  
hadnt lost any pressure.
Mr S and Mrs C were  advised by their previous insurer that they needed  to investigate their 
home if their neighbour had ruled  out any issues at his. The text messages show Mr S and 
Mrs C were then advised by their heating  engineer  that he didnt consider their boiler leak 
could have caused damage  to the neighbours property  which  contradicted the builders 
conclusions. Therefore, I accept theres a reasonable  question  here about whether they 
ought to have carried out more investigations after their boiler was replaced.
However, overall, Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for Mr S and Mrs C not to have 
investigated further at that stage. I say this because:
-their underfloor heating had been  ruled out by the heating engineer;
-their floor was dry and the damage on their side of the wall was relatively minor;
Ref: DRN48262576-they hadnt heard further from the neighbour that his damage was continuing to 
worsen after their boiler had been  replaced;  and
-they believed  the other damage at their property had been  caused by their boiler  
leak, which they had resolved
So, taking all the above into consideration, in my view, I cant  fairly decide  Mr S and Mrs C 
ought reasonably  to have been  aware there  was an ongoing leak at their property causing 
gradual damage. On balance, Im more  persuaded that they took reasonable action based 
on the information they had received at that time and the limited damage  they had so far 
observed at their property. Therefore, Im not persuaded AXAs strict application of the 
gradual damage exclusion is fair.
other concerns
AXA says its concerned about the damage  caused during the trace  and access of the leak. 
However, its not said anything that persuades me the damage was caused purposely  or 
was excessive or unnecessary. I also note the work  was undertaken by a relatively well-
known and reputable company. So, Im not persuaded  by the point AXA makes here.
AXA has also pointed towards  Mr S and Mrs Cs objections to the accommodation  they were 
offered at the start of the claim, before it was declined. However, their second child had just 
been born, and in my view, its understandable they were anxious  about the property they 
were moving to and wanted to obtain the best arrangement possible for their needs. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded by this point  either.
To be clear, Ive not considered whether  the accommodation offered was reasonable. Due to 
how the claim progressed, I dont consider that issue to be relevant. Once the remedial 
works do now get arranged, if Mr S and Mrs C have further concern about  their 
accommodation, they will need to make a new complaint.
forensic surveyor invoice
Ive previously given  AXA a copy of Mr S and Mrs Cs invoice for £564.  Its my understanding  
that they appointed  a surveyor in response to AXAs concerns about their damp  proof course 
and related issues that could affect the drying  of the property. Ive already explained to AXA 
that, given it implied  in its complaint response letter it required a detailed report  from Mr S 
and Mrs C, I intended to decide AXA should  cover their surveyors  invoice if I decide AXA 
should accept  the claim.  I also explained  that if AXA wishes to dispute its responsible  for 
these costs, it needed to let me know why. 
AXA hasnt offered anything in response.  Therefore,  it follows that AXA needs to reimburse 
these costs as part of the claim. AXA should  also add interest  at 8% simple per year from 
the date Mr S and Mrs C paid the invoice, until the date AXA reimburses the £564.
compensation
As explained, I understand AXAs initial concerns given the claim was made soon after the 
policy started and due to the calls Mr S and Mrs C made in February  2018.  In my view, it 
was reasonable  for AXA to follow up on those concerns. However, Im not persuaded it 
reached a fair claim decision, or all the points it relied on to support its decision were 
reasonable. 
Ref: DRN48262577Therefore, although  I accept AXA isnt responsible  for the upset and inconvenience it caused  
by following  up its concerns in the first instance, Im satisfied its responsible  for much of the 
upset and inconvenience that followed afterwards. 
At the time Mr S and Mrs C made the claim they had a three-year-old  child,  and their second 
was born four months  later. They have since been living in a damp home and with damaged 
flooring in a main living space that represents  a hazard to their children. The claim has been 
significantly delayed, and I can see from the correspondence that this matter  has been  very 
time consuming and upsetting. Im persuaded the impact on them is likely to have been  
relatively significant given their new born.  
Taking all the above into consideration,  Im not persuaded the £500 award recommended by 
our investigators goes far enough.  Im increasing  this to £1,200.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to:
-settle the claim for the damage  caused by the mains water  leak, subject to the 
remaining policy terms;
-reimburse Mr S and Mrs C £564  for their surveyor  fees, and pay them interest1 at 8% 
simple per year on this amount, from the date they paid the invoice until the date this 
part of the settlement  is paid;  and
 
-compensate Mr S and Mrs C £1,200
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2020.
Vince Martin
Ombudsman
1If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  income 
tax from the interest paid, it should tell Mr S and Mrs C how much tax its taken  off. If requested, it 
should also give them a certificate showing the amount deducted, so they can reclaim it from              
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4826257