K821x#15complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) following the delays in 
receiving the claim payments under her payment protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mrs D made  a claim under her PPI policy. The claim was successful, and the insurer  made 
payments to Creation.
Creation says the insurer sent the claim payments to an incorrect Creation bank account. 
Once the mistake  had been rectified,  the payments were allocated to the correct  account. 
Creation reversed one late payment fee and ensured Mrs Ds credit rating wasnt negatively  
affected.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and thought it was right that the late payment fee 
and Mrs Ds credit rating be reversed, as Mrs D wasnt  at fault for the delays. But he also 
considered, in light of the trouble caused to Mrs D, Creation should pay a further £150 as 
additional compensation.
Creation disagreed as it considered the fault lay with the insurer paying the claim payments 
into an incorrect account.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mrs Ds complaint and for the same  reasons that our adjudicator 
concluded.
Creation says that the insurer paid the claim payments into the wrong account. I note the 
insurer has said that these were the details provided  by Creation. Creation in turn then 
asked for evidence from the insurer about where  the incorrect Creation bank details came 
from. 
Im mindful that Im not deciding a complaint that is between Creation and the insurer  over 
who was at fault for the incorrect bank details.  Creation and the insurer can liaise  with each 
other to get to the bottom  of what went wrong  between them.
What is clear to me is that the insurer did have  a Creation bank accounts details that 
Mrs Ds claim payments  were made to. These  details must have presumably come from 
Creation somehow at some point. 
As the claim payments were paid into this account,  Creation  advised  it isnt an account that it 
would check for incoming claim payments. 
Ref: DRN47855382So there was a delay in this error  being spotted  and Mrs Ds claim payments being paid into 
the right account.  This clearly wasnt the fault of Mrs D. And as our adjudicator alluded to, 
after reviewing the email correspondence between  Creation and the insurer,  it isnt clear who 
was at fault for the incorrect details.
But this impacted Mrs D. And I can see that Mrs D went back and forth with both parties 
trying to get the matter resolved. Because of this I agree with our adjudicators  
recommendation that Creation should pay an additional compensation amount of £150  to 
Mrs D for the unnecessary trouble caused  and to resolve the matter.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
I direct  Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mrs D £150 for the trouble caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4785538