K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a loan in June  2007. Ms M borrowed an additional amount to pay for the PPI policy.
Ms M says Black Horse  Limited (Black  Horse) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Black  Horse made  it clear  that Ms M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this. Ive seen a copy  of Ms 
Ms credit agreement and shes ticked a separate box to select the PPI  which I note is 
referred to as optional. Shes also signed the separate  PPI section, in addition to signing 
for the loan itself.  And I think  if Ms M didnt want the PPI, she wouldnt have ticked  the box or 
signed this section.
Black Horse  recommended  the PPI to Ms M so it had to check that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. I note Ms 
Ms representative says she had a pre-existing  medical condition at the time the policy  was 
sold, and she worked part-time. But when Ms Ms representative submitted her complaint  it 
didnt specify when  the policy was sold, nor did it give any other information about  Ms Ms 
recollection of the sale at all. So I cant be sure  based on this alone  about what  the 
representative said.
I can see the document Black Horse completed at the time of sale. It looks  as though Black 
Horse asked Ms M questions  about  both of these things,  and she confirmed she hadnt  
taken any medication  or seen a doctor  in the previous year, and also that she worked full-
time.
Our adjudicator contacted Ms Ms representative three times to gain some more  information 
about her medical  condition and her working  arrangements, as well as trying to contact Ms 
M directly.  Its disappointing  that Ms Ms representative didnt  respond  to the requests the 
adjudicator sent,  but instead  continued to raise the same points without providing any further 
information.
Having considered everything, I think Black Horse  made a suitable recommendation based  
on Ms Ms answers  to its questions at the time of sale.  It doesnt look as though she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover, and she seems  to have had a 
need for the cover.  
Ref: DRN44448162Its possible the information Black Horse  gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out  so it looks  like she wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
Black Horse  set out the cost of the loan and PPI separately and clearly,  and I think  it was 
affordable to Ms M. So I dont think better information about  the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Black  Horse doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
But Black Horse has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms M because: 
Black  Horse got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Ms M about  that. Because  Black Horse didnt tell Ms 
M, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Black Horse has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms Ms representative has raised. But as Ive explained, the 
complaint they raised on behalf  of Ms M doesnt  appear to have taken into account  Ms Ms 
personal circumstances, and we didnt receive the information our adjudicators asked for 
several times. 
So I dont  think this PPI policy  was mis-sold.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Black  Horse Limited does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms M.
But Black Horse Limited does have  to pay back to Ms M any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4444816