K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that Unum Ltd (Unum) refused to pay a claim under his personal   
income protection plan when he became unable to work due to ill health. 
background
Mr A suffers  with serious back problems which resulted  from an operation he had in 2008.  
He has an income protection policy with Unum which  he tried to claim on in October 2016 
following a fall he had at work.  
Mr A has told us that after the fall he experienced a worsening in his existing symptoms,  
reduced mobility and some incontinence. This prevented him from returning to work and so 
he contacted Unum to make a claim on his income protection policy.  Initially Mr A contacted 
Unum and was told he would have to wait to claim until after the deferment  period had 
lapsed. 
When he contacted  Unum again  he was told that he hadnt notified it in time and his claim 
was denied. However Mr A complained about this and explained he had contacted  Unum  in 
October immediately after his fall and had been told he had to wait. Unum investigated this 
matter and confirmed  that the claim wasnt time barred and would be considered. 
Unum duly looked  into Mr As claim and asked  him for supporting  medical evidence and any 
other relevant documentation. Mr A provided Unum with letters  from his GP and consultant  
as well as a copy of his occupational health report,  which had found he was unable  to work 
due to incapacity. Mr A had been  let go at work  due to the findings in the report. 
After reviewing the information provided  by Mr A, Unum contacted him to say it was 
declining his claim. Unum  said that under the terms of the policy Mr A had to be able to 
confirm that he was incapacitated and unable to work. Unum stated that none of the 
information provided to it explained the symptoms that Mr A was experiencing or was able to 
outline pathological reasons supporting his claim  that he was unable to work. Unum said that 
without this type of evidence  his claim was excluded under the policys  terms and conditions.
Mr A disagreed with Unums findings  and brought  his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint  and found that Unum were entitled  to decline the 
claim under the policys terms  and conditions. Mr A disagreed with the investigators findings  
and so the case has been passed  to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think Unum has 
applied the terms  of the policy incorrectly and so I wont be asking  it to do any more in 
relation to Mr As claim.
What I need to consider here is whether or not Unum has applied the terms of the policy  in a 
reasonable way.
The terms in the policy document  state  that:
Ref: DRN44497042 Acceptance and continuation of a claim will be subject  to us receiving sufficient and 
satisfactory medical evidence to substantiate incapacity.
The policy terms include  the following definition for incapacity:
Incapacity  or incapacitated means you cannot perform the material  and substantial  duties of 
your occupation because of your illness  or injury.
Mr As job at the time he fell was as a call handler, which required him to sit in front of a 
computer and take calls, so it was sedentary in nature. Therefore Unum required Mr A to 
provide medical  evidence  that indicates he was unable  to carry out a sedentary role. And it 
doesnt think hes done that. 
Mr A has provided letters from his GP and consultant and these letters  clearly  outline the 
symptoms Mr A was experiencing at the time but unfortunately they give no indication  as to 
what was causing  the symptoms. Likewise  the occupational health report which  stated Mr A 
was unable to return to work due to ill health,  was based on Mr As testimony  as opposed to 
any medical evidence  that clarified the direct  cause of Mr As symptoms.  
As Mr A already had existing back problems Unum  was trying to establish what  had changed 
that prevented  him from returning to work,  especially to a role that was sedentary in nature. 
And unfortunately, despite all of the tests carried out on Mr A by his medical team,  he was 
unable to provide  anything  that explained the change in his symptoms after the fall took 
place. 
I have read and considered the report that Mr As occupational health team provided after 
his dismissal and the findings in that are based  on Mr As symptoms but doesnt contain any 
explanation of those symptoms either. And because Mr A was unable to provided Unum with 
sufficient and satisfactory medical evidence to substantiate incapacity I cant ask it to pay his 
claim as he hasnt been able to meet the terms of the policy. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr A and I understand how frustrating it must 
be to not be able to claim  on a policy  that is supposed to provide cover for the circumstances 
in which  Mr A became  unable to work.  But having  reviewed the terms of the policy, as well 
as the content  of the evidence provided by Mr A, Im not able to say Unum  have applied the 
terms incorrectly, and so I am unable to uphold Mr As complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr As complaint  against  Unum Ltd
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4449704