K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains she was sold a Free Standing AVC policy  (FSAVC) by Zurich  Assurance 
Ltd (Zurich) and wasnt told about  the option  to buy added  years from her occupational  
pension scheme  (OPS).
background
Mrs S said Zurich sold her an FASAVC but didnt  discuss the in house AVC or highlight that 
added years were available from her OPS.  She had excellent career and salary  prospects 
and was in a senior leadership position  when she retired, so this wouldve been  a better 
option. Because added  years wasnt discussed the additional benefits of indexation in 
payment, spouses  and dependants pensions, ill health and death  in service benefits  werent  
gained. At the time she was risk averse and added  years  wouldve been better suited  to her 
risk profile. 
One of her reasons for taking advice was to support  early retirement.  She didnt think the 
adviser properly considered whether  an FSAVC  was the most suitable  vehicle. In particular 
she didnt recall any illustration of the potential benefits at early  retirement;  she wasnt 
paying a big premium likely to generate a large  fund to retire on, which suggested  her early 
retirement wasnt realistically achievable on the basis advised.
Zurich said Mrs S took advice in spring  1991.  At the time she was employed by a local 
council and member  of an OPS. She agreed  to pay £37.50 per month net of income tax and 
that this would increase by indexation  each year. She set a target retirement age of 57 and 
continued payments  until October 2008  and took her benefits  in 2011 just six months  after 
her 57th birthday.  She bought an annuity  in the open market with her FSAVC funds.
It accepted that it hadnt done enough  to make her aware of the in house alternatives 
available to her. It agreed that Mrs S couldnt  have  retired early based on her FSAVC  
contributions. But it said the plan was set up to enhance her OPS benefits  not that the 
FSAVC would provide  sufficient income on its own. Its notes showed her retirement plans 
were discussed. The advice to take out the FSAVC was to mitigate  the impact of any 
reduction for early  payment in her OPS if she took her benefits  before age 60. It said the 
contribution level Mrs S could afford to pay probably  wasnt sufficient to have allowed her to 
buy added  years. It felt it was unlikely she wouldve purchased added  years.  But it accepted  
that had she had all the information she wouldve  selected the in house AVC option. It 
carried out a loss assessment on that basis and made an offer of around £3,000 after 
allowing for interest and tax. It was clear that she hoped  to retire at 57 (and noted her 
husband was 3 years older) and the occupational scheme rules required a reduction for 
early retirement. It wasnt reasonable to assume  there wouldnt be a reduction for early 
payment even if it wasnt uncommon  for that to happen.
Mrs S said she didnt  need to buy all the missing  added  years and didnt think  the cost 
wouldve been prohibitive. The fact she increased her contributions  by indexation also 
reflected that her contributions  would have increased with her pay. She also said that other  
factors such  as her age, job prospects likely  earning  increases and attitude to risk all pointed  
towards a likelihood she wouldve opted  for added years.  She also said that at the time many  
people in her type of work retired early without  reduction so it couldnt be assumed that a 
reduction would apply. In reality  she did retire at 57 and her benefits were  reduced for early  
payment, but it didnt  stop her retiring.
Ref: DRN40768632The investigator upheld  the complaint. She said the option of added years wasnt  raised at 
the time Mrs S was advised.  Shed considered a range of factors  including age at the time of 
application, stability of employment and attitude to risk. At the time she was married  and 
expecting a child and her attitude to risk was shown  as very cautious. She therefore 
considered herself  to be risk averse.  Shed  joined the employers  scheme at age 22 so only 
needed another two or three years to reach  the maximum. The cost would likely have been 
around 1% of salary  so around £15.52 per month per year,  so for three years around £46 
per month. So by comparison to the £50 gross paid to the FSAVC  it wouldve been 
affordable. Her risk profile pointed  towards  added years.  At that time the adviser couldnt 
have advised  that added  years was a better option.  But had he explained the availability she 
thought Mrs S would  most likely have considered buying added  years as the most viable 
option for her. She said the loss calculation should be carried out on that basis  and if it 
wasnt possible to pay it into the scheme  it should  be paid to her by lump sum less an 
allowance for tax at 20%.
Mrs S accepted the investigators view. Zurich  didnt agree. It said it was clear Mrs S 
intended to retire at 57. This was clear from the documents and was due to her husband  
being 3 years older than her. She did retire  at 57 and took her FSAVC benefits. It said that 
had she opted  for added years she wouldve experienced a significant  penalty to her main 
scheme and added years benefits. As she clearly  intended to retire early it didnt think she 
wouldve chosen to pay into the scheme knowing she would incur a penalty.  
The investigator said she considered what Zurich had said and also reviewed the scheme  
booklet for Mrs Ss occupational scheme. She didnt  agree that the reduction was significant 
enough to change her view. 
Zurich still didnt agree and wanted  a copy of the scheme booklet and details of the cost of 
purchasing added years as being 1% per annum.
My provisional decision
Zurich has accepted that it didnt do enough  to make  Mrs S aware of the other  options  of an 
in house AVC and the potential for added years. What  is at dispute between  the parties is 
the award for loss consequent upon  that mistake. Mrs S maintains  she wouldve bought 
added years. Zurich  maintains the loss should be measured by reference to the AVC offered 
by the AVC scheme of the OPS.
At the time the adviser working  with Mrs S wouldve been tied to Zurich. The regulator rules 
applicable at that time said the advisers should:
have regard to the consumers financial position generally and to any rights they may 
have under a workplace pension; and
give the consumer  all information relevant to their dealings  with the representative in 
question.
So it is clear that the adviser should  have  been  aware of the possibility that Mrs Ss OPS 
might have offered  added years,  especially  as it was a public sector OPS and recommended 
Mrs S found  out about her AVC options including added years.
However the fact that added years were  available doesnt automatically  mean  that mightve 
been the better option for Mrs, nor that she wouldve taken that option. Sometimes added 
Ref: DRN40768633years were  perceived to be expensive.  In hindsight they may now seem  a better option 
where investment  returns have been  poor, but that also doesnt mean that option wouldve 
been taken at the time. I need  to consider whether given the circumstances at the time had 
Mrs S been  directed to her OPS  she would likely  have chosen added years.
I need to consider a number of factors.
 age
Younger consumers are more likely to leave pension schemes before retirement  than older 
consumers however at the time Mrs S was 37, married  and expecting  a child and already in 
a management  role. This would point towards the likelihood  she would stay with the scheme 
until retirement and therefore  added years  could be considered.
 future job prospects 
Mrs S had an established career which offered a public sector pension scheme even if she 
moved between employers for the job she performed. The likelihood of disruption  to her 
pension scheme  membership was therefore  lower. 
 likely  earnings increases 
At the time of the advice Mrs S was already in a management role which suggests she might 
progress further  and hence her pay and pension would increase. The higher  likelihood of 
salary increases suggests she might be more likely to benefit from added  years.
 attitude to risk 
Even if AVCs and FSAVCs looked  less expensive at the time they would usually involve 
more risk than added years. While they may still have been suitable  for a consumer 
prepared to take a small  degree of risk Mrs S is said to be risk-averse  and this made the 
choice of added years more likely.
additional benefits
Mrs S was married and expecting a child at the time of advice so widows  and dependants 
benefits that would be provided  by added years  would  also have made this option more  
likely.
early retirement
I have also considered that Mrs S said she intended  to retire early. Zurich  have given weight  
to this. They believe she always  intended to do this because her husband was a little older 
than her. Shed need to retire early to retire with him and she did in fact retire early.  It felt this 
wouldve meant added years wouldnt have been  attractive due to the reduction  that would 
be applied  for early payment of added years  in her OPS. 
But I dont agree. I say that because the reduction for early payment  isnt a penalty  but a 
reflection of the fact the benefits are paid sooner  than planned and will be paid longer than 
anticipated. In effect  it ensures she gets similar value benefits because  although  the amount 
is lower it is paid for longer.
Ref: DRN40768634By contrast  AVC benefits suffer an actual penalty  for early retirement. I say that because 
they have a shorter period of time for investment returns and therefore the amount that is 
available at retirement is affected.  Secondly any annuity will offer less annual  pension for 
someone of a younger age, again  because  it is paid for longer. So it seems  AVCs would 
have been less beneficial. Even if I am wrong  in this analysis an effective reduction in the 
size of the pension is a natural outcome of both options. So I dont think  it is a reason to say 
that Mrs S wouldnt have chosen  the added years  option.
costs
Zurich has challenged  the assumption that Mrs S couldve  bought added years  for about 1% 
of her salary per annum. It has not been possible to substantiate this figure despite direct  
contact with the OPS  in this case. However  I dont think that matters. It seems that Mrs S 
was prepared to pay around £50 per month  gross  to secure additional pension benefits.  Had 
Mrs S explored the added years option she wouldve had a choice  about  how may years  and 
day or just days of added  years she would purchase  with that amount. She has indicated 
that she wouldnt necessarily have bought all of the missing years  she needed to get to 
maximum benefit. So I dont think the costs wouldve  deterred  her but wouldve affected how 
many added years she bought. 
Having considered all of the above factors on balance  I am of the view that Mrs S wouldve  
chosen to buy added  years instead of money purchase AVCs.  I dont think  the offer by 
Zurich to compensate  her on the basis she wouldve taken money purchase AVC rather  than 
the FSAVC is fair or reasonable in the circumstances.
My conclusion is that a fair outcome would be for the business to put Mrs S as far as 
possible, into the position she would  now be in but for the unsuitable advice and missing 
information and that the loss should  be calculated  as stipulated by the regulator on the basis 
she wouldve taken added  years.
I proposed to uphold  this complaint and direct that Zurich Assurance Ltd should calculate  
and pay to Mrs S compensation as follows.
loss calculation
The lost added years  have to be valued.  That calculation  should be carried out using the 
guidance for the FSAVC review (as updated  in October 2017)  as set out by the regulator. 
The most recent assumptions  published  on our website should be used in the calculation. 
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions published at the date of that decision. 
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mrs Ss pension scheme. The 
payment should  allow  for any available tax relief.  The compensation shouldnt  be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing  protection  or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would  have been taxed according  to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction of 15% overall  from the loss 
adequately reflects  this.
Ref: DRN40768635The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mrs S 
within 90 days of the date Zurich receives  notification of her acceptance  of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 
90 days, that it takes Zurich to pay Mrs S this compensation.
Mrs S said she agreed with my provisional  decision.
Zurich said its view remained unchanged  for all the reasons it had given to date. In addition it 
disagreed with my statement that there  wasnt a penalty for early retirement despite the fact 
this had been commented on extensively  during the complaint.  It said its understanding is 
there would have been a penalty  for early retirement  by way of a factor that would have been 
applied to the benefit so Mrs S would receive  a lower amount that had she retired at 60. It 
was dismayed that there was a suggestion  this didnt exist.
It also felt that the decision  point wasnt about receiving a benefit  sooner for longer. Because  
the benefit was lower  her decision was whether she was prepared  to receive a lower  benefit 
from an affordability perspective. There are no guarantees how long some one will live in 
retirement so it didnt think this formed part of the decision making process.
It didnt agree that there was an actual  penalty  for the AVC benefit. It said that because  it 
was always planned  that she would retire  at 57 ensuring she was penalty free. It still 
remained of the view that added years wouldve been dismissed due to the inevitable 
penalty that would have  applied and it seems inconceivable  to invest  in such  an 
arrangement when you are aware of this.
It felt that the proposal that Mrs S wouldve bought  such  number of added years  as the £50 
wouldve bought  was not referred to in the loss calculation. This should be included in any 
direction if I didnt change my view. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have not changed my 
mind for the following  reasons.
Zurich suggests  I said there wasnt a penalty for early  retirement which had always  been 
accepted. But that isnt correct. I accepted  that there was a reduction  but not that it should 
be characterised as a penalty. I said the following:-
I say that because the reduction for early payment isnt a penalty but a reflection of the fact 
the benefits are paid sooner than planned and will be paid longer than anticipated. In effect it 
ensures she gets similar  value benefits  because  although the amount is lower  it is paid for 
longer.
My point was that the purpose of the reduction isnt to penalise the recipient it isnt a 
punishment. It is unhelpful to characterise the reduction for early retirement in that way as 
the reduction aims to give Mrs S a fair pension for the reasons given. . 
As Zurich says it isnt possible  to know how long someone will leave and therefore  how long 
a pension will remain in payment. However  in making an adjustment for early  payment the 
Ref: DRN40768636scheme actuary will have made  assumptions about  life expectancy  to ensure in effect that 
the value paid is fair.
It note its comments  about there  not being  an actual  penalty for the AVC benefit  as it always 
planned that Mrs S would retire at 57 ensuring  she was penalty free. I think it is unhelpful  to 
talk about penalties. As I said before  the reality of an AVC benefit taken early  is that it has a 
shorter time to benefit from investment growth and achieve any target. In addition the money 
needs is there to support income for longer and any annuity rate available  at an earlier  age 
will be lower to reflect the longer potential period of payment. So while  there may not be an 
actual penalty there is a consequence.  Even if Zurich is right and its advice was based on 
assumption she retire at age 57 I still dont think that this wouldve made a difference  for all 
the reason given in my provisional decision.
I dont agree that added  years wouldve been  dismissed due to the inevitable  penalty that 
would have applied because as I have  explained  there is no penalty just an adjustment for 
early payment. While  Zurich says it seems  inconceivable  to invest in such an arrangement  I 
dont agree. It gives heavy weight  to what it calls a penalty but which  isnt a penalty. Even if I 
am wrong  in that my assessment that Mrs S would most  likely  have opted for added years  
was based on all of the factors that I considered  and not solely  on this one factor. Having 
reconsidered all of the factors my view is unchanged for the reasons already given.
I note the comments that the loss calculation should  reflect my comment  that Mrs S wouldve 
bought such number of added years  as the gross contribution wouldve bought at that time. 
But this was not referred to in the loss calculation. 
This should in effect be implanted  as I said the purpose of the loss for the business  to put 
Mrs S as far as possible, into the position  she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice 
and missing information and that the loss should  be calculated as stipulated by the regulator  
on the basis she wouldve  taken  added years. 
That shouldve meant that Mrs S wouldve  been  assumed to buy such number of added  
years as she couldve purchased at that with the gross contribution. However for the 
avoidance of doubt I have  added  an express statement to that effect to avoid any 
uncertainty. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct that Zurich  Assurance Ltd should calculate  and pay to Mrs 
S compensation as follows. In making that calculation the fair outcome would be for the 
business to put Mrs S as far as possible,  into the position she would now be in but for the 
unsuitable advice  and missing information and that the loss should be calculated as 
stipulated by the regulator on the basis she wouldve taken added years. 
For these purposes it should  be assumed that at the time she wouldve  purchased  such 
number of added years and days or added years as she couldve purchased with the £50.00 
gross monthly contribution. It should be assumed that the fact she opted to increase  her 
contributions each year meant that she wouldve continued to make contributions as her 
salary increased and therefore  contributions  continued until the date she actually ceased 
making additional voluntary contributions.
loss calculation
Ref: DRN40768637Zurich Assurance  Ltd must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators  
pension review guidance as updated  by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mrs Ss acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ss pension plan.  The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to her income  tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional  deduction  of 15% overall  from the loss adequately  reflects  this. 
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might 
exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
Determination and money award : I require Zurich Assurance Ltd to pay Mrs S compensation 
as set out above, up to a maximum of £150,000. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mrs S 
within 90 days of the date Zurich Assurance Ltd receives notification of her acceptance  of 
my final decision. Further  interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 
8% per year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, 
in excess of 90 days, that it takes Zurich Assurance  Ltd to pay Mrs S this compensation.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I also recommend  that Zurich Assurance Ltd pays  Mrs S the balance. I further 
recommend interest  to be added to this balance  at the rate of 8% per year simple  for any 
time, in excess of 90 days,  that it takes Zurich Assurance Ltd to pay Mrs S from the date it 
receives notification  of her acceptance  of the decision, as set out above.
If Mrs S accepts  my determination,  the money  award is binding  on Zurich  Assurance Ltd. My 
recommendation is not binding on Zurich Assurance  Ltd. Further,  its unlikely  that Mrs S can 
accept my determination and go to court  to ask for the balance  of the compensation owing to 
her after the money  award has been paid.  Mrs S may want to consider getting independent 
legal advice before  deciding  whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S
to accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4076863