K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about his pension trading account. He says Interactive Investor  Services 
Limited (ii) unfairly blocked the account and caused unnecessary difficulty  when handling a 
withdrawal request.
background 
Some time ago, Mr H opened a trading account  with a firm thats no longer in existence. His 
account was moved  onto another  firm in 2009, before moving again in 2017  to ii. 
ii told us that when they took Mr Hs account on, they didnt inherit all of the documents  that 
ought to have been associated with it  for example, a copy  of a bank statement.
In January 2018, some new regulations came into force by way of the Markets  in Financial 
Instruments Directive, known as MiFID II. One of the new requirements  was that firms  like ii 
needed to know  what unique reference code was associated  with certain types  of account so 
regulators could  monitor transactions. Without the code, they couldnt deal with the account.  
The code is known  as a Legal  Entity Identifier (LEI).
ii emailed Mr H in late November 2017  to tell him about this and warn him that his account 
would be blocked  if the information  wasnt received  on time  the deadline being 
3 January 2018.
Mr H got in touch with ii on 8 January 2018 to let them know he didnt  yet have a LEI 
because of delays  with the stock  exchange. He also explained that the European Securities 
and Markets Authority  (ESMA) had extended the deadline for LEI reporting by six months.  ii 
said they didnt  know about this, so Mr H shared some information about it with them.
Mr H was unhappy that his account remained blocked, so he wanted  to speak to a manager. 
As there wasnt one available, he was offered a call back. But Mr H refused this and said 
hed wait for someone to become available. But after more than ten minutes,  iis call handler  
said they had other  customers  calling in, so they needed  to end the call.
Mr H called another three times that day  the first call disconnected rather  quickly, the 
second he was promised a call back and the third he was told ii needed time to look into 
things for him.  
The next day, Mr H had his LEI number so he called ii to share  it verbally before following up 
with an email that evening. His account  was unblocked on 9 January 2018  although he 
wasnt aware of this at the time.
Later that month, Mr H wanted to withdraw some money from his account.  But as ii didnt 
have a copy of his bank statement on file, they wanted this before releasing the funds. 
Mr H made  a complaint  about the difficulties  hed been having and the time hed spent 
resolving problems. ii acknowledged they could  have  provided a better service so they 
offered £50 compensation. But remaining unhappy  with this, Mr H asked for our help. 
An investigator looked into what happed and ii increased their compensation offer to £150. 
Our investigator thought the offer was reasonable given  the service  shortcomings, but as 
Mr H didnt agree his case was passed to me. 
Ref: DRN45830792my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with what our 
investigator said, for broadly the same reasons.
the LEI requirements and deadline
Providing ii with a LEI is a legal requirement, so its right that after the regulations  came into 
force ii needed Mr Hs before allowing further activity  on the account.  
ii told Mr H about the requirement a month  before it was needed, so Im satisfied this gave 
him sufficient time to consider what was asked of him. Ive seen a copy  of the notification  
and it provided a link with the steps  involved in obtaining the LEI, how to record  it with ii and 
warning that trading restrictions would apply if the deadline  was missed. So I think  it was 
clear to Mr H what he needed to do. 
Mr H says he had trouble getting  his LEI and that the issues  with backlogs were  recognised  
by ESMA. Ive looked into this and although it does appear a temporary workaround  was put 
in place, I dont  think it has much impact on this complaint. I say that because Mr H needed 
to provide his LEI number  at some point  whether  that was in January 2018, or later that 
summer. He had to take the same  steps  to obtain it and the same steps to record it with ii. 
And the impact of ii wanting it sooner rather than later just meant  his account was frozen. 
Looking into this impact, I cant  see that any loss flows from the blocked account as Mr H 
wasnt waiting to trade  Ive looked  at his account  history and cant  see he took any trading  
action as soon  as he knew his account was unblocked. And there is nothing to suggest  he 
wanted to trade in the short period the account was blocked. So while I recognise ii made a 
mistake in not following ESMA or the FCAs workaround, it didnt impact Mr Hs position so I 
make no award. 
trouble withdrawing  money
Mr H also complains about  the trouble he had in withdrawing money from his account. This 
was because ii asked  for confirmation of his bank statement as it wasnt on file. ii explained  
to us that the account was initially set up as a trust account, so they werent passed certain 
documentation, such as the bank statement, when they took Mr Hs account on. They  also 
explained that rather than carrying out a full account review,  the previous firms approach 
had been to ask for information  when  required  in order to minimise inconvenience.
I realise taking on accounts  from other businesses doesnt always  lead to a neat paper trail 
and can sometimes give rise to gaps in documentation, especially when the accounts  were 
opened a long time ago. But I do think ii made  a mistake here  they ought to have made 
sure Mr Hs account was set up properly and was compliant from when they took over. 
Ref: DRN45830793But in thinking about this mistake,  and what impact  it had on Mr H, I dont think ii should  
compensate him. ii took an instruction to withdraw a considerable  sum of money from the 
account. They asked  for a bank statement, but were  able to act on a copy in order  to 
process things quickly  for Mr H. So although  there  was an element of inconvenience  for 
Mr H in having to make calls and send the statement, this needed to be done at some  point. 
So rather  like what I said above about the LEI, documentation had to be provided at some 
point and the same steps needed  to be followed.  Seeing as the withdrawal was actioned 
swiftly I make no award. 
iis customer service
Not only was Mr H unhappy  with the LEI and withdrawal issues,  he was also unhappy with 
how ii went about handling things for him. Ive listened to the five calls Mr H had with ii on 
8 and 9 January 2018. Having done so, I agree that the service fell short  of what I would 
expect to see. But I think the £150 thats been offered is enough to compensate Mr H for the 
upset. I say that because  I dont  think  it was unreasonable  for ii to end the first call when 
Mr H declined a call back, and I cant see they purposely hung up on the second call. Mr H 
was promised a call back which didnt  happen,  but I think  the offer is enough to address this. 
Mr H also felt his complaint wasnt handled  in good time and that ii took too long to provide  
its files to our service. I can see that things took longer than wed like, but complaint handling 
isnt an activity that is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. This means that I cannot  
award compensation for the way a firm has handled  a complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I think the compensation offer is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances so my decision is that Interactive Investor Services  Limited should pay 
Mr H £150 if it hasnt  already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4583079