K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 2002. The policy covered Mr M only. Mr M and Miss K say Nationwide  Building 
Society mis-sold  them  the PPI.
background
I sent Mr M and Miss K and Nationwide a provisional decision on 17 July 2019  to explain 
why I wasnt intending  to uphold the complaint.  An extract from my provisional decision is set 
out below:
Nationwide has sent us a copy  of Mr M and Miss Ks application form for the mortgage. This 
included a section  on PPI, with a space  for them to sign if they wanted to take it out. And 
Mr M and Miss K have  signed in the space. The application form also shows the benefit 
amount and type of cover  of the policy, and that only Mr M was covered.
Nationwide has also sent us a copy of the mortgage offer letter for Mr M and Miss Ks 
mortgage. And this says the PPI policy in enclosed and says what the cost will be.
Based on this, I think Nationwide made it clear to Mr M and Miss K that they had a choice 
about the PPI. And that Mr M and Miss K chose to take it, knowing they didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Nationwide gave Mr M and Miss K any personalised 
advice about the PPI. So I dont  think it recommended the PPI to them. This means 
Nationwide didnt have  to check if the PPI was right for Mr M and Miss K. But it did still have 
to make sure they got the information they needed to decide  if the PPI was right for them.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr M and Miss K about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But, the policy couldve paid out for longer than Mr M and Miss K have 
told us Mr M wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And it wouldve meant they didnt  need  to 
rely on any savings or other means  they had to make their mortgage  repayments if Mr M 
wasnt earning. So the policy could have been  useful  to them  if something  went wrong.
Mr M and Miss K have  told us Mr M had been  diagnosed with two ongoing  medical 
conditions at the time of the sale. And the terms of the PPI mean these wouldnt have been 
covered for the first twelve  months of the policy. But they would have been covered after 
this. And, based on what Mr M and Miss K have said about the conditions, I think  the fact 
that they would have  been covered after the first twelve months means that the policy could  
still have been  useful to them.
A mortgage is also a serious financial commitment. And Mr M and Miss Ks property couldve 
been at risk if theyd  failed  to make their repayments. So I think  they couldve found  the 
protection the policy offered appealing.
And so I dont think better information about  the PPI would have put Mr M and Miss K off 
taking it out.
Ive also thought about whether Nationwide needs  to give Mr M and Miss K some of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont 
apply to certain types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As 
Mr M and Miss Ks mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008,  they dont 
Ref: DRN40281872apply. So Nationwide doesnt need  to refund any of the commission Mr M and Miss K paid 
for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
I said Id consider any further information  Mr M and Miss K and Nationwide  sent in.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M and Miss Ks case.
Nationwide didnt have  anything further  to add following my provisional  decision
Mr M and Miss K said they didnt know about the terms of the policy and that they wouldve 
asked for a better  policy,  rather than one which didnt cover  them  for the first year.  But I 
explained in my provisional decision  why I didnt think better information about the PPI would 
have put Mr M and Miss K off taking  it out.
And most PPI policies  excluded claims for pre-existing  medical  conditions  for the life of the 
policy. So this PPI policy was actually better  than most, as it only excluded  claims for pre-
existing medical conditions for the first twelve  months. And I think  its unlikely 
Mr M and Miss K wouldve been  able to find a policy that didnt exclude claims for pre-
existing medical conditions as all. So I still think this policy couldve been useful to them, 
even though Mr Ms conditions wouldnt have been  covered for the first twelve  months.
So I still think the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision are correct. And so I still 
dont think this complaint  should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr M and Miss Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss K 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4028187