K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1993. Mr and Mrs P say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
I think Santander made it clear Mr and Mrs P didnt  have  to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant  remember  this.
Ive seen a copy  of the application for the mortgage. Theres a section on the application 
called Policies for your protection.  It then says, do you wish to take out our 
Paymentcare?. There are two boxes   one for yes and one for no. I can see a tick has 
been placed in the yes box. Mr and Mrs P have  also signed  the agreement  as a whole. 
So I think it likely they chose to buy the cover at the time.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs P so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them. The policy would have covered Mr P only so Ive mainly thought about his 
circumstances when  coming to my decision. And based  on what Ive seen of Mr Ps 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was suitable. For example he wasnt affected by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems  to have had a need for 
the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable at the time.  So I dont think better information about  the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs P has said - including what  they have said about 
Mr P having  good  employment at the time and neither of them being aware of the cost of the 
cover. But these points  dont  change  my decision.
I appreciate Mr P might have thought he was in good employment with a good sick pay 
benefit. But the security  of employment  isnt always guaranteed, so the PPI could have come 
in useful if Mr P lost his job. This policy would have paid out for up to 36 months if Mr P was 
too sick to work, or had an injury.  It would have paid out on top of any sick pay he might 
have got from his employer. And based on what Mr P has told be about the level of sick pay 
he would  have got, I think this policy would have  paid out for longer than his sick pay would 
have lasted.
Ref: DRN43836662Given how long ago this PPI policy was sold, it isnt clear to me how the cost of the PPI was 
presented to them. But even if Santander  should have presented  the cost of the cover better 
than it did, I still think Mr and Mrs P would have bought it. I say this because  the cost of the 
policy was comparable to other policies available  elsewhere on the market.  And given the 
serious consequences of Mr and Mrs P defaulting  on a debt secured against  their home, I 
think theyd have benefit from the protection  and peace of mind  the policy offered.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs P paid on their PPI  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ps PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Santander has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ps commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  Santander  treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay Mr and Mrs P back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4383666