K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr P says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr P says he cant recall PPI being mentioned  at the time of sale and he didnt know the 
policy was optional. But based on the evidence Ive seen I think  Lloyds  made it clear that 
Mr P didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why he cant remember this. I say this because Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ps credit card 
application form in which there is a tick in the yes box for PPI. There was also the option to 
tick no to the PPI. So I think Mr P wouldve known the policy was optional.  And Mr P signed  
this application  form - so I think it reflected what he wanted at the time. 
Mr P says Lloyds didnt recommend the PPI to him. Lloyds  doesnt know if it recommended  
the policy - but its willing to treat this as a recommended sale. As things stand,  there isnt 
enough information to determine  this point. But being able to do so isnt crucial  to the 
outcome because, had Lloyds recommended the policy,  I think it wouldve been a suitable 
recommendation to have  made for the reasons I set out below. As a result, Ive considered 
the complaint  on the same basis as Lloyds.
As a recommended  sale Lloyds had to check that the PPI was right for Mr P  and based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. Upon a successful claim the 
PPI wouldve  paid 10% of Mr Ps outstanding  monthly balance, up to £750  per month, for up 
to 12 months. And as Mr P had no sick pay or savings at the time, I think he had a need for 
this cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Lloyds doesnt  need to refund everything  
Mr P paid for it. But Lloyds has already offered to give Mr P back some of the cost of the PPI 
and I dont think it needs to do anything more.  I understand Lloyds has already sent Mr P a 
cheque for this amount, if Mr P needs the cheque  re-issued he should contact Lloyds 
directly. 
Ref: DRN46860352my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4686035