K822xcomplaint
Ms A complains  that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) didnt update  her 
credit file to show that she had settled her debt.
background 
Ms A says that she received a letter dated December 2014 saying that full payment on her 
agreement had been made  and that the judgement recorded against  her had been satisfied. 
She says that although this happened  in December 2014, her credit file showed the 
judgement as unsatisfied until February  2019 when it was updated to satisfied. She says she 
had to chase VWFS about this issue on several  occasions and that her credit standing has 
been damaged  for a number of years due to the incorrect information  being recorded on her 
credit file.
VWFS says that Ms A entered  into two agreements with it. The first related to a vehicle 
acquired in December 2009. A settlement figure was requested in February 2011 and part 
settlement was received from the insurance  company but a shortfall  remained.  The 
agreement was terminated in January 2012 and the outstanding debt written  off in August  
2016.
The second  agreement related to a vehicle acquired in January 2010. Payments were 
missed and a default letter was issued  in January 2012. The vehicle was recovered from the 
roadside in April 2012 and the agreement terminated in May 2012. Ms A was issued with a 
liability letter  in October 2012 and she made contact to set up a payment plan. VWFS says 
at this point the debt had been  passed  to another party to manage  and so Ms A was advised 
to contact the collecting agent  directly.  
In January 2013, VWFS says the collecting agent said it would be pursuing a money 
judgement against  Ms A. This was obtained in February 2013.  
Following our investigation, VWFS was sent evidence to show that the judgement  recorded  
in February 2013  wasnt updated to show it had been satisfied. It made  an offer of £450 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  this had caused Ms A. 
Our adjudicator thought that the offer made by VWFS of £450 was reasonable. 
Ms A didnt think the offer of £450  was sufficient given the five years she had been  dealing 
with the issue.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A is complaining that a judgement  recorded  on her credit  file should have been  updated  
to show it had been satisfied but this didnt happen.  She has provided evidence  to show that 
the judgement  was satisfied in December 2014 but that her credit file was not updated to 
show this until February  2019.  I understand that as the judgement was recorded in February  
2013 this has now been removed from her credit file due to more than six years  having 
passed.
Ref: DRN41209362I can see why Ms A is upset  that her credit  file wasnt updated  to show the judgement as 
being satisfied  in December 2014.  I have looked through  the information provided  and based  
on the contact  notes I have seen Ms A raised  the issue  of the information on her credit file in 
January 2019.  
I have nothing to suggest that the judgement was recorded incorrectly and it is correct that 
this will have stayed on her credit  file for six years. This will have affected her overall  credit  
position. Ms A also had other issues that would have affected  her credit position  as I note 
the reference to bankruptcy in the information provided. That said, by not updating  the 
judgement to show it had been satisfied, Ms As credit file wasnt reflecting the true situation 
regarding this debt.
I can understand why Mr S thinks that compensation of more  than £450  is appropriate given  
the length of time that passed before her credit file was updated. However, in this case, I 
think the offer of £450 is reasonable. I say this because  although  the judgement wasnt  
recorded as satisfied for a number of years, I cannot see that she raised this issue at the 
time. I also havent any evidence to suggest  this issue alone  has caused her any adverse 
costs.
Therefore, based  on what I have  seen, I think that £450 is sufficient  to reflect  the distress 
and inconvenience  this issue has caused.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should pay Ms A £450  
compensation, as it has offered, for the distress  and inconvenience caused  by her credit  file 
not being updated when  the judgement was satisfied.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.  
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4120936