K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC wouldnt waive the Early  Repayment 
Charge (ERC) on his mortgage. 
He wants Barclays to refund the £6,052 ERC,  pay him £5,400 he incurred relating to the 
propertys lease, and compensate him for credit card interest which he said resulted from the 
bank not refunding the ERC.
background
In January 2017, Mr M took a two year fixed rate product on his mortgage. This product had 
an ERC if Mr M paid off the mortgage  before the end of the product term. In February,  Mr M 
decided to sell his house. He found a buyer  and hoped  to complete in May.  
Mr M found a property to buy and made  a mortgage appointment with Barclays. The adviser 
told him that, to avoid  paying the ERC,  hed have  to complete on the new purchase within 30 
days of selling his current property.
Mr M said that when hed taken out the new product, the adviser had told him hed have 180 
days from selling his previous property, to complete on a new purchase without being 
charged an ERC. Mr M said he wasnt able to complete on his new purchase within  30 days. 
Barclays agreed the previous adviser  had wrongly told Mr M he could have 180 days, 
instead of 30 days. So the bank said that because  of its advisers mistake, Mr M wouldnt 
have to pay an ERC if he completed on the purchase within  180 days of having sold his 
property. He sold his property on 24 May 2017.
Mr Ms purchase fell through in August. He found  a replacement property in September. The 
180 days grace expired  on 20 November.
A key problem was the level of ground  rent which  would be payable  on Mr Ms proposed  
new purchase. Under Barclays policy, any property which had a ground rent for £250 or 
more wouldnt be an acceptable security.  It had to be capped below that level.  The ground 
rent on Mr Ms proposed purchase  was £350, so Barclays had written to Mr Ms solicitor on 
14 November and said it needed confirmation that the ground  rent would be below  £250.  
When Mr M didnt  meet  the 20 November deadline,  Barclays offered to extend  the deadline 
to 27 November. Mr Ms solicitor didnt meet this. Barclays said it was reluctant to grant any 
more extensions, but it said that it would agree a further extension, provided it received a 
Certificate of Title with ground rent below £250  by 1 December, with completion on 4 
December. Barclays said that if this wasnt met, it wouldnt be refunding Mr Ms ERC.
But the Certificate on Title which Mr Ms solicitor sent on the afternoon of 1 December didnt 
fit the banks policy.  It said the ground  rent would be £250 and there  was provision for it to 
increase in future.
 
Barclays told Mr Ms solicitor that it had to sort out the ground  rent in line with the 14 
November letter. There were lots of phone calls. Barclays didnt receive the Certificate  on 
Title with confirmation that the ground  rent was within acceptable levels  until 4 December. 
Barclays released the funds. 
Ref: DRN41373732Barclays charged Mr M an ERC  and Mr M complained.
Barclays didnt uphold  Mr Ms complaint. It said it had honoured the first advisers mistake 
saying Mr M could have 180 days between a non-simultaneous sale and purchase  and still 
not pay an ERC. And it had made two further  extensions to the time limit. But to treat all 
customers fairly, Barclays couldnt  keep extending the deadline. 
So Barclays  wouldnt  refund Mr Ms £6,052  ERC. It also refused to pay the £5,400
legal costs relating  to the lease issues. The bank paid Mr M £100 for delay in replying to his 
complaint.
Mr M wasnt satisfied  and complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She pointed out that Mr M had always 
known about the ERC,  but was aware that transferring (porting)  the mortgage was a 
possibility. But as Mr M sold his property before buying his new one, an ERC should have 
been payable.  The bank had given Mr M a grace  period  and had extended this, first to 180 
days and then twice  more.
The adjudicator recognised Mr M believed that Barclays had put obstacles  in his way so it 
would be able to charge  him the ERC.  But although Mr M thought  the wrangle over the 
ground rent wasnt necessary, Barclays lending criteria  were  a legitimate exercise of its 
commercial judgment.  
Mr M didnt  accept this. He said a Barclays adviser had given assurances that the ERC 
would be refunded. He said thered been an email  on 8 December promising this.
The adjudicator checked the email, which had said:
Should the refund of the ERC not be sanctioned  we can consider logging  this issue as a 
complaint although I dont  believe  it will come to this as the refund appears to be going 
through the relevant motions at the moment.
The adjudicator said this didnt promise the ERC  would be refunded.  She understood that at 
that point no firm decision had been made to refund the ERC. And the adviser Mr M had 
referred to hadnt  been part of Barclays completions  team, so he didnt have  the authority to 
sanction the refund. And there was no evidence that any Barclays  employee had told Mr Ms 
solicitor that the ERC would be refunded. The adjudicator said she understood Mr Ms 
frustration, but the bank  had told Mr Ms solicitor about the ground  rent issue on 14 
November and it hadnt been  sorted out.
Mr M wasnt satisfied.  He said his solicitor had numerous calls with the completions team, 
and he sent the list of his own phone calls. Mr M said that the adjudicator had said the 
contact hed named  didnt  have the authority to authorise the ERC refund, but he was Mr Ms 
only contact. He said it was too high a standard of proof, to say he had to show recordings of 
the calls to Barclays. He said that if Barclays hadnt said it would refund the ERC,  hed have 
had a choice between not going  ahead with the purchase,  or delaying and getting a 
mortgage elsewhere without the restrictions about ground rent.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN41373733Mr M has raised multiple points in his very long and detailed submissions to the service.  Ive 
understood and looked  into all of those, but Ive commented on what  I think is vital to my 
conclusions. 
There are rules about porting mortgage products, including  the maximum time between  a 
customer selling their previous property  and buying their new one. Here, Barclays  initially 
extended that time limit from 30 days to 180 days because Mr M had been given the wrong 
information by an adviser.  Mr M sold his previous  property on 24 May 2017.  So the 180 days 
would have been up on 20 November.
I note that Mr M withdrew from the first property  he chose,  on his solicitors  advice. So the 
timescales were always going to be tight for the replacement property he found in 
September. 
Barclays did extend the time limits twice more. It didnt have to do this. I accept that, as the 
bank points out, it has to treat customers equally.  So I dont find that the bank was unfair to 
Mr M when  it wouldnt  extend the timescales for waiving the ERC any further.
Its up to a lender  to decide its lending policy, so I dont find that Barclays was wrong to set 
its own rules for ground rent limits.  And I find that it communicated these to Mr Ms solicitor 
by 14 November at the latest.
I have carefully considered whether  the named Barclays adviser  misled  Mr M. I asked 
Barclays if it had the call recording  for when its adviser spoke to Mr M. But the bank said that 
calls to and from office mobiles arent recorded.
Mr M has told us that there  were many calls between Barclays,  Mr M, and his solicitor. I 
dont doubt that, because  with so many delays  there  were bound  to have been many  phone 
calls. But the fact that there would have  been  phone calls doesnt prove that Barclays went  
back on what it had already told Mr Ms solicitor was the final extension   a Certificate  of 
Title showing a ground rent capped below  £250 by 1 December, then completion  on 4 
December. I think its reasonable to expect any further extension to have been in writing.  I 
havent seen this. 
And in any case,  the calls and email which Mr M relied on were dated 8 December.  By that 
time, the banks final extension had already expired.  While I agree that the named  advisers  
email wasnt as clear as it could have  been about having  to pay the ERC, I dont find that it 
categorically promised  to overturn the banks previous communications  and refund  the ERC 
despite Mr M having missed the final deadline.
I note that Mr M says he wouldnt have exchanged and completed on 8 December, if hed 
known about the ERC   or hed have found  a bank which  wasnt worried about the level of 
ground rent. Ive considered this, but if Mr M felt this strongly, its surprising he didnt look 
elsewhere when  Barclays made it clear  to his solicitor on 14 November that the level of 
ground rent didnt  meet its policy.
I dont find that Barclays  acted unfairly. The final concession on the deadline was the third it 
had granted. First, it had extended the deadline from 30 days  to 180 days, because  of its 
advisers mistake. And it had then extended  it twice more, to 27 November, and then to 1 
December with completion on 4 December. By this time it was more  than six months  since  
Ref: DRN41373734Mr M had sold his previous property,  when the banks policy  was a maximum of a 30 day 
gap, if the ERC was to be refunded.
Mr M didnt  meet the banks requirements for the third and final extension. So the ERC  was 
charged fairly.
Finally, I note that Barclays paid Mr M £100 for delay in replying to his complaint. I consider 
this was fair and reasonable and dont require the bank to do more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4137373