K821x#15complaint
Miss V complains  Capital  One (Europe) plc (Capital One)  mis-sold her payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  when  she took out a credit card through it in 2003.
background
Miss V was sent a mailshot by Capital One in 2003 which  offered her the opportunity to 
apply for a credit card. The policy would pay 10% benefit for up to 12 months at a cost of 
89p per £100 of balance.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Miss V had at least six months  existing means on 
which to rely should she be off work  long term. He didnt think  the cost and benefit of the 
policy had been  clear enough and had it been he wasnt persuaded the customer would 
have thought the policy provided value for money. 
Capital One didnt agree. It said it would only take full sick pay in to consideration rather than 
the additional half pay Miss V has detailed. So the complaint has been  passed to me to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Vs case. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Vs complaint. 
Miss V applied for a credit card after receiving postal application form from Capital One.  At 
the same  time I can see that Miss V was given the option of protecting her repayments  and 
she elected to do so by ticking the box next to this offer. So Im satisfied  that Capital One did 
give Miss V a choice  and that she opted to protect her repayments, even if she doesnt now 
recall doing so.
Mrs C has told us that she would  have received three months full sick pay followed by six 
months half sick pay through her work. So she did have some existing means in place at the 
time. 
This policy was simply offered to Miss V as an option, and Capital One didnt recommend 
she take it out. That meant it wasnt required  to take steps to ensure the policy  was suitable; 
that was something  Miss V needed to do herself.  But Capital One was required to provide 
sufficient and clear information  so that Miss V could make an informed choice about the 
policy.
Ref: DRN43384672I accept the leaflet accompanying the application did explain the policy cost 89p per £100  
and that the benefit was 10% for up to 12 months. But I still dont think  the information 
provided went far enough. The leaflet doesnt  explain  that interest is chargeable on the 
premium or that premiums would continue to be charged to the balance  during any claim. So 
Miss V wasnt made aware of what the true cost or benefit might be. And whilst the policy  
document might explain that premiums remain chargeable during  any claim, that was sent 
after the policy had been agreed and so too late to help Miss V make an informed choice. So 
I find Capital One didnt provided  sufficient  and clear information  so Miss V could make an 
informed decision about taking out the policy. 
As explained above, Miss V did have some existing means. Whilst I accept  the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to those,  given the actual cost and benefit  of the policy,  Im not 
persuaded Miss V would have  seen  the policy as providing value  for money  given her 
existing means. And so if Capital One had provided  clear, fair and not misleading information 
I dont think Miss V wouldve taken out the policy. 
putting things rights
Capital One should put Miss V in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken 
out PPI.
A.Capital One should find out how much  Miss V would  have  owed when she closed her 
credit card account if the policy  hadnt been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Capital One should then refund the difference between what  Miss V owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss V made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Capital  One can take off what  
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.Capital One should add simple interest  on the difference between  what Miss V would 
have owed when she closed  her account from when she closed it until she get[s] the 
refund. The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Capital  One works out what Miss V would have owed each  month without PPI 
 Miss V paid more than enough to clear her balance,  Capital One should  also pay 
simple interest  on the extra Miss V paid.  And it should  carry on paying interest until the 
point when Miss V wouldve owed  Capital One something  on her credit  card.  The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
D.Capital One should tell Miss V what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Capital One to take off tax from this interest. Capital  One 
must give Miss V a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My understanding is that Capital One has already  paid Miss V some compensation in 
respect of undisclosed commission.  If that is the case  it can deduct what it has already paid 
from the total compensation.
Ref: DRN43384673my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Miss Vs complaint  against  Capital One (Europe) plc. 
I require it to compensate  Miss V in accordance  with putting things right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4338467