K821x#15complaint
Mr L says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four instalment loans MYJAR provided to Mr L between April and 
December 2018.  Mr Ls borrowing  history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest
Repayment
1 25/04/2018 27/07/2018 3 £150.00 £77.36
2 27/07/2018 14/08/2018 3 £100.00 £53.43
3 22/08/2018 30/11/2018 3 £125.00 £67.71
4 13/12/2018 outstanding 3 £150.00 £80.70
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ls complaint  and thought  loan 4 shouldnt have been  given. 
MYJAR disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN41299682I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
The adjudicator concluded that it wasnt unreasonable  for MYJAR to arrange  loans 1 to 3 for 
Mr L. I agree that it wasnt unreasonable for MYJAR to provide those  loans.
They were  arranged during the early part of the lending  relationship,  and from what  Ive seen 
there was nothing to suggest to MYJAR  that it wasnt appropriate to arrange those loans.
MYJAR doesnt think it was unreasonable to arrange loan 4 either.  It says it carried  out 
extensive checks on Mr Ls financial position,  and was satisfied that he would be able to 
repay the loan.
Ive thought carefully about everything MYJAR  has said. I accept that from the evidence 
available to MYJAR loan 4 may have appeared affordable to Mr L. But there  is another 
consideration I need to take into account here.  As Ive said above, there may come a stage 
where MYJAR should reasonably have  seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful  even  if the loans appeared to be affordable on paper.  And so MYJAR 
should have realised that it shouldnt have provided  any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ls case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
4. I say this because:
Mr L had been indebted to MYJAR  for over seven months, and this was the fourth 
loan hed taken.  
Mr H wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed MYJAR.  The amounts 
he was borrowing werent decreasing significantly and Mr L had paid large amounts 
of interest to, in effect, service a debt to MYJAR  over an extended period.
I think that Mr L lost out because MYJAR provided loan 4 because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ls indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mr L borrowed was likely to have had negative  
implications on his ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  
for these high-cost  loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 4 and MYJAR should put things right.
Ref: DRN41299683putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
By loan 4 any information recorded  about this loan was adverse. So all entries about 
loan 4 should be removed from Mr Ls credit file.
I understand  there was an outstanding balance on loan 4 when Mr L brought  his 
complaint to this Service. I dont know if the loan remains outstanding or if Mr L has 
since repaid it or its been written off.
If there  is an amount remaining,  MYJAR should remove  any interest and charges 
that make  up the balance,  and treat the payment Mr L made as payments towards 
the capital amount. 
MYJAR should refund any payments above  the original capital amounts to Mr L, 
along with 8% per annum simple  interest .
But if MYJAR does not own the outstanding  balance  then it must liaise with the 
current debt owner to ensure Mr L does not pay or has not paid any more than the 
original capital amount  he borrowed.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ls complaint.  MYJAR Limited  
should pay Mr L compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4129968