K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains that Arrow Global Limited (Arrow) shouldve registered  a default on her 
credit file in March 2012 rather than September 2013 as theyve now decided. 
She would like them to backdate the default  to March 2012, remove it from the credit file and 
mark the debt as settled.  
background
Miss H had a change of financial circumstances which  resulted in a reduced salary  for her. 
She fell into debt with S. In October 2011,  she entered  into a debt management plan with S. 
Arrow bought the debt in March 2013.  
Miss H continued to repay her debt in line with her debt management plan. 
In July 2018, Miss H contacted Arrows management company to ask why her default hadnt 
come off her credit file. She raised a complaint.
Arrow wrote to her on 20 September  2018. They agreed that they had registered the default 
late. They thought that they shouldve registered it in September  2013. This is because  they 
had bought the debt in March 2013. After six months of Miss Hs repayments  under the debt 
management plan,  they felt they could then register the default. They  offered Miss H £100 
compensation for not having done  this.
Miss H didnt agree with them.  She also complained that Arrow didnt send her statements to 
her quickly  enough.  
Arrow wrote their response on 14 December 2018.  They didnt agree with changing the 
default date to March 2012 as they didnt have statements from S to show  how payments 
had been made. They  asked Miss H to provide these. They did agree  that they had delayed 
sending statements so offered her further compensation of £50. 
Miss H didnt agree with this decision so she came to us. 
Our investigator found that Arrow shouldve registered the default in March 2012. 
Arrow didnt  agree with this outcome so that complaint has now come  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im partially upholding this complaint. I think that the date the default  shouldve been 
registered is when  Arrow  bought the debt in March 2013. Ill explain why. 
Arrow has said that they wouldnt  have registered a default until there were six months of 
arrears. This follows their internal process which is in line with ICO guidelines that say that 
defaults should be registered  when  there  are between  three  to six months  of arrears. 
Ref: DRN49011202I agree  with Arrows policy as it is in line with ICO guidelines. But, I think that the three to six 
months shouldve  started when Miss H entered into the debt management plan. In this case, 
the default should then have been  registered  any time between  January 2012 and April 
2012. 
The problem is that Arrow didnt own the account at this point  so they couldnt have 
registered the default. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  I cant hold Arrow responsible for S not registering the 
default. This is something that Miss H might want to take up with S as they are the only ones 
who could be asked  to register  the default  earlier. Then Arrow would be bound by this. 
When Arrow bought  the debt in March  2013, I think that this is when  they shouldve  
registered the default. At this point,  they wouldve known that there were already six months 
arrears on the account. This is also shown on the debt repayment plan that Miss H has 
provided. So, they wouldve been following their policy by registering the default as soon  as 
they bought the debt. 
Miss H says that if the default could not be registered at the correct  date because of non 
ownership at the time, then it shouldnt have  been registered incorrectly as its not a true 
ongoing reflection of the account.
I dont agree. I think that, as Arrow couldnt register a default when they didnt own the 
account, the only thing that they could do was to register  the default  when  they bought the 
debt. I dont think that Arrow should  be stopped from registering a default simply because  it 
shouldve been  done earlier. I think that registering  the default  was a true reflection of the 
account at that point  even  though  it couldve  been registered earlier.  
As Ive stated above, if Miss H wants the default to have been  registered  earlier, then the 
only way of her doing this is to approach S. 
As Miss H has been affected by a negative credit file for longer than she shouldve been and 
has had to bring this complaint, I think that it is fair and reasonable for Arrow  to pay her £50 
compensation. 
Ref: DRN49011203my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my decision is that Arrow Global Limited:
1.backdates  the default  on Miss Hs credit file to March 2013;  and
2.pays £50 compensation to Miss H, for the distress and inconvenience suffered by her 
in bringing this complaint and in having  her credit affected for longer than it shouldve 
been; and
3.pay £150 to Miss H, if not already  paid,  as offered in their letters.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4901120