K820x#14complaint
Mr Q complains that he didnt receive  the advertised  benefits  and rewards  when he took out 
a credit card with MBNA  Limited.  Mr Q also complains about  problems  he had when trying to 
activate his card and the service he received. 
background
Mr Q was already a customer when he opened another credit card with MBNA which  was 
connected to an airline and meant he was eligible to receive various benefits. If Mr Q 
purchased something  with the credit card in the first 90 days he would receive 18,500  bonus  
miles. Mr Q opened his credit card on 17 May 2017 but didnt use it to make a purchase  until 
21 August 2017  which  is longer than 90 days so didnt  receive  the bonus miles.  
Mr Q says he had problems when  he tried to activate his card which  meant he wasnt able to 
meet the terms of his offer. Mr Q activated  his credit  card on 11 August  2017 after he spoke 
to MBNA. Mr Q also says his activation  of the card was delayed  while  he was waiting for 
MBNA to respond to another  complaint. In addition, Mr Q told MBNA that it had declined  a 
transaction during the 90 day period which wouldve meant hed have  qualified  if it had been 
approved. 
MBNA responded  to Mr Qs complaint but said there was no evidence to show hed had 
difficulties activating  his new card before he called on 11 August 2017. MBNA didnt find any 
evidence of a declined transaction so didnt find Mr Q had qualified  for the bonus miles. 
MBNA also said that while Mr Q had raised  a complaint about a different credit card he held 
with it, that wasnt connected  to his new account so didnt agree it had caused a delay in him 
activating the card. 
Mr Q referred  his complaint to this service and an investigator looked  at what had happened. 
They thought MBNA  had dealt with Mr Qs complaint fairly so didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mr Q disagreed and asked for his case to be appealed so its been passed  to me to 
make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Q says he had problems registering his card online because his information wasnt up to 
date on MBNAs systems.  Ive listened  to various  calls MBNA supplied including the one on 
11 August 2017.  During this call Mr Q explained  hed tried to amend his details  online and 
hadnt been successful. The call handler  made the necessary changes and then activated 
the card for Mr Q. 
I know Mr Q says he experienced difficulties with the online system but Im satisfied MBNA 
was quickly able to resolve that when he called, in time for him to have qualified  for the offer. 
And given  the card was opened on 21 May 2017  I think Mr Q had a reasonable amount of 
time available  to make sure his card was activated so he could meet  the terms for the bonus 
miles. 
Mr Qs card was activated within the 90 day window required to qualify for the bonus miles 
so Im satisfied he couldve used it for an eligible  purchase. But as the first transaction  was 
Ref: DRN42974522completed after the 90 day deadline  ended  Mr Q didnt meet the terms of the offer.  Mr Q 
says he tried to use his credit card during the period but MBNAs sent us systems evidence  
to show all attempted transactions. I can confirm that the first attempted transaction  for this 
card was on 21 August  2017 and it was approved. I appreciate  Mr Q believes his card was 
declined earlier but the evidence Ive seen doesnt  support  that. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr Q but I havent  found that errors by MBNA led to delays in 
activating his card or him failing  to qualify for the bonus miles. 
Mr Qs told us he wants to close his credit  card with MBNA but has been  blocked from doing 
so. But I havent  seen anything to show Mr Q has been blocked from closing his credit  card 
down and it appears hes now stopped using it. I understand  Mr Q feels he was misled into 
thinking hed receive a pro rate refund but, like the investigator, Ive listened to the call and 
the person he spoke  to explained  she was making an assumption  when she discussed a 
refund. I dont think MBNA should be bound by that. 
Mr Q recently  sent us evidence of calls hes had with MBNA during the period in question.  
But MBNA has sent us contact notes to show that the first call was made  in relation to 
another card Mr Q has with it and was about an unrelated matter. The second three minute  
call relates to him activating  a card on a different  account he held with MBNA.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr Q but I havent  found any evidence that delays or mistakes by 
MBNA delayed activation of his credit card or caused him to miss out on the bonus miles 
benefit. As Im satisfied  MBNA  has dealt  with Mr Qs complaint fairly Im not telling  it to take 
any further action.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4297452