K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Bradford and Bingley mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs G bought  the policy in 1990  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. 
They applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr G only for accident,  sickness,  and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £100.00 a month towards Mr and Mrs Gs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £5.00 a month.  
At the time,  Mr G was employed  as a Warehouse  Manager. He has told us he was entitled to 
some sick pay and death in service  benefit from his employer. Mr G hasnt mentioned  any 
redundancy pay if he had been made  redundant but may have received some limited 
redundancy pay. Mrs G was working  so they would have had her income  but have said they 
didnt have any other means  of repaying  their mortgage should Mr G be unable  to work.
Mr G has mentioned a number of illnesses he had many years before taking out the policy  
but at the time of the sale it seems he was in good  health. 
As Mrs G was not covered by the policy I shall not consider her personal  circumstances  in 
any detail.
Bradford and Bingley has sent us information to show that the mortgage  and PPI were 
applied for in October 1989 and became effective in January 1990 and the mortgage 
account closed  in July 2002.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Gs representative says:
 
Bradford and Bingley failed to meet the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In 
those circumstances,  applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs G 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Gs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Bradford and Bingley 
should have told Mr and Mrs G about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN48295932The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Bradford and Bingley should 
have explained  the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr G and 
the impact they would have had on his chances  of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs G received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1989 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN48295933The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Bradford and Bingley at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI 
Code and these  other  publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Gs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Bradford and Bingley was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if 
they were guidance  when  considering Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
If Bradford and Bingley gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs G with 
reasonable care and skill  in particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or 
suitable for them, given  their needs  and circumstances. 
Whether Bradford  and Bingley  gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient, appropriate  and timely  
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs G, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs G 
Ref: DRN48295934suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would  amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs G 
and Bradford and Bingley, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ive set out 
my reasoning below.  
did Mr and Mrs G know they had a choice?
Bradford and Bingley had to make  it clear that the PPI policy  was optional. 
The PPI was applied  for during the mortgage application process.  On the mortgage 
application form there is a section for PPI. This gives choices as to if the cover  is wanted and 
if so, whether it is cover for accident, sickness and unemployment or just accident and 
sickness. Also there are choices  as to who the policy is to cover,  one or both borrowers.
I can see in this section  Mr and Mrs G have  selected to have cover for accident, sickness 
and unemployment  and chosen to have this cover just for Mr G. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that there was some information given 
during the meeting and that Mr and Mrs G knew the policy  was optional and they agreed to 
take it out without  undue pressure. 
did Bradford and Bingley provide advice?
Both Bradford and Bingley  and Mr and Mrs G agree  that advice  wasnt  provided during this 
sale. 
This means  Bradford and Bingley didnt have  to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs 
G. Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable them 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs G were given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr G 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs G would have  
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Bradford and Bingley gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the 
exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs G agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think Bradford and Bingley gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN48295935Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Gs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Gs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs G about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Gs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs G have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Bradford and Bingley ought to have done 
either. 
what effect did Bradford and Bingleys shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs G? To what 
extent did Mr and Mrs G suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Bradford and Bingley didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy 
to Mr and Mrs G. So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude they suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs G would have still taken  out the policy,  had Bradford and Bingley done 
things properly. 
Mr and Mrs G say they would not have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs G had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr G being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs G chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs G thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs G have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
Ref: DRN48295936The information Mr and Mrs G were given  about  the cost and benefit  amounts paid were 
clear as this information  was selected and entered on the application  form. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the length  of time the benefits would 
be paid and the limitations and exclusions, wasnt as clear as it should  have been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  Bradford and Bingley  made clear exactly  what  Mr and Mrs G 
would get back  in return in the event Mr G made  a successful  claim. But I think its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs Gs expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an 
amount sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different to what  the 
policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs G thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mr G 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr G 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months for unemployment, rather  than 
the remaining  term of the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs G pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs G from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr G was eligible  for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to them should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr G 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions. Although Mr G has indicated he 
had some pre-existing conditions most  of these were childhood illnesses. The most recent 
condition mentioned, an appendectomy, occurred some 30 years before the start of the 
policy and was not something that would have reoccurred  and caused  Mr G to take time of 
work. So, I still think they had some  good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs G would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
Bradford and Bingley may not have told Mr and Mrs G that any claim Mr G made for 
unemployment would be limited to a 24-month  period. This may have differed from what they 
expected and might have  hoped for, but they had limited other means  to fall back  on. When 
the policy was first taken  out accident  and sickness were covered for an indefinite period, 
although this changed during the course  of the policy and Mr and Mrs G would have been 
notified of the reduction in the payment  period at that time.
Ref: DRN48295937In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs G would still have thought a policy 
that paid indefinitely for accident and sickness and up to 24 monthly mortgage payments for 
unemployment would have been of benefit  to them and would help them manage the 
consequences should Mr G be unable to work in the circumstances covered by the policy. 
The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it could help reduce their outgoings at a 
difficult and uncertain  time,  ensuring their home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs G would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr G was made  redundant, or unable  to work through  accident 
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs G would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Gs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs G would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Gs circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs G found  themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs G believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs G in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Bradford and Bingley should pay Mr and Mrs G compensation, 
Ref: DRN48295938as that would put them in a better position than they would  have  been  in if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs G think Bradford and Bingley misrepresented the terms of 
the policy in how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility  a court  might  
conclude some of Bradford and Bingleys statements misrepresented the contract, in my 
opinion the reason why Bradford and Bingley failed to act fairly and reasonably was not 
because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  but because the overall 
information Bradford  and Bingley gave  Mr and Mrs G, in the way it did, was insufficient to 
meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 1989 when 
providing information about an insurance  policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Gs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Bradford  and Bingley negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr and Mrs 
G and about the remedy  a court might  award  if it were to find that Bradford and Bingley had 
been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my 
conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  
including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons 
Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair and reasonable  to put Mr and Mrs G in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4829593