K820x#14complaint
Mr M is complaining that he was mis-sold  a Premier  account in 2010 by TSB Bank  plc 
(TSB). He says that he already  held the same  benefits on another  account that he also 
held with TSB (a Platinum account) and he was told that he would not have to pay fees for 
the Premier account.
I note that since the Premier account  was opened  additional account holders  have  been  
added to it and we have obtained  their consent  to look at this matter. But Mr M was the only 
account holder  when  it was opened  and has been the main correspondent during this 
process, so for readability I will be referring  to just him for the rest of this decision.
background
Our adjudicators have  looked into this complaint already. They did not think that the Premier 
account was mis-sold.  Mr M did not agree with this and therefore asked for a final decision.
This decision will only be looking at the sale of the Premier account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ms complaint. 
In order to uphold  a complaint, I need  to be satisfied on two points. Firstly,  that the business 
complained about has done  something wrong.  Secondly, that the wrongdoing has left the 
complainant worse off. Having carefully thought about everything Ive been  provided with, I 
dont think that TSB mis-sold the packaged account to Mr M. Id like to explain the reasons 
for my decision. Ive started  by thinking about whether Mr M was given a clear  choice in 
taking his packaged account.  At this point,  it may help for me to explain that I have to make 
my decision  based  on what I think is most  likely to have happened, having weighed up what 
Mr M and TSB have been able to provide me with.
In this instance Mr M has not mentioned  that he was not given a fair choice to take out the 
account. His complaint  seems to centre on the account not being suitable  for him as he 
already held the benefits that came with the Premier  account  on his Platinum account.  
My understanding is that TSB recommended  the Premier account to Mr M so it had to 
ensure that the account was a reasonable fit for his circumstances at the time. Mr M had a 
Platinum account  when the Premier account was sold and it came with Worldwide  Travel  
Insurance, Breakdown  cover and Mobile Phone  insurance. The Premier account came  with 
enhanced versions of these benefits  and additionally  came with Home Emergency Cover  
and Identity theft protection in addition  to a number of banking benefits such  as better rates 
on overdrafts etc. Mr M has registered for or used  every  single  one of the benefits  of the 
Premier account including  those  that were available  exclusively on that account,  and werent  
available to him through his existing  Platinum PBA. There  is also a note from the time of the 
sale saying that Mr M wanted the account in order to benefit from all round better cover. So 
it would  appear  on the face of it that TSBs  recommendation was a reasonable one.
Ref: DRN48714012Now the crux of this matter is that Mr M feels that as he was not routinely paying a monthly 
fee for the Platinum account it was inappropriate for him to be recommended that he take 
out a fee paying Premier  account. He says this because some of the benefits  were 
duplicated and he feels that there was little point paying for benefits he was already getting  
for free. The reason  Mr M was rarely  paying  for the Platinum account  is due to the monthly  
account fee being waived  if the balance was kept above £4,000.  Mr M says he was told that 
under no circumstances would he have to pay a monthly fee for the Premier  account either.  
But I think it is more likely  that he was told that he would not have  to pay a fee if he 
maintained a balance of £7,500, which was the threshold for the fee waiver on the Premier  
PBA. There is a note from the time of the sale saying that Mr M was told about the £25 
month account fee so I think that he wouldve been aware that the account  would  cost him a 
monthly fee had he not met the waiver criterion. I should also add that I am satisfied that Mr 
M was aware of how a fee waiver  worked, as demonstrated by the way he maintained his 
Platinum account.
After taking out the Premier account I can see that Mr M did not maintain the necessary 
balance in order to qualify for the fee waiver. But this did not mean  that he was paying twice  
for the same benefits: rather he was, in fact, only paying for the Premier account  and was 
getting the Platinum account for free as he did maintain  the required balance  for this 
account.
Mr M has said that he should have been recommended to upgrade his Platinum account 
rather than take out a separate  Premier  account, but due to the fee waiver he was only ever 
paying for the Premier  account, and was getting the Platinum account for free. So if he had 
just upgraded  his existing account to a Premier  account and ran it the same way he would 
have ended up paying a monthly fee for it. So he would therefore be in the same financial 
position, but just without  a Platinum account and its benefits. So I dont think  that TSBs 
recommendation meant that Mr M lost out in any event.
Mr M added two additional parties  to the Premier account shortly  after the upgrade,  one of 
which was not an account holder for the Platinum. This suggests  it was Mr Ms intention to 
give this new account holder access to the benefits  associated to the Premier account.
I accept that Mr M may not have been told everything about all of the benefits  that the 
account came with, but I cant see anything he was not told that I think  wouldve  altered his 
decision to take out the account. I say that particularly in light of his usage  of those benefits.
Overall I think  that Mr M chose to take out an account that he knew  he did not have to agree 
to with a good understanding of the benefits that it came with. I note Mr Ms comments  in his 
recent e-mail  saying  it looks like and feels like the Financial  Ombudsman  isnt working for 
the General Public more like working for the corporates of this world But I would like to 
reassure Mr M that we are a completely independent and impartial  dispute  resolution 
organisation which is not working for either  side. With this in mind, as and an independent 
and impartial ombudsman, I am unable to recommend that the account  fees be refunded  as 
ultimately I cant see that TSB mis-sold  this account.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Ref: DRN48714013Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4871401