complaint
Mr P and Ms M are unhappy because Santander  UK Plc stopped paying interest on their 
Santander 123 account without telling  them.  Theyre also unhappy that they continued  to pay
the monthly account fee without receiving  its benefits.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my provisional conclusions by way of a 
provisional decision  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. 
I explained why I thought  Santander did enough to let Mr P and Ms M know  what was going  on 
with their joint account. I also explained there was little to suggest that Mr P and Ms M were 
meeting regularly at the point when the second direct debit was cancelled.  And so I didnt think  
the relationship  manager  should have done more to let Mr P and Ms M know their account  
wasnt receiving interest.  I concluded that I didnt think Santander had done anything wrong. 
I invited Mr P and Ms M and Santander to let me have any more  evidence or arguments they 
wanted to submit before I made my final decision.  Santander accepted my provisional decision, 
but Mr P and Ms M did not.
Mr P and Ms M say they arent able to provide further information of the meetings with their 
personal relationship  manager due to the time that has passed. And that Santander shouldve 
let them  know the account wasnt complying with its terms and conditions.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
I note Mr P and Ms Ms comment  that they dont feel its possible to provide precise dates of 
when they met their personal relationship manager  as these took place several years ago. But 
neither parties  can tell me exactly when the meetings took place. So I cant say its more  likely  
than not that Mr P and Ms M continued  to meet the personal relationship manager after early 
2016 (which is when Mr P and Ms M say the subsequent meetings were held) and at the point 
when the second direct debit expired in late 2016.
Mr P and Ms M say that they dont feel its realistic to be expected  to understand when a direct 
debit may expire  or be cancelled. And they also say that if there had been any indication  that 
the account wasnt complying with the terms and conditions when they were  reviewing their 
account online, they wouldve addressed this issue. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  its Mr P and Ms Ms responsibility to monitor their 
account, to some extent,  to ensure the account still qualifies for the benefits. That included 
making sure there were two active direct debits  on the account.  Given  that Mr P and Ms M 
managed their account online, I think they wouldve  been able to see the account wasnt  
receiving interest each month when reviewing the account. And I dont  think its Santanders 
responsibility to contact them if the account wasnt working in the way Mr P and Ms M 
expected. 
Mr P and Ms M have  said they hope  their personal  information was redacted  from the 
screenshots provided to me by Santander.  To clarify, the information  Santander sent me in 
relation to the online account shows activity history  and not account  log in details. For example, 
this information  shows me each  time the account  was logged in to and out of. 
Ref: DRN4633235I appreciate Mr P and Ms M want Santander to refund all of the account fees charged. But 
Santanders offer was a gesture of goodwill  and thats not the same as an admission of 
liability. 
I dont think Santander  has done anything wrong, so I wont  be asking it to refund any other 
account fees. I think the offer its made already is fair.  And,  given that I dont think  Santander 
did anything wrong,  it wouldnt be fair to tell them to compensate Mr P and Ms M for the time 
and effort  they say theyve spent pursuing  their complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr P and Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4633235copy  provisional decision
complaint
Mr P and Ms M are unhappy  because Santander UK Plc stopped  paying interest on their Santander 
123 account without telling  them. Theyre also unhappy that they continued to pay the monthly  account 
fee without receiving its benefits.
background
Mr P and Ms M opened a joint Santander 123 account in October  2015. This account  has a monthly 
fee, but pays  interest subject  to certain conditions which Mr P and Ms M say they were aware of. 
These conditions include:
paying  in at least £500 every month
having  at least two active  direct  debits  on the account.
Mr P and Ms M say this type of account provided  the benefit of a relationship  manager. They  say they 
had regular meetings with the relationship manager to ensure they complied with
the terms and conditions from late 2015  to early 2016. In March 2018, when  Mr P conducted a 
financial review, he says he realised interest hadnt been paid on the account.  So he contacted  
Santander to ask why.
Santander said this was because  Mr P and Ms M no longer had two active  direct debits in place 
which meant they no longer met the criteria for earning  interest. Mr P and Ms M made  a complaint  as 
they were upset Santander  hadnt  told them  this and continued to charge the monthly fee.
Santander said this is a self-managed account, so it expects Mr P and Ms M to keep an eye on the 
account themselves. They also said Mr P and Ms M were able to manage their account online or via 
their monthly  paper statements which would have shown no direct debit payments were coming out 
of the account. But the bank offered to refund £30  equivalent to six months of the account  fee  as 
a gesture of goodwill.
Mr P and Ms M were unhappy with Santanders response, so they referred  the complaint to our 
service.
Our adjudicator didnt think Santander had done  anything wrong in charging  the monthly  fee. Mr P and 
Ms M didnt agree with this. They  said Santander could have notified them that one direct  debit had 
lapsed and that it wasnt  fair for Santander to charge  for a service  that
wasnt being utilised for the purpose of which it was set up.
Mr P and Ms M said they wanted their complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman, so the case was 
passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should Santander have done more  to let Mr P and Mrs M know they werent receiving  interest?
I can understand why Mr P and Ms M were disappointed  to find out they hadnt been earning  interest 
on their account for some time. Theyve said they didnt realise one of the direct debits theyd  set up 
had lapsed. And they think Santander should  have  proactively
contacted them via phone or letter to tell them this. But I dont think  Santander did have to contact 
them about this. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN4633235K820x#14Santander has given  us copies of some of Mr P and Ms Ms statements from 2016 and 2017 which 
appear to have  been  sent to their correct address. I can see on the front page of two
of the statements it clearly explains the eligibility criteria for this account and confirms that to 
receive cashback  and interest you must pay at least £500 a month and have a minimum of two 
active direct  debits. Santander has said that this information would have been on every statement  
where Mr Ps and Ms Ms account didnt receive the benefit.
Mr P and Mrs M say they have no recollection  of this message on the statements. But they also say 
they were aware of the eligibility criteria and ensured they met it when the opened the account. I 
also think its Mr P and Ms Ms responsibility to look at their statements and monitor their accounts 
to some extent, to ensure they still qualify for the benefits.  And, as far as I can see, Santander 
never said it would get in touch in any month when interest wasnt earned in order to point  this out 
and remind them again  about the eligibility criteria.
Santander has also sent us screenshots of the times  when Mr P or Ms M logged on to their online 
banking for this joint account  in 2016 and 2017. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr P and Ms M 
were unable to access their account information  online. So I think  they could  have viewed the 
information online to see what was going on with their account and to check that
it was working in the way they intended  that is, receiving interest each month.
I think Santander did enough  to let Mr P and Ms M know what was going  on with their 
account and what the eligibility criteria was for interest payments.
Mr P and Ms M are also unhappy they continued  to pay the monthly  fee for the account despite not 
receiving its benefits. I dont  think Santander has to pay Mr P and Ms M back their fees, simply 
because they stopped meeting the criteria to receive interest. I say this because Mr P and Ms M 
agreed to the terms and conditions of the account which explained that the monthly  fee would  still 
be charged even if the criteria wasnt met.
Should the relationship  manager have  done  more to let Mr P and Mrs M know they werent 
receiving interest?
Mr P and Ms M say their relationship manager reviewed  this account  on an ongoing basis and 
confirmed the details relating to the running  of the account were  present and correct.
Mr P and Ms M havent been able to tell me exactly when  they met with the relationship manager. 
Theyve only told me that the initial  and subsequent meetings were late 2015 to early 2016. 
Santander says the relationship manager  doesnt remember what was discussed. And that there 
are no notes about any discussions that took place between the relationship manager and Mr P 
and Ms M. So its not clear  to me if the meetings were still happening after early  2016.
With that in mind, it looks  like interest stopped  being  paid in late-2016 when one of the direct debits 
that was set up in October 2015 (when the account was opened), expired.  It seems likely  this 
happened because the direct debit had never been called  upon. And its standard  industry practice  
for direct debit  instructions  to be cancelled  if they havent  been used for 13 months.  When  the 
dormant direct debit was cancelled,  Mr P and Mrs M were left with just one active  direct debit on 
their account.  And, as Ive already said, interest will only be paid if there are two active  direct debits 
in place.
Theres little to suggest that Mr P and Mrs M were still meeting regularly  with the relationship 
manager at the point when the second direct debit was cancelled. And I wouldnt expect  the 
relationship manager to keep an eye on the account if no meetings and financial reviews were  
taking place. There  simply wouldnt be time for a relationship manager to individually  check every  
customers account in the way that Mr P and Mrs M seem to expect.
Ref: DRN46332355Overall, I dont think Santander has done anything wrong. And I think the offer its made to refund 
six months worth of account  fees is fair. This acknowledges, to an extent, that Mr P and Ms M 
may not have  realised immediately  that they werent  receiving  interest on the account but they 
should have realised  within  six months.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not intending to uphold  Mr P and Mrs Ms complaint.
Both parties are invited to send me any further comments they would like me to consider by
28 February 2019 before  I make my final decision.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4633235