K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policies 
taken out alongside personal  loans in July 2007  and July 2008. Mr K says Voyager 
Alliance Credit Union  Limited (VACU) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
I issued my provisional decision in January 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I was not intending to uphold  
Mr Ks complaint. I asked  everyone to send  me any further comments  and information before 
I reached a final decision.
VACU had nothing  further to add. Mr K provided  further comments for me to consider which  
Ive now done.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable.  
As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached  the same conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision, for the same reasons
Mr K has said the tick in the box to select PPI in the application form isnt consistent with the 
other ticks on the application,  so hes said he didnt tick for the PPI. I accept it may be 
possible that Mr K didnt tick the box himself. However, Mr K signed the application  form to 
agree to its contents.  And as Mr K was taking out additional credit  I would have  expected 
him to read over the form and if he didnt agree with anything on it then he could have raised 
it at the time. But as Mr K signed  the application, I believe he wanted  the cover. 
With regards to the loan agreement, Ive already said in the provisional decision that the 
selection of PPI is likely to have been  a reflection of the choice made in the application. But 
Mr K signed  this agreement, so Im satisfied that he wouldve  seen this document at the time 
with the selection for PPI included. And again,  if Mr K didnt want PPI he could have raised 
this before signing in agreement  with it. 
Mr K has said PPI was not suitable  for him. But as Ive already explained, the policy  provided  
accident and sickness cover for up to 24 months  per claim  more than, and in addition  to, 
the sick pay Mr K would have received. This would have given Mr K the option  of not 
needing to use his sick pay to make  his repayments or the option of using his sick pay to 
help pay for other living expenses that he may have had. 
And as Mr K has said he was consolidating  other  debts at the time,  I dont  think this means 
that the recommendation to take PPI was unsuitable or that the policy  wasnt  right for him. 
So I still believe it would have been useful for him if something went  wrong. Although Mr K 
has said that he had no history of illness, nobody can accurately predict the future and 
health circumstances can change even if Mr K had no history of health issues. Having this 
policy would help protect his financial positon  if Mr K was to experience an unexpected  
change in his health circumstances. 
Ive thought about everything Mr K has said but this doesnt change my decision. 
Ref: DRN49598982my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Sonia Hussain
Ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  two monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken  
out alongside personal  loans in July 2007  and July 2008. Mr K says Voyager Alliance  Credit Union 
Limited (VACU) mis-sold  him the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN49598983Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr Ks case.
Im currently  intending to not uphold Mr Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr K has said PPI was not explained and that it was included in the repayment figure   so he felt 
obliged to take it. VACU has said the optional nature  of the policy would have been  clear and it 
would have been up to Mr K to decide whether to take PPI or not. Where theres  a dispute  about 
what happened, I have to base my decision  on what  I think is most likely  to have happened,  taking 
into account  all the evidence that is available.
VACU has provided the loan application completed at the time for the sale in July 2007. Within this 
form there is an option to select either I do require or I do not require  for PPI. I can see PPI has 
been selected. VACU  has also provided  a copy of the loan agreement  from the time.  There is an 
option to select or decline PPI and I can see there is an X marked  in the box to select  PPI  which  
I believe reflects  the choice made in the application.  If Mr K didnt want  PPI, he could have selected 
not to have it. But Mr K has signed the agreement which indicates he agrees with all the 
information in the agreement,  including the PPI.
For the July 2008 sale, VACU has provided a copy of the information captured  from the online 
application. I can see PPI was selected  during the application. VACU has also provided a 
copy of the loan agreement completed at the time sale. There is an option to select or decline  
PPI and I can see there is an X marked in the box to select PPI  which I believe  reflects  the 
choice made  in the online  application. If Mr K didnt want PPI, he could have selected not to 
have it. But Mr K has signed the agreement which  indicates he agrees  with all the information 
in the agreement, including  the PPI.
So overall and having taken everything  in to consideration, I think  VACU  made  it clear that Mr K 
didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it out in both sales.
VACU didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr K so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did 
have to make sure Mr K got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information  VACU gave  Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover.  Based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for him if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover.
Mr K has said he would have received  three months  full followed by three months half sick pay 
from his employer  if he was too ill to work. But the policy provided accident and sickness cover for 
up to 24 months per claim. So I still believe  it would  have  been useful for him if something went 
wrong
Ive also thought  about  the commission Mr K paid on his PPI  and whether  VACU treated him 
unfairly. VACU  has told us that the commission for Mr Ks PPI was less than half of what  he paid for 
each premium. Weve  looked  at how VACU has been working this out and based on what weve  
seen it looks like its right  Mr Ks commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the 
case, I dont  think  it needed to tell him about the commission  so I dont think VACU treated him 
unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr K back any of the commission he paid for the PPI.
Ref: DRN4959898