K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that they werent able to transfer their existing payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy sold to them by Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) when they 
took out a new mortgage  with a different provider.
background
In 2003 Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage  with Nationwide. At the same  time they took out 
a regular premium PPI policy to cover  their mortgage payments in the event they were 
unable to work due to accident and sickness or lost their jobs. At the time they took out the 
policy it was possible to make amendments to the policy to things such as the level of cover  
and the policy was transferable to other mortgages.
Between 2003 and 2006 Mrs M made a number of amendments to the policy increasing the 
level of cover in-line with further borrowing taken. 
Around 2011 there was a change to the terms and conditions of the policy  and amendments  
could no longer be made. The change  in terms and conditions was communicated  by post to 
policy holders prior to the renewal date of the policy.
When transferring their mortgage in 2018 to a different mortgage provider Mr and Mrs M 
discovered the PPI policy wasnt  transferrable  and cancelled it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should  be upheld because  he thought 
it was likely they received  notification  of the changes to the terms and conditions  prior to the 
renewal date of the policy  and if they wanted  to take out a standalone  policy  they couldve 
done so. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with our adjudicator. They say they lost out because they had to 
take out a new policy  which cost more.
So their complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im in agreement with our adjudicator  and Im not going to uphold Mr and 
Mrs Ms complaint.
Nationwide has provided us with copies of mortgage  statements  and schedules  which  were  
sent to Mr and Mrs M over the years they had their mortgage with it. They are addressed  
correctly and Mr and Mrs M havent  said they didnt receive these documents. And they 
havent given  any reason  why they might  not have received the change in terms and 
conditions document.  So I think it is more likely than not they received this and just dont 
remember. 
The amendment to the terms and conditions says:   
 
Ref: DRN42557252From your renewal  date you will no longer be able to make  amendments to your policy . This 
includes increasing/decreasing the monthly  benefit.
If your circumstances change and this policy no longer meets your needs you should contact 
Nationwide to discuss your options. 
I accept that it doesnt specifically  say your policy will no longer be transferable but Im 
satisfied a transfer of a policy to a new mortgage would be an amendment and is not allowed 
under the amended terms and conditions.
So I cant say Nationwide  has done  anything wrong here as they are entitled to make 
changes to the products that they offer. And Mr and Mrs M are free to accept those changes  
or take their business elsewhere.
It is clear also that Mr and Mrs M wanted to keep their PPI policy  because  they wanted  to 
transfer it to their new mortgage. So I dont think they wouldve cancelled their policy  had 
they have understood it was no longer transferrable. 
And Im not aware of Mrs M having developed any medical conditions  following taking the 
policy which  wouldve made  it difficult to get cover. So overall  I cant see that they have lost 
out as a result of the change to the terms and conditions and it is for this reason I do not 
uphold their complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against 
Nationwide Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4255725