K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy with mistakes  made  by Barclays Bank  UK PLC when they 
amended their mortgage. They  made  an overpayment, applied for a new rate and requested  
the mortgage term be shortened, but Barclays made mistakes that led to higher payments 
being requested  between  January and April 2019.
background
Mr and Mrs E have  set out their account of events in considerable detail. I trust they wont 
take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed  this complaint in the way that I have. Although 
Ive read and considered the whole  file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I 
dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because  I 
dont think I need  to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Barclays admitted it made mistakes  and it refunded the January and February overpayments  
totalling £392.14 on 5 February  (not March as Mr E told our investigator on the phone), and 
the March and April overpayments  totalling £52.30 were refunded  in April. It corrected the 
mortgage account so the monthly  payments were  correct from May, and offered £500 
compensation.
Our investigator thought Barclays offer to pay Mr and Mrs E £500  in recognition of its errors 
was fair. Mr and Mrs E didnt  accept  this, saying they wanted more compensation, so its 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has already  admitted it made  mistakes, so I dont need to make  a finding on what 
happened, or why. Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes 
mistakes, mistakes do happen. Were  not the regulator and its not our role to fine or punish  
businesses.
Barclays has offered £500,  Mr and Mrs E want more.  They  also mentioned  paying a £299 
set-up fee and say the new rate wasnt set-up correctly. Having looked at all of the evidence 
 and keeping  in mind the level of award  we normally  make  I consider the offer of £500 to 
be fair and reasonable.
It wouldnt be reasonable to refund the product  fee as this is a feature of the mortgage 
product Mr and Mrs E applied for (and got). It wasnt a set-up fee, it was a product fee and 
they got the product,  even  if Barclays didnt get the monthly payments right for the first few 
months. We all suffer  some  level of inconvenience in our lives and sometimes  things dont 
run as smoothly as wed like. Mistakes can happen  and did here.  And for that I consider 
£500 to be fair compensation;  a higher  award  isnt proportionate or reasonable.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part, but only insofar  as I order Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay the 
£500 its already  offered to Mr and Mrs E (less  any amount already paid).
Ref: DRN40434642My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which  means Ill not 
be engaging  in any further discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to accept or reject my decision 
before 13 December 2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4043464