K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Hoist Finance UK Limited,  represented by Robinson Way Ltd 
(Robinson Way),  failed to tell him about a debt that he had with them  when he asked to 
clear all of his debt. 
background
In 2017 Mr D sold a property and wanted to clear all of his debt. He said he contacted 
Robinson Way but, whilst  they told him the balance of some  debt he had with them, they 
failed to tell him about a credit card debt he had registered at a previous address.  He was 
therefore surprised  to hear from them  a year later when they contacted him to tell him the 
debt still existed and he owed over £4,000. He says that Robinson  Way have therefore 
denied him the chance to clear his debts and they should waive the money  he owes.
But Robinson Way didnt  agree. They said they had no record that Mr D had settled this 
particular debt and when hed contacted them in 2017 he hadnt asked to pay this particular 
debt off. They said it was Mr Ds responsibility  to keep track of his debts and whilst  theyd 
usually link accounts from previous addresses, as Mr D hadnt told them  about this address, 
they hadnt done so. 
So Mr D referred his complaint to this service and our investigator considered  it. She didnt 
think Robinson Way needed  to take any further action. She tried to obtain  the phone  call 
Hed had with them when  he called  to clear his debts  but as it was such a long time ago she 
understood Robinson Way no longer had it. But she thought they were  right to suggest  it 
was Mr Ds responsibility to identify the debts he had and she understood that if he hadnt 
notified the business about the change  of address they couldnt be expected  to link it to the 
others on his account. And regardless, she explained that she wouldnt be able to ask 
Robinson Way to clear the debt.  That wouldnt be reasonable as Mr D accepted  he had 
accrued it and it wouldnt be fair to ask the business  to clear it on the basis  of a clerical error. 
So she didnt think Robinson Way had done anything wrong or needed to take any further  
action.
But Mr D was still dissatisfied and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D and Robinson Way are in agreement that the outstanding debt is one that Mr D owns.  I 
dont think it would be fair to ask the business  to waive this debt simply because an 
Ref: DRN41403972administrative error had occurred. We may look to remove charges or interest on an account 
if an error had taken place  but Im not satisfied, in this case, that any error was made.
I say that because:
its Mr Ds responsibility to keep track  of his debt and I dont think  its reasonable to 
expect the business  to do that for him
he didnt tell Robinson  Way about  his change  of address so I can understand they 
may not have automatically linked his account
So I dont  think Robinson  Way have  done  anything wrong here and Im therefore not asking 
them to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4140397