K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with how National Westminster Bank Plc dealt with a personal 
loan application,  first in joint names and then in Mrs Ws sole name. They  want  NatWest to 
compensate them for the financial loss they say theyve suffered,  and for the trouble and 
upset theyve experienced. Mrs W has dealt with this complaint throughout. 
background 
One Sunday, Mr and Mrs W saw a car they wanted to buy. The garage agreed to reserve it 
for them for 24 hours free of charge. That evening, Mr and Mrs W applied online to NatWest 
for a loan to buy the car. Mrs W already had two loans with the bank. She told us the 
application seemed to go through fine. 
The next day, which was a bank  holiday,  Mr and Mrs W paid the garage a deposit  of £150 by 
credit card. But by the following morning, she hadnt  heard  anything  more from NatWest. 
When she called the bank, it told her that it needed proof of income for both of them. 
Mrs W talked  to NatWest  about why this was needed. She told the bank that Mr W had just 
started a new job. NatWest said that if he was on probation, it couldnt use his income. This 
meant the application  didnt meet NatWests affordability requirements  using  just Mrs Ws 
income. This was due to the two loans she already had. 
So, the bank looked to see if it could  lend Mrs W enough buy the car and pay off these two 
loans. At first, NatWest  said she could have a loan for £16,000. This would be enough to pay 
of the loans while leaving £11,000  to buy the car. The bank then said the application was 
rejected because its systems could only take account of one of the loans being  repaid, not 
both. This meant that, once more,  the application  didnt meet the affordability  criteria. 
NatWest told Mrs W she could appeal to the underwriters, but this could take up to five 
working days. The bank told her it couldnt fast track this appeal. However, later that 
evening, NatWest called her to say the loan had been  approved.  
Mrs W complained  to the bank about the ways  it had dealt with this application. But she 
wasnt happy with its response.  So Mrs W brought the complaint to our service.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at this case. He said there were  four different elements to the 
complaint. In brief, these were: why wasnt there  a question  about probation  during  the 
application process; why did it seem  the loan was accepted online when further information 
was still needed;  why would NatWests systems only allow  one of Mrs Ws loans  to be 
repaid; and, did the bank lend her more  money  than she needed? 
At first, our adjudicator didnt think NatWest  needed  to do anything. But after further talks 
with both Mrs W and the bank, he thought Mr and Mrs W had been disadvantaged by not 
being told upfront  that it wouldnt use Mr Ws income if he was on probation. 
Our adjudicator thought this was an essential question that should have been  asked straight 
away. He said this meant the application in joint names would always have been declined.  
He thought NatWest  should pay Mr and Mrs W £150 for the distress and inconvenience  this 
had caused them. 
Ref: DRN49242842NatWest accepted the adjudicators view.  Mr and Mrs W didnt. Again in brief,  Mrs W didnt 
think the adjudicator  had properly considered  their circumstances  or understood their 
financial loss. 
As Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree with the adjudicators view, their complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision.  
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision dated 5 March 2020. In it, I explained  that Id considered all 
the available  evidence and arguments  to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I decided  not to uphold it. I explained why. 
I pointed that I was very aware that Id summarised this complaint in far less detail  and in my 
own words. I said I wasnt going to respond  to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy was intended by this. Instead, Id focussed on what  I thought was 
the key issue  here: did NatWest treat Mr and Mrs W fairly and reasonably  when dealing  with 
their loan application? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something I hadnt mentioned, it wasnt because  Id 
ignored it. I hadnt. I was satisfied I didnt need to comment on every  individual  argument to 
be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
I was also aware of both Mr Ws and Mrs Ws health  situations.  I didnt go into any detail 
about this to protect their privacy. I said I really  did appreciate their position. But in reaching 
my decision  in this case, I have  to put aside  my natural feelings of empathy and consider the 
case impartially and fairly. 
I then turned to the issue of NatWest not being  able to take Mr Ws income  into account 
while he was on probation in his new job. The adjudicator  didnt think  the banks process  
was fair to Mr and Mrs W. He said the joint loan application  was always  going  to be declined, 
even if Mr W supplied proof of income  to NatWest. The adjudicator  thought this was an 
essential question  that should  have been highlighted before the application  process started - 
similar to being told they needed to be over 18 and a UK resident. I didnt agree. 
What types of income a lender will or wont accept is part of its lending criteria.  This can, and 
will, differ  between lenders. A lenders criteria  is commercially  sensitive information that I 
wouldnt expect to be in the public domain. I said its down to NatWests commercial 
judgement what types of income its prepared to accept.  We wont  usually interfere with a 
banks commercial judgment where its been  exercised fairly and reasonably.  Here,  I thought  
it had been. 
The adjudicator thought  that a question about  probation should have been  included in the 
banks eligibility screening information before the application process  started, similar to 
needing to be over 18 and a UK resident. But these latter two pieces of information are 
simple for a bank to check. 
But if an unscrupulous applicant knew in advance about probation not being  acceptable,  
they would  have a chance to alter their application. Such an applicant  would have the 
opportunity to manipulate what they might  tell a bank about their employment,  or even doctor  
the income proof they then go on to supply. 
Ref: DRN49242843I stressed here that Im in no way, shape  or form at all suggesting that this would have been 
the case here, or that I was questioning  the scruples of Mr and Mrs W in anyway. I was just 
trying to give some context about  why a lender might decide not to mention probation at pre-
application screening. Such manipulation of income information does happen. So I didnt 
think NatWest treated Mr and Mrs W unfairly  by not mentioning probation from the outset. 
The banks process in such cases is to ask for further information and in some cases, 
manually underwrite the application. This can take up to five working days. Again, I didnt 
think this was an unfair, or overly long process.  As I didnt  think  NatWest  had treated 
Mr and Mrs W unfairly over this issue, it followed that I didnt require the bank to pay them  
£150 for any distress  and inconvenience. 
I then turned to why Mrs W thought the online application had been approved when, in fact, 
NatWest needed  further information from her and Mr W. I pointed out here that there is 
conflicting evidence  about this. In such cases, I reach my conclusions  on the balance  of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in the light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
NatWest had told us that when  Mrs W completed the joint loan application on the Sunday 
evening, she would  have  seen an onscreen  message.  This would have told her that the bank 
was making a few additional checks that it would try to complete automatically. The 
message went on to say the bank would be in touch if it needed any more  documents.  It 
ended by saying  once these documents are received, the loan funds would be in her 
account within two working days.  
But in her original  complaint to us, Mrs W said the application seemed to go through fine. 
She disputed seeing  the message referred to above.  Mrs W said that while NatWest has told 
us what she should  have seen, she saw something  different. Mrs W also provided  two letters 
from NatWest  that she said shows the banks systems  dont always  produce the correct 
information to consumers. 
I looked at these letters. The first was a settlement figure from February 2018 for one of 
Mrs Ws existing  loans. She told us she shouldnt have received  this. Instead shed been 
trying to re-finance her two existing loans. I accepted that was the case. But I wasnt  
surprised that a system  generated settlement figure  was sent to Mrs W, even if she didnt 
ask for it. She was, after all, looking to repay her loan at that time even if her application 
didnt go ahead. 
The second  was the first page of a letter  dated  29 May 2018. This was addressed to just 
Mrs W. It asked her to sign and return a copy of the credit agreement to NatWest. Mrs W 
said this letter refers  to the joint application, and even though the bank had told her it 
needed to verify both her and her husbands  income, this wasnt mentioned at all. 
But I could see the date of this letter was the same day that Mrs Ws application was actually 
approved in her sole name, without the need  for additional income proof. Given this, I wasnt  
surprised that NatWest sent just Mrs W a letter  asking just her to sign and return  the credit 
agreement. I accepted  it may have been  confusing for the letter  to mention the joint 
application But given  that the application  was originally in joint names,  I could understand 
why this might have happened. 
Ref: DRN49242844While these letters might  not have been exactly what Mrs W was expecting, I didnt agree 
they showed theres an underlying problem with the banks processes. So, taking all this into 
account, I wasnt satisfied  that these letters  show that its more likely  than not that NatWests 
systems would have shown an onscreen  message telling  Mrs W the joint application had 
been approved  when  actually, further  checks were  needed. 
There were also other reasons why I though it was more likely than not that the onscreen 
message shown to Mrs W didnt tell her the loan was approved and the money would be in 
her account  within  two working days. Firstly, Id listened to the calls Mrs W made  to 
NatWest. On the first call, she started by saying she thinks everything was approved  (my 
emphasis). She repeated  this later on in the call. 
I accepted that on other calls Mrs W was much  more definite about  the onscreen  message 
saying the loan was approved. But I thought the first call shows  Mrs W wasnt  100% certain  
that this was the case. 
More importantly, Id thought about  what Mrs W also told us in her submission from August 
2019. She said that after making the application on the Sunday evening, she noticed that 
she hadnt had any kind of auto-acknowledgement  from NatWest.  Mrs W went on to say that 
she spent the whole  of the following day  Bank  Holiday Monday  worrying about this, and 
called the bank as soon  as she could the next day. 
I was satisfied from this that Mrs W knew that there might be a problem. I accepted  she 
might not have known  the full details. But it was clear to me, from her evidence, that she 
knew the joint application might not have gone through. 
On the Bank Holiday  Monday, Mr and Mrs W paid a deposit to the garage.  That was their 
decision, and one they were absolutely entitled to make. But given, as Mrs W had 
acknowledged, that shed spent the whole of that day worrying about possible problems with 
the loan application, I didnt think any alleged error by NatWest  led them to do this. 
I then moved on to NatWests system limitations.  What systems a bank  has is an internal 
matter for individual businesses to decide. I explained that, as Mrs W is aware, we dont 
have the power  to tell a business  to change its systems. But we can look at whether those 
systems mean  that Mr and Mrs W were  treated  unfairly.  Thats what Id thought about here.  
Mrs W was unhappy that her application  for a loan in just her name  was initially rejected as 
her income wasnt high enough. This was because  NatWests  systems couldnt recognise 
that she was clearing both of her existing loans. The system  thought  she was only clearing  
one of the loans. This meant  it was still including the monthly payment on her other loan in 
the income calculation,  which meant the application  failed.  
I appreciated this would have been  very frustrating for Mrs W. But this didnt mean  she 
couldnt borrow the money from NatWest. Instead, it meant her application had to manually 
underwritten. NatWests  usual timescale  for doing this is five working  days. I was satisfied 
this is a fair and reasonable timescale.  Its not out of step with what  Ive seen elsewhere in 
the lending world. In any event, NatWest manually underwrote and approved  Mrs Ws loan in 
less than 12 hours. So I didnt think she was treated unfairly because of the banks  systems  
or processes. 
Lastly, I turned to Mrs Ws complaint that NatWest didnt take into account the pending 
payments on her existing  loans. Shed  told us that if the bank had done this, the settlement 
Ref: DRN49242845figures on these loans would have been lower and she wouldnt have needed to borrow  as 
much. This in turn meant  she would have  had to pay less for the new loan. 
On the Tuesday Mrs W was sorting  this loan out, I could see that the banks systems 
showed these  payments  as pending.  I knew Mrs W sent in evidence  that the payments left 
her account  the day before. But I was satisfied  these hadnt been credited to her loan 
accounts when  NatWest worked out how much she needed to buy the car and clear her two 
existing loans. 
I didnt know if this time lag was due to the bank  holiday. But I was satisfied NatWest worked 
out how much Mrs W needed to borrow based on the information available  to it at that time. I 
also know that its common  practice in these types of situations  for pending loan repayments  
that are subsequently credited to a loan account to then be refunded to the borrower.  Thats 
what I understand happened here. So Mr and Mrs W still had the benefit  of this money to 
spend. 
In summary,  taking all the above  into account,  I was satisfied  that NatWest  treated 
Mr and Mrs W fairly and reasonably when dealing with their loan application. 
I then gave the parties to weeks to make any further submissions, should they wish to do so. 
responses to my provisional  decision
NatWest confirmed it had received  my provisional  decision and didnt have anything further 
to add. Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with my provisional decision.  
Briefly, Mrs W maintains  NatWest had enough  information from the outset to know  Mr Ws 
employment status didnt meet its criteria. She said NatWests letter in May 2018 still 
suggests the banks systems dont always produce  what they should. 
Mrs W also said her testimony  should  be seen in context, and she was confident enough  
that the application had been accepted to pay the deposit. Mrs W told us that NatWest 
should know its system limitations  and should have  managed her expectations  accordingly.  
She also told us that shed trusted  NatWest to correctly  work out how much she needed to 
borrow.
my findings
Ive considered afresh all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Id like to thank Mrs W for her thoughtful 
and comprehensive  comments, and also her acknowledgement  that I wouldnt necessarily 
respond to all her points in detail.  As above,  I can confirm  that Ive fully considered her 
response to my provisional  decision. 
Mrs W says NatWest knew from the start how long Mr W had been in his current job. That 
may well have been the case. But wasnt the length of Mr Ws current employment that was 
the issue. It was the fact that he was still in his probationary period. While its common for 
someone to serve a probationary period when starting a new job, this doesnt always 
happen. Ive known many  roles where  new employees dont have a probationary period. So, 
Im satisfied NatWest wouldnt have known Mr W was still on probation until Mrs W told the 
bank about this two days after her online application. 
Ref: DRN49242846Ive thought about what Mrs W has said about  NatWests systems not producing  what the 
bank says they should. I accept that all banks systems and processes can, and do, send out 
incorrect information. But Im not persuaded that this makes it more  likely than not that 
NatWests systems would have shown  an onscreen message telling Mrs W the joint 
application had been approved when it hadnt.  
Mrs W says her testimony should be seen in the correct context. I totally  agree with this. Ive 
striven to ensure  Ive done this here. In her response to my provisional decision, Mrs W says 
she was worried because  shed had nothing in writing to confirm the application had gone 
through. This,  together with her original  testimony  means I remain satisfied  that, at the very 
least, Mrs W ought reasonably to have realised that there might  be a problem  with the 
application. 
Mrs W also says NatWest should have  known about its system limitations. She says she 
was told affordability would be fine, and then her application was declined for that exact 
reason. She says NatWest should have  managed  her expectations  from the outset, rather  
than giving her the impression  everything was ok. But Im satisfied that NatWest did manage 
her expectations and treated her fairly here.  
I say this because  while the bank said the loan was showing as affordable, it told her it still 
needed to go through  an application  which included a full credit score. I think this shows 
Mrs W should have known her loan application  hadnt been fully approved. I can also see 
that it was around  10 minutes after NatWest told her the loan was showing as affordable  
before it said the application was being declined  on affordability. Even if Mrs Ws 
expectations had been raised,  it would only have been for a matter of a few minutes. 
After this, NatWest went on to say the application  could be manually underwritten. NatWest 
told Mrs W that the normal timescale  for getting an answer was five working days.  Again, I 
think the bank  fairly  managed her expectations here. In the event, NatWest managed to give 
Mrs W an answer the same day. I cant  say that it treated her unfairly by giving her an 
answer quicker than expected. 
Finally, I remain  satisfied  that NatWests systems showed the monthly payments on Mrs Ws 
existing loans as pending. These payments were subsequently refunded to her so shes had 
the benefit of this money. 
I would repeat that I have a great deal of sympathy  for Mr and Mrs Ws position. But, after 
taking all the available evidence into account,  I still think NatWest treated Mr and Mrs W 
fairly and reasonably when dealing with their loan application. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN49242847
Ref: DRN4924284