K821x#15complaint
Mr R and Miss G have  complained that TFS Loans  Limited (TFS or the lender)  should  not 
have agreed a guarantor loan for them in May 2012.  
Background
TFS agreed a joint loan of £4,000  for Mr R and Miss G on the 20 May 2012. The monthly 
repayment was £320 over two years, and the total amount to be repaid  under the 
agreement came to about £7,758 (figures rounded) including  an up-front broker fee, a 
broker admin fee, a lender admin fee and interest.  
This was a guarantor loan, in other  words  it was granted  on the basis that the borrowers  
had a guarantor  who would be responsible for repaying the loan if they failed to meet their 
repayments.
I understand that Mr R and Miss G fully repaid the loan by March  2014 and that their 
guarantor didnt make  any repayments.  
Miss G says that the loan was unaffordable for them and that TFS should  have understood 
this from the amount of existing debt they had when theyd applied for it and the difficulties 
they were already having in managing their money.   
TFS said in its final response to Mr R and Miss G that the loan was to consolidate their 
existing debts, that theyd said in their application  form it would be affordable  and that the 
charges for the credit had been fully explained.  TFS accepted that it could have done more 
when the borrowers  missed payments  on the loan and offered to refund £153  of late fees 
that had been applied  as a result of returned direct debit payments. Mr R and Miss G didnt  
accept this offer and brought their complaint to this Service.
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and found that TFS should have gone further in its 
assessment of Mr R and Miss Gs ability to meet the loan repayments. Had it done so, she 
thought it was likely TFS would not have agreed  to lend at that time because  it would have  
seen that the loan repayments wouldnt be sustainable for them. So she recommended  that 
the complaint  be upheld  and that TFS refund the interest and charges the borrowers paid on 
the loan plus compensatory  interest.
TFS disagreed with this recommendation. The complaint came to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review. I issued my provisional  decision on the 8 February 2021 upholding the complaint and 
gave both parties a month to comment and provide further information should  they wish.  
Both parties  have responded  to my provisional  findings. 
Mr R and Miss G said that TFS caused  them distress, inconvenience and damage to their 
reputation and have asked  for compensation for this. They said that their guarantor knew  
about a direct debit  payment of theirs  that had been  returned before they did and that TFS 
caused them  stress and embarrassment. 
TFS said the following:
-The loan was agreed in May 2012 and therefore it has limited information available 
as over eight  years  have since passed.
-It doesnt believe that two years is a considerable  length  of loan term. 
Ref: DRN49306522-It always verifies applicants income and it would use a year-to-date  figure if that 
income was variable  due to working patterns.
-The mortgage payment on the credit  report is £664 therefore  the figure on the 
application was Mr R and Miss Gs individual contribution towards  the monthly 
payment.
-It produced a credit report for Mr R and therefore did look into the credit  
commitments for both applicants. There are no missed mortgage  payments showing 
on the credit report, the bank account is within the overdraft  limit and the lender has 
not defaulted the current account. 
-The credit card statements would not be required, as this could be seen on the credit  
report as showing  no signs of financial difficulty; doorstep lenders are not showing on 
the credit report, neither is the warning of court from the water company.  
-There were no recent signs of financial difficulty to request to see the customers  
bank statements.  The customers would have carried  out a review  of their finances  for 
a debt consolidation loan,  as stated on the application, and they would have one 
manageable monthly loan repayment. 
-Had it carried out further  checks,  for example asked  for bank statements, no further 
information would have  been  provided  to it at the time of the application to change  
the lending  decision  as the customers wanted a loan. The lender said that the 
evidence the customers have  produced to support their complaint would not have 
been made available to it at the time of the loan application, given that Mr R and 
Miss G wanted to borrow the money  though they now say that the loan was 
unaffordable. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As before, I have taken into account  the 
law, any relevant regulatory rules and good  industry  practice at the time.
I have also taken into account everything  TFS and Mr R and Miss G have said in response 
to my provisional decision.  Having done so, I have come to the same conclusions and for the 
same reasons. I wont set out my reasoning again  here in detail as I have included an extract  
of this in an appendix to this document, which forms part of my final decision along  with my 
consideration of both parties responses.
I started  my provisional decision by saying that this is a finely balanced case. I appreciate  
that the loan was agreed in 2012  so there is limited information available.  I have to make a 
final decision  on this case and I have  made  it on the basis of the available  information and 
on the balance  of probabilities, in other words on what I consider most likely to have 
happened. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for TFS and to some extent for Mr R 
and Miss G also. 
TFS has clarified one of the figures  it used in its underwriting and confirmed that it did check 
Mr Rs credit file at the time. TFS also mentioned that it always verifies applicants  income  
figures. I can accept all of this is true however, this doesnt change  my view that, on balance, 
its checks werent proportionate on this occasion.  
Id said in my provisional decision  that TFS hadnt mentioned anything about Mr R and 
Miss Gs committed outgoings or usual  living costs, aside from the mortgage payment and it 
hasnt since. Bearing in mind that Mr R and Miss G would need  to meet their loan 
Ref: DRN49306523repayments over a considerable length of time  two years   I still think  it would have  been  
reasonable for TFS to have understood what their regular expenses were  and independently  
verified these figures,  especially as it seemed  they had taken out expensive credit, some 
recently, and were not managing to make inroads into their debts. 
TFS says that it didnt  consider two years to be a considerable loan term but I disagree.  This 
was not a short-term  credit commitment but one which spanned  years  and I think the checks  
TFS carried  out needed to reflect  the risk to the borrowers of meeting  their repayments over 
that time.  
In addition, as I said in my provisional decision,  I think its likely that Mr Rs credit  report 
would have shown  over £16,000 of unsecured  debt across various products. The report Ive 
seen shows mortgage  repayments from February  2013 and there  are three missed 
payments that year, and the same again  the following  year. TFS says that there wasnt 
anything of concern  on either Mr R or Miss Gs credit records but, to reiterate, I dont know  
the details of what TFS saw on these as it hasnt provided a report or a summary to this 
Service, though  it has commented on its conclusions which  were  that whatever  debts  were  
recorded they were  being managed. From the information I have I dont think Mr Rs credit 
record would  have  provided reassurance to TFS that further credit would have been 
sustainable for them. Rather, it seems to me that it would have raised  concerns that further 
credit would only add to their indebtedness.  
Having reconsidered  the matter carefully,  I remain of the view that TFS checks werent 
sufficient to assess the sustainability of the loan and that it should either  have carried  out 
further checks or not entered  into a credit agreement with Mr R and Miss G. 
TFS says that the debts Id mentioned in my provisional decision, such as doorstep  loans  or 
water bills, would not have been  seen  on Mr R or Miss Gs credit  file. I agree that the latter  
would not have been at the time but doorstep loans  from regulated providers most likely 
would have been reported,  along  with short term loans. 
TFS also says that it wouldnt have been  provided with the evidence Mr R and Miss G have 
now provided to show  the loan was unaffordable. However, I think TFS ought to have  done  
more before agreeing credit which, as the regulations said,  was likely to involve more than 
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question. It 
needed to gather enough information  to be able to assess whether Mr R and Miss G could 
repay their loan without  undue difficulty. TFS could have asked Mr R and Miss G about their 
expenses and verified some of the information  by, for example, requesting bank statements 
from them, asking for copies of bills and/or receipts. Had it done  so, I dont think it would 
have been reassured about  the sustainability of the loan for Mr R and Miss G and so it would  
most likely have declined  to lend to them.  
As Id said in my provisional decision, I understand  Mr R and Miss G struggled to meet  their 
repayments, incurring  returned direct debit  fees almost immediately. I think  their difficulties 
were foreseeable, and TFS treated them unfairly  when it agreed this loan. Mr R and Miss G 
have lost out as they paid fees and charges for a loan that they should not have been  given 
and TFS needs to put this right for them.
Mr R and Miss G say that TFS caused  them distress when it contacted their guarantor  about 
a missed payment.  I havent seen any evidence of what was or wasnt said in 
communications between  TFS and their guarantor and I have no reason to doubt what  
theyve said about  their experience. However,  I can only assume their guarantor  knew about  
Ref: DRN49306524the loan and had agreed to step in should  they have been unable  to meet their repayments. I 
think its likely that Mr R and Miss G knew they didnt have the available  funds to cover the 
payment in question. So I cant conclude that this situation caused them distress to the 
extent that further  compensation  would  be appropriate.
what TFS needs to do to put things right
In order to put Mr R and Miss G back in the position they would have been in, had it not 
agreed to lend to them,  TFS should:  
-refund all interest,  fees and charges Mr R and Miss G paid for this loan. To be clear  this 
includes all fees listed in the agreement including any broker fees;
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement;
-remove any adverse information about this loan from Mr R and Miss Gs credit files;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must  give Mr R and 
Miss G a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if they asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I am upholding Mr R and 
Miss Gs complaint about TFS Loans Limited and require it to put things right for them as Ive 
said. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2021.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN49306525EXTRACT  FROM  THE PROVISIONAL  DECISION
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time.
Let me start by saying that this is a finely balanced case. The loan was agreed in 2012 so there is 
limited information available. I have made my decision on the basis of the available information and 
on the balance of probabilities, in other words on what I consider most  likely to have happened. 
Having considered  everything  carefully, I am upholding Mr R and 
Miss Gs complaint  as I find that TFS was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to them. I appreciate  
this will be very disappointing for TFS and I hope my explanation below makes  it clear  why I have 
come to this conclusion.
The Office of Fair Trading (OFT) was the regulator when  Mr R and Miss G borrowed from TFS. The 
relevant rules and guidance set out by the OFT in its Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) said that for 
all loans TFS needed to check that the borrowers  could  afford  to meet  their repayments in a 
sustainable manner. This meant Mr R and Miss G being able to meet their repayments out of their 
normal income without having to go without or borrow further.
The regulations werent prescriptive about  what checks TFS needed to carry  out in order to 
reasonably assess whether  or not they would  be able to meet their repayments sustainably. But the 
regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate.  This suggests  that the same checks 
might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same consumer in all 
circumstances. Ive highlighted some of the relevant guidance below  for ease.
ILG Paragraph 4.2 stated:
Whatever means and sources  of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment  of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought being
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than solely  
assessing the likelihood of the borrower  being able to repay  the credit in question. 
Paragraph 4.3 stated:
The OFT regards in a sustainable manner in this context as meaning credit that can be repaid  by the 
borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular  without  incurring or increasing problem  indebtedness 
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within  a 
reasonable period  of time 
out of income  and/or available  savings, without having to realise  security or assets.
And Paragraph  4.4 described undue difficulty:
The OFT would regard without undue difficulty in this context as meaning the borrower being  able to 
make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that were  not reasonably 
foreseeable at the time the credit was granted):
while also meeting  other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings; and
without having to borrow  further to meet these repayments. 
ILG 4.15 noted that that the regulator did not consider self-certification of income  would generally be 
sufficient in respect of significant long term credit  agreements
Ref: DRN49306526Altogether, Id expect a lender  to require  more assurance the greater the potential  risk to the borrower  
of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable  way. So, for example, Id expect  a lender to seek 
more assurance,  potentially by carrying  out more  detailed  checks
-the lower a persons income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
-the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
-the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is likely to 
be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind,  in coming  to a decision  on Mr R and Miss Gs case, I have considered  the 
following questions:
-did TFS complete  reasonable and proportionate checks when  assessing their loan 
application to satisfy itself that they would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? 
-if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?  
-ultimately,  did TFS make a fair lending decision?
TFS said in its final response to Miss G that she applied for a guarantor loan with her partner, Mr R, 
and that it used the information she provided  along with information from her credit report to assess 
her creditworthiness and the affordability of the loan. The lender says that her credit report didnt 
show any defaults or missed  mortgage payments  and, although shed  missed some payments on a 
mail order account  this hadnt happened within  the prior five months.  
TFS has provided a copy of the application form and I can see from this that Mr R declared a monthly  
income of £1,300 and Miss G an income of £830  including tax credits.  I note that they had one 
dependent and that Miss G had been with her employer for five months.  The application  form also 
states that Mr R and Miss G had a monthly mortgage payment of £332  its not clear whether this 
was a monthly total to be paid between them or if each of them paid this amount. 
The application stated that the purpose of the loan was to consolidate debts. It included a statement 
from Miss G to say that she had a few payday loans and credit cards and that she was making 
interest-only repayments on these. She said she would  be able to afford  to borrow from TFS as she 
would then have no other loans and just one monthly repayment  to make. 
I think  it would have been proportionate  for TFS to have  fully understood what  Miss Gs existing debts 
were, given she wanted to consolidate these. I dont  know if any of her debts had been taken out 
jointly with Mr R but, as this was a joint application for credit, I think it would  have been reasonable for 
TFS to have  also looked  into Mr Rs existing credit commitments.  
TFS hasnt provided any results or a summary  of what it saw on Miss Gs credit record and I dont 
know if it checked Mr Rs credit file. It said in its final response to Miss G:
Due to data protection I cannot disclose your partners  information  without his consent. I can assure 
you that all existing debt that was not to be repaid was deduced from his income. 
and;
Taking into account your committed outgoings the remaining disposable income  was £620.40.
However, TFS hasnt mentioned anything about Mr R and Miss Gs committed  outgoings  or usual 
living costs, aside  from the mortgage payments so Im not reassured  that it looked into either  
applicants expenses. Bearing in mind that Mr R and Miss G would need to meet their loan 
repayments over a considerable length of time  two years  I think it would have been reasonable for 
TFS to have  understood what their regular  expenses were and independently verified these  figures,  
especially as it seemed  they had taken  out expensive  credit, some recently, and were  not managing 
to make inroads into their debts. 
Ref: DRN49306527For completeness, I also think TFS ought  to have independently verified what Mr R and 
Miss G said about their income  I dont know if it did so. Miss G has mentioned that her income was 
variable  she says she worked  night shifts as she looked after her son during  the day. 
I dont have any more information about the assessment  TFS carried out. As mentioned,  it says it 
estimated that Miss G would have £640 disposable income each month but I dont really  know what 
figures this was based on and what, if any, level of independent verification was involved.  It seems 
odd that Mr R and Miss G had taken out expensive credit to the extent that it became unmanageable 
with that amount available to them each month. 
Altogether, I cant say that TFS carried  out a reasonable and proportionate check  here before 
agreeing this loan and Ive looked at what it might have found out, had it done so. 
Mr R and Miss G have provided  some information about their circumstances at that time.  Miss G said 
we had lots of payday loans, credit cards and so many missed payments,  including mortgage 
payments. She said that they used the TFS loan to repay some debt but it wasn't enough to pay 
back everything with all the arrears fees and bank charges for not taken direct debits.
Miss G provided correspondence from various  lenders  which supports what she says about her and 
Mr Rs finances at the time. This includes credit card statements from two banks showing additional  
fees for missed payments  and defaulted amounts  in March and April 2012; a demand for payment for 
a water bill (in Mr Rs name) including a warning of court action in July 2012; and correspondence  
from a number of short term and doorstep lenders later in the year chasing payment. I can see from a 
summary statement that in March 2012 the balance on one of Mr Rs credit cards was at its limit of 
£2,650. It seems in early 2013, debt collection agencies  were involved in recovering  considerable 
overdraft debts from both Mr R and Miss G.
Ive also seen  a copy of Mr Rs credit file (dated February 2019) which  shows that he had over 
£16,000 of debts, sole and joint, across current accounts,  credit cards and short term loans in 2012 
and 2013. The record includes missed mortgage payments. 
Mr Rs credit file shows limited information from before the TFS loan was taken  out so I cant  say 
exactly how much existing  debt he, or Miss G, had at the time. However, given the amount of Mr Rs 
debt and that it was mostly running account credit which Miss G had said they were only making  
minimum repayments  on, I think its reasonable  to conclude most if not all of what  I can see on the 
credit file was there  when TFSs loan was agreed. 
I find Miss Gs account  of her and Mr Rs financial difficulties plausible.  Taken together with the 
documentation Ive seen, Im persuaded that its more likely than not that in May 2012 they were  
struggling to manage  their existing level of outstanding debt and that further credit was not going  to 
help them make  inroads into it and only add to their indebtedness. I think its likely TFS would  have 
learnt this, had it looked further into their circumstances  before agreeing  to lend to them and so was 
irresponsible to have  done so. 
I understand Mr R and Miss G struggled to meet their repayments, incurring returned  direct debit fees 
almost immediately.  I think their difficulties  were foreseeable, and TFS treated them  unfairly when it 
agreed this loan. 
what TFS needs to do to put things  right
In order  to put Mr R and Miss G back in the position they would have been in, had it not agreed to 
lend to them,  TFS should:  
-refund all interest,  fees and charges Mr R and Miss G paid for this loan. To be clear this includes 
all fees listed  in the agreement including  any broker fees;
Ref: DRN49306528-pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the dates of 
settlement;
-remove  any adverse information about this loan from Mr R and Miss Gs credit files;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must  give Mr R and 
Miss G a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if they asks for one.
-END-
Ref: DRN4930652