K821x#15complaint
Ms P complains  that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) wont  let her 
reject a car she is financing on a hire purchase  agreement  with them, despite having 
requested to do so within 30 days and it being  not as described. 
background
Ms P took receipt of a new car in April 2018.  She financed the deal through  a hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS but she was disappointed to find that the car didnt come with the 
grab handles  she had been told it would.  So she contacted VWFS and explained  she wanted 
to exercise her right to reject the car within the first 30 days as it was not as described.
She explained that the main use of the car would be to transport her elderly mother  and a 
car without  grab handles  wouldnt be suitable and she explained that shed asked about this 
when she placed  the order with the dealership and was assured they were fitted as 
standard.
The dealership couldnt remember telling Ms P that she could have grab handles but they 
contacted a mobility  company to see if any could  be retrofitted. However, Ms P was 
concerned these would not be original equipment and would spoil the look of the vehicle. 
She was also concerned  they wouldnt be suitable for her mother. She therefore asked 
VWFS to allow her to proceed  with the rejection  of the vehicle and the termination  of her 
finance agreement.
But VWFS wouldnt agree to that. They said there  was no evidence  Ms P had asked for the 
handles and the dealership couldnt have offered them  as they were not an option on the 
model Ms P was interested in. They said as there was no proof the car was not as 
described, Ms P didnt have a right to reject it.
So Ms P referred her complaint to this service  and our investigator looked at the evidence. 
She found Ms Ps detailed  testimony reliable and noted that shed complained  very shortly  
after she received  the car. She noticed that Ms P had only driven the car for the first month 
and had subsequently stopped driving  it and had arranged an alternative.  So she thought 
VWFS should allow Ms P to reject the car and refund all but the first instalment as it was 
clear Ms P had used the vehicle during  the first month and subsequent delays had been due 
to VWFS  not accepting  Ms Ps position.  She also thought  they should refund any deposit 
and pay Ms P £150 to compensate her for the inconvenience caused.
But VWFS didnt agree. They said there was no proof Ms P had been told there would be 
grab handles  fitted and they thought it more likely that this was a case of buyers remorse. 
So they asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view on this complaint but I know that will disappoint VWFS so 
please let me explain  why.
Ref: DRN40943802Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  says that a consumer has the right to reject a car in the first 
30 days if, for example,  its not as described.
Here theres a dispute about what was said to Ms P and therefore a dispute about  how the 
vehicle was described. In that case I have to decide  what was most  likely to have happened 
and I think here, Im persuaded that its most  likely Ms P was told grab handles would be 
fitted.
I say that because:
Ms Ps detailed account  of her visit to the dealership is accurate in every other detail  
i.e. that she asked about cruise  control and arm rests and was told these were 
optional  which they are
she complained  very quickly as I would expect her to
shes not driven the car since 
there are grab handles fitted to other  reasonably similar models at the dealership and 
its possible Ms P saw them on these cars. This to some extent supports her 
argument she was told they came  on the model  she was buying but it also supports 
her account of her visit in which  she explains how she had considered  the feature 
important
So I dont  agree with VWFS  when they say theres  no evidence Ms P was told she would get 
handles with the car. I think, on the balance of probabilities, she was told and I therefore  
think VWFS should allow her to reject  the vehicle. 
I agree  with the investigators suggested redress. Ms P has used the car a little and I think  
VWFS should retain the first monthly instalment. But its clear Ms P hasnt driven the car 
since and has been waiting unduly  for VWFS to allow her to reject the it. So they should  
refund any other instalments paid and I think a payment of £150  for distress and 
inconvenience is also reasonable.
Its usual in these  circumstances for this service to ask for the deposit to be returned and I 
think that would be appropriate here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay
collect the car at no cost to Ms P
refund  all but one monthly payment and add 8% simple interest per annum from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement
Ref: DRN40943803refund  the deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
remove any adverse credit information  relating  to this issue  that may have been 
recorded on Ms Ps credit file
pay Ms P £150 to compensate her for the trouble and upset shes  been  put to
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4094380