K820x#14complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar)  Limited recorded two claims against her 
home insurance policy after she made a claim for damage from leaking radiators. Shes also 
complained that Admiral  recorded a fee of £45 for the second claim and didnt tell her it had 
done this.
background
In May 2016  Mrs S phoned  Admiral  and made  a claim  for damage caused by leaking 
radiators.
Admiral said its claims advisor told Mrs S that as the radiators were in different rooms,  they 
would be treated as two separate  claims. It said Mrs S agreed to proceed on this basis and 
she also agreed that her claim  details  would be shared with other organisations.
Admiral appointed a loss adjuster to manage the claims. The loss adjuster told Mrs S that 
she was liable to pay the first £350  of each  claim.  Mrs S decided it wasnt worth proceeding 
with one of the claims, so she withdrew it. Admiral paid a fee of £45 to the loss adjuster for 
that claim and this amount was recorded  on a central claims database.
When Mrs S took out a new home  insurance  policy with a different provider, she told them  
shed had a total of three claims, being  a water  leak from her attic, a freezer  contents claim 
and one claim for the radiators. Her insurer  later cancelled the policy.  It said she hadnt  told 
them that in fact shed had four previous claims since there were two radiator claims. That 
led to her paying more  for her insurance.
Mrs S complained to Admiral. She said she wasnt aware she was treated as having  made  
two separate claims. She said shed notified  them together and the loss adjuster had made 
one visit to inspect  the damage.  She also complained about the £45 fee recorded against 
the claim that had been withdrawn.
Admiral said it had made it clear to Mrs S from the outset  that it would treat the leaks as two 
separate claims. It said it was entitled to charge the loss adjusters fee against the claim that 
had been withdrawn because it was a valid cost associated with the claim.
Mrs S brought her complaint to this service.  Our investigator didnt uphold it. She thought 
Admiral had made it clear  it was treating the radiator leaks  as two separate claims. She 
didnt think Admiral had acted unfairly in applying a £45 to the claim that had been withdrawn 
since its loss adjuster had gone out to inspect the damage.  She also said it was common 
practice for insurers to log claims on an insurance  database.
As Mrs S didnt agree,  the matter has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Ive looked at whether Admiral acted correctly in treating the water  damage as two 
separate claims. I think  it did. Thats because there  were two separate  events leading  to 
damage in different rooms. 
Ref: DRN44199922Ive listened to the call Mrs S made  to Admiral  when she told it about the damage shed 
discovered to her carpets.  Admirals claims advisor  clearly told her shed need to make  two 
claims as the damage happened at different times in different rooms. Mrs S agreed to go 
ahead on that basis. During the call the claims advisor referred several times to there being 
two claims and he gave  Mrs S the two claim numbers. I dont think its Admirals fault if 
unfortunately Mrs S failed  to realise  the significance of this, 
Although Mrs S later withdrew one of the claims because the amount of the loss was less 
than the excess  payable under the policy, Admiral  still incurred a cost in sending  a loss 
adjuster out to investigate it. I dont think it acted unfairly in recording the loss adjusters fee 
against the withdrawn  claim since it was still a valid cost associated with that claim.  
I appreciate that Mrs S wouldnt have been  aware of this claim cost since  insurers  dont 
routinely volunteer  this information. But, as mentioned  above,  I think Admiral  did enough to 
make her aware that shed made two claims.
All insurance  claims  whether made, settled or withdrawn  are generally recorded  on an 
insurance industry database.  Admiral made  this clear in Mrs Ss policy  document  and its 
claims advisor also mentioned it during the initial telephone call. So I dont think theres  any 
more Admiral should have done to draw this to Mrs Ss attention. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4419992