Complaint
Miss D has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC wont refund transactions, which  she says she
didnt make.
Background
Miss D says she was the victim of financial control  and coercion by her ex partner, Mr W and 
his girlfriend Miss M. She says they controlled her bank account by retaining her card and 
setting up an online account, which she knew  nothing about.
She says they spent  £31,355.58 from her account between September  2011 and November 
2015. Most of the payments were online transfers  to Mr W and Miss M. Her account was left 
overdrawn as a result. Miss D wants Lloyds to refund the disputed payments and the interest 
and charges on the overdraft.
I recently issued my provisional  conclusions setting out the events leading  up to this complaint, 
and how I thought best to resolve it. Ive attached  a copy  of my provisional decision, which 
forms part of this final decision.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response to 
my provisional conclusions.
Miss D accepted my provisional findings.
Lloyds expressed  its sympathy with Miss Ds situation but also asked  additional questions, 
which I raised with Miss D. It also asked for the list of disputed transactions. 
The case  has now come  back to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint,  including Lloyds observations and additional  questions. 
Having done so, Im still persuaded  that Miss D didnt authorise the online transactions,  for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision. However, I will deal with Lloyds additional  
questions and observations.
Lloyds said the evidence cant tell us who set up online banking.  It remains  equally possible 
that Miss D set it up. It said it only keeps the online activity log for 12 months. Its now 
impossible to confirm an IP address or individual activity on an account  day by day. It said all 
correspondence about the setting  up of online banking  and the activation code wouldve been  
addressed to Miss D.
However, as Ive already stated, there was no online activity after Miss D parted company from 
Mr W and Miss M in 2015. According  to her bank  statements, shes been spending with a debit  
card from 2015 up to 2017.  Im persuaded she isnt a user of online banking.  The only period 
when there  were online transfers  was when she was with Mr W and Miss M. And nearly  all 
payments were made  to them, which I found odd.
Lloyds observed  that from 2013 through to 2014, there was no shopping activity  supermarket 
shopping in particular. Yet, an important part of Miss Ds version  of events is that Miss M used 
to take her shopping.  I asked Miss D about this but she couldnt remember  what  happened that 
year. However, looking at the statements, I can see occasional small payments to grocery  
stores and cash withdrawals. This isnt inconsistent with Miss Ds evidence that Mr W would 
also take her to the ATM and supervise her withdrawing cash. And its equally  possible they 
were maintaining her, which lends weight to her claims  of being under their control.
Ref: DRN4089798It also observed there was an arrangement to repay Mr W and Miss M for a loan for a car and 
she did have petrol expenses.  So, it asked  if this was a legitimate expense.
I asked Miss D about the loan. She admitted shed  borrowed money to buy a car but she didnt 
know how much  was coming out of her account. Im satisfied this was a genuine expense and 
that it should be deducted from her claim.
I appreciate Lloyds concerns here that Miss Ds position has shifted.  She now admits that 
some payments were  genuine ones. However, she has consistently maintained she didnt  
know what was paid,  when or how. I realise  there  are two sides  to the story and we have only 
one persons evidence (although I have seen witness  statements from Mr W and Miss M). But 
Miss D wasnt  earning much. She was receiving state benefits to supplement her income. I 
think its unlikely she wouldve made or consented  to regular payments in sums  ranging from 
£50 to £100/200 while she was on a low income.  
On balance, considering all the evidence,  Im not persuaded Miss D authorised the online 
payments and Lloyds  is obliged  to refund them.  However, I consider that the rental  payments 
and the loan were  genuine expenses from which she benefited so Im not asking Lloyds to 
refund these payments.
Redress
A list of the disputed  online  transactions was attached to the adjudicators view. Ive resent  the 
list to Lloyds, at its request. The relevant  period is September 2011 to November 2015.
The disputed transactions for this period total £ £31,355.58.
The list includes monthly standing orders for £450,  made payable  to Miss M. These  are the 
rental payments. According to my calculations, the total rent paid from September  2011 to 
November 2015  was £22,950.
The loan for the car was £3,000.
There are also two transfers to Miss D in March 2012 and October  2012. They total £148.
I am deducting the rental payments, the loan and the transfers  to Miss D from the total claim.
According to my calculations, the unauthorised transactions total £5,257.58.
Neither Lloyds nor Miss D has offered alternative  figures. Therefore, Im, asking Lloyds to 
refund the sum of £5,257.58 with 8% interest. Im also asking it to pay her £200  for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused to her.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint  and I am asking Lloyds Bank
PLC to:
refund  the disputed  transactions  totalling £5,257.58.
pay 8% interest on this amount from November 2015 until the date of refund
refund  any interest and charges  incurred as a result of any overdraft caused by this loss
pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience experienced by Miss D for the loss of her 
money, the time taken to recover it and pursuing  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
Ref: DRN4089798Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4089798Complaint
Miss D has complained that Lloyds  Bank  PLC wont refund transactions,  which she says she 
didnt make.
Background
Miss D says she was the victim of financial control  and coercion  by her ex partner  and his 
girlfriend. She says they controlled her bank  account.
Miss D said she met Mr W in 2008.  She was 26 at the time and Mr W was 56. She had been 
a rough sleeper but had turned  her life around and was nominated for a grant  from a 
prestigious funder.  Mr M gave Miss D a job in his business shortly  after they met. They also 
started a relationship,  unbeknownst to his then girlfriend, Miss M.
In October 2010, Mr W and Miss M provided Miss D with a room  to let in a house, which they 
rented out.
Miss Ds relationship with Mr W and Miss M deteriorated when Miss M found out about their 
affair. In November 2015, Mr W and Miss M served an eviction notice  on Miss D. In the same 
month, Miss D was admitted to hospital  following a breakdown.  She remains  under hospital 
care.
In February 2016,  with the help of a counsellor, she went through her bank statements and 
spotted transactions, which  she didnt recognise. There were  approximately 69 payments 
totalling £31,355.58, which were  made  from her account between September 2011 and 
November 2015.  Most  of the payments  were  made  to Mr W and Miss M. Her account was 
left overdrawn and it has been  accruing interest and charges.
She reported the matter to the Police, but they took no action and referred  her to Action
Fraud.
She contacted Lloyds  in May 2017 and asked for a refund.
Lloyds refused to refund her. It said:
it wasnt obliged to refund her, even if the transactions were unauthorised, because  
she raised her complaint  13 months after the transactions were  made
she knew about the transactions on her account  because she had called the bank to 
complain about bank charges in October 2010  and unauthorised transactions  in 2011  
and 2014
there were transfers to her savings  account,  which wasnt  typical  of fraud.
Lloyds later observed that there were non-disputed transactions,  for example on 
supermarket shopping, which proved she had possession and control of her debit card.
Miss D wasnt  happy with this outcome so she brought her complaint to this service.
She told us that Mr W took her debit card from her, but she kept a written note of the PIN in 
a drawer in her room and he had access to her room.
She explained that either Mr W or Miss M would take her shopping and hand her the card so 
she could pay for items and then they would take it back immediately. For example, she said 
she often went shopping with Miss M and her mother. She said they would all go to the 
supermarket together and separate to get their own shopping. They would meet  at the till
and go through,  one after the other,  and Miss M would hand her the card to pay for her 
shopping and then take it back.
Ref: DRN4089798She said Mr W would take her to the ATM and supervise her withdrawing cash. Sometimes, 
she would  be given  the card to go on her own to get the cash,  but she would  have to
return it to Mr W by a certain time.
However, the disputed  transactions  comprise standing orders  for rent and additional  online 
transfers to Mr W and Miss M. None of the disputed transactions are card transactions.
The adjudicator didnt recommend upholding this complaint. She concluded that the 
transactions were  authorised by Miss D because:
there were genuine card transactions, which proved Miss D had control over her 
account
there were transfers to her savings  account,  which she thought was inconsistent  with 
fraud or with third parties having  control  of her account
it was more likely than not that Miss D set up online banking because  of the transfers  
to her savings account
she clearly  owed  Miss M money for rent and had received a benefit  for the payments.
In summary, the adjudicator decided that Miss D had control of over her finances and that 
she had authorised the disputed transactions.
Miss D didnt accept the adjudicators view. She has asked  for an ombudsmans  final 
decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where  
appropriate, what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the relevant time.
The adjudicators view sets out the facts,  the transactions,  the relevant regulations and the 
evidence. Both Miss D and Lloyds  have read the adjudicators view, so I wont  repeat every  
detail here,  only those which form the basis  of my decision. However, I can assure  Miss D 
and Lloyds that Ive read the file, including  their comments and evidence.  Having done so, I 
have come to a different  conclusion to that reached by the adjudicator. Ill explain why.
I should start by saying  that Ive seen a psychiatric  report on Miss D. At Miss Ds request, we 
shared that report with Lloyds. So theres  no need for me to go into the details. Suffice  to
say, Im satisfied  Miss D is an extremely vulnerable consumer, that she was vulnerable when 
she met Mr W and has continued to be a vulnerable person throughout this complaint.
13 months rule
I will now deal with Lloyds argument that it doesnt  have  to refund Miss D because of the 
delay in bringing her complaint.
The adjudicator referred  to the relevant regulations in her view.  These  are the Payment 
Services Regulations 2009 (the PSRs 2009). This is the law, which  applies to complaints 
about disputed  transactions.
The relevant  regulations  state that:
(1) A payment service user is entitled  to redress,  only if it notifies the payment service  
provider without  undue delay, and in any event no later than 13 months after the debit  
date, on becoming aware of any unauthorised or incorrectly executed  payment  
transaction.
Ref: DRN4089798Very briefly, this means that Miss D is only entitled  to a refund if she notified  Lloyds about
an unauthorised  payment  immediately and no later than 13 months  after the payment left her 
account.
In this case, the last unauthorised payment left her account on 16 November 2015. Miss D 
didnt raise her concerns  with Lloyds until May 2017. So, under the relevant  regulations,  
Lloyds isnt obliged  to refund her.
However, my role as an ombudsman is to apply  a fair and reasonable approach,  when 
considering a complaint, after taking into account the relevant regulations.  And if there are 
unusual or exceptional reasons why Miss D didnt make a complaint promptly,  then I may 
depart from the 13 months rule.
Miss D said she was waiting for the police to complete  its investigations. And when the 
police decided to take no action, she complained to Lloyds. On its own, I dont think  that 
counts as an unusual  or exceptional reason. However, since November 2015,  Miss D has 
been under  hospital care and in an extremely vulnerable state. Her health and wellbeing 
have been priority issues. As I mentioned, Lloyds has seen  the psychiatric report and so it is 
fully appraised of her circumstances.
I dont think she was in any fit state to raise a complaint immediately or within 13 months. 
For this reason, I think its fair and reasonable to set aside the 13 months rule.
Disputed transactions
I now need to clarify which transactions are in dispute.
Ive seen the list of disputed transactions which Miss D sent us. The transactions  are all 
payments to Mr W and Miss M. They include monthly standing orders  for £450, made 
payable to Miss M. These are the rental payments. According to my calculations, the total 
rent paid from September 2011 to November  2015  was £22,950.
We have spoken  to Miss D again  since our adjudicator issued her view. She now accepts 
that the rental payments  were a genuine  expense, even though  she says she didnt set up 
the standing order.
I understand why Miss D feels aggrieved at the loss of control and autonomy over her 
finances. Even if payments are genuinely owed, an individual wants to feel in control  of their 
money. However, Miss D is no longer  asking  for a refund of the rental payments. But even if 
she were,  I agree with the adjudicator that shes had the benefit  of accommodation and it 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable  to refund the rental  payments.
The remaining  disputed transactions are payments to Mr W and Miss M. I understand these 
were made from an online account. I havent  seen an online audit but Lloyds  hasnt denied  
these were made online.
It is these transactions which  I now need  to consider. According to my calculations, they total
£8, 405.58.
Did Miss D authorise the transfers  to Mr W and Miss M?
Ive already referred to the relevant regulations  - the Payment Services Regulations  2009.  
These explain that a payment out of someones  account can only be authorised if the payer
has consented to it. The payment service  provider (in this case,  Lloyds) must show the 
payment was authenticated. But its not enough for the bank simply to rely on the fact that 
the card and PIN or other  payment security features were used; that doesnt necessarily 
mean that the payment  transaction  was authorised  by the account  holder.
Ref: DRN4089798Whether a payment has been authorised or not is important because  account holders will be 
liable for payments  theyve  authorised  and, generally speaking, banks will be liable  for 
unauthorised payments.  But account holders  can become liable for unauthorised payments 
when they havent met certain obligations. These  obligations are set out in Reg 57 PSRs
2009.
Authentication
Authentication is the procedure, which allows the bank to verify  the identity of its customer or 
the validity of the use of a specific  payment  instrument, including the use of the customers 
personalised security  credentials. This can be done in a number of ways (e.g. chip and PIN, 
card number, CVV and expiry date,  log in details etc.).
As Ive mentioned,  I havent seen an online audit report showing the transfers  to Mr W and 
Miss M. However,  the transfers are clearly shown  on the bank statements. I think  I can 
safely conclude that for this to happen, the banks online procedures must have been 
followed.
Based on this information, Im satisfied that the payments from Miss Ds account were 
authenticated. As Im satisfied that the payments were authenticated,  I then need to 
determine whether  Miss D consented to the payments being made.
Authorisation
A payment  out of someones account can only be treated as authorised if the payer has 
consented to it. So the customer must have consented to a payment transaction taking 
place. Ive gone on to consider here whether I think Miss D consented to the transfers and 
whether they were  authorised.
Miss Ds current  account was opened in February 2010, shortly after she met Mr W. She 
says Mr M and Miss M opened the account for her. It is no coincidence, perhaps,  that Mr
Ws business account is also with Lloyds. I think this lends some weight to the argument that 
they were,  at best, helping her to manage her finances and opened  the account for her.
An ISA account was opened at the same  time.  She also had two savings accounts, which  
were closed in April 2010 and March 2012.
Online banking was set up when  the current account was opened.  Miss D says she didnt 
set up the online account because she didnt know how to . She believes Miss M set up 
online banking at the business premises. She also believes  Miss M later changed all the 
login details, giving her sole control  of the online account. Lloyds hasnt confirmed if the log 
in details were changed  .
Almost all the online payments are transfers  to Mr W, Miss M or to Miss Ds savings account. 
There is one payment to another third party, which Miss D hasnt commented on.
I have to consider whether Miss D authorised these transfers, which includes asking whether 
she consented to them.
Miss D said she didnt  set up online banking or use it. I note there  is no online activity after 
Miss D moved out in 2015. Admittedly, she was in hospital for a while but her bank 
statements up to 2017 show that shes been  spending with a debit card. I cant see any 
transactions which look like online payments.
I dont think shes a user of online banking. And the only period when there  were  online 
transfers was when she was with Mr W and Miss M.
I think its odd for the only online transactions, other than to the savings account,  to be 
transfers to Mr W and Miss M. Unusually,  we have court documents, which  include witness 
statements by Mr W and Miss M. He mentions the rental payments. And he said Miss D 
Ref: DRN4089798used to put money in his account so he could buy things for himself. He makes no mention 
of payments to Miss M (other than rent).
Miss M said that Miss D used to buy gifts for them. And she said they bought her a car for
£3,000 and she paid them back. However, the transfers exceed  this amount. If they were  
genuinely owed  debts, then why did they not set up a standing  order,  as they did for the 
rent? Moreover, given  that Miss D was probably not earning very much, I think  its unlikely 
she would  have made regular payments to them of sums ranging from £50 to £100/200.
I note that Lloyds and our adjudicator queried  whether this was fraud because of the 
transfers to Miss Ds savings account. They ask why Mr W and Miss M would do this? But 
Miss D has consistently said that they controlled  her finances. And they too admit to helping 
her manage her money  and debts. I dont think its inconsistent  that they helped her whilst  
also making payments  to themselves without her consent.
In summary, based on this evidence, I dont  consider that Miss D was using the online 
account or that she consented to the payments to Mr W and Miss M . I consider that the 
online transfers were  unauthorised.
Did Miss D fail with intent or gross  negligence to comply  with the obligations  set out in Reg
57 of the PSRs 2009]?
Regulation 57 for PSRs 2009  says that account holders must use their card, and other 
payment instruments, in accordance with the terms and conditions governing its issue and 
use. And they must  take all reasonable steps to keep their personalised security  credentials, 
such as their PIN and passwords, safe.  They must also tell their bank without undue delay 
on becoming aware that their card is lost or stolen, or that its been  used without  their 
consent.
Whether a customer has acted with gross  negligence  has to be assessed on a case  by 
case basis taking into account  all the circumstances
If an account holder  fails with  intent  or gross  negligence to comply  with regulation 57 for 
PSRs 2009, theyll  become liable for unauthorised payments instead  of the bank. If a bank 
is alleging that an account holder has failed in this way, they must provide supporting 
evidence.
Lloyds hasnt provided any evidence that Miss D failed with intent or gross  negligence to 
keep her banking  details safe.  Similarly,  the adjudicator didnt  address  this issue in her view.  
However, Im obliged now to consider it.
The starting point  here is that Lloyds is not relying  on intent or gross negligence.  And it 
hasnt provided  any evidence that these considerations  apply. But given what I know about 
the circumstances, I dont think Miss D has acted with intent or gross negligence because:
theres no evidence  that Miss D didnt  keep her personalised security credentials
safe
Miss D said she didnt  set up or use online banking so didnt even know  the log in 
details
Miss D was extremely vulnerable
she was never in control  of managing her account and finances.
Ive also considered whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Given  her Miss Ds 
vulnerability and mental  state and the third parties own admissions that they were managing 
her finances,  I think its fair and reasonable that Lloyds should refund the transfers which
6
Ref: DRN4089798K821x#15were made to Mr W and Miss M, other than the rental payments. For what  its worth, I think a
court would also have  regard  to Miss Ms personal circumstances when considering  
the question of intent.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I am upholding this complaint  and I am asking Lloyds Bank
PLC to:
refund  the disputed  transactions  totalling £8, 405.58
pay 8% interest on this amount from the time the transactions  left the account 
until they are refunded
refund  any interest and charges  incurred as a result of the overdraft
pay £200 for the distress  and inconvenience  experienced by Miss D for the loss ofthe 
distress and inconvenience experienced by Miss D for the loss of  her money, the 
time taken to recover it and pursuing this complaint.
Ref: DRN4089798