K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mrs H says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs Hs credit card application had a section  for PPI. It gave a brief overview of what  it 
was for and what it cost,  and said it was something the bank recommended  this was 
only a recommendation, not a requirement. There was a box that could be ticked if Mrs H 
wanted PPI, or which could be left blank if she didnt  want it. The box for PPI was ticked 
and Mrs H signed the application  to confirm her choices. So I think  that Lloyds made it 
clear Mrs H didnt  have  to take out PPI and that she chose to take it  though I can 
understand why she might not remember this after so long.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs H, so it had to check that the policy was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example, it looks like Mrs H was eligible  for the cover and wasnt affected  by any of its 
main exclusions  or limitations.  The policy wouldve paid out on top of Mrs Hs work 
benefits and it offered  her more comprehensive  cover. So it couldve been useful for 
Mrs H in case she was off sick or lost her job.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it looks  like she chose to take out the policy, which indicates she 
wanted this type of cover.  As I said above, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and it could have  been  useful for Mrs H in case 
something went wrong. And so I dont think better information  about the PPI would have 
put her off taking  out the cover. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell her, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN41906312what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mrs H any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Mrs H the difference between 
what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mrs H 8%* simple interest if 
she paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs H can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done  this, then I dont award 
any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4190631