K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Provident  Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) was 
irresponsible to lend him money.
background
This complaint is about two loans Satsuma  provided to Mr M.  
In July 2016, Mr M borrowed £510  when he took out loan 1. He was due to repay this loan 
by way of 43 weekly  instalments  of £23.60. Mr M paid this loan in full.
Mr M borrowed £1,000 when he took out loan 2 in May 2017.
Loan 2 started  the same  day he paid loan 1. Mr M wasnt able to keep up the monthly 
repayments of £220  and this loan hasnt been paid. 
Mr M complained to Satsuma that it didnt carry out appropriate affordability  and credit 
checks and had it done so would not have agreed  to lend to him. Satsuma didnt uphold  his 
complaint so Mr M contacted us.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ms complaint and thought loan 2 shouldnt  have been 
given. She said that Satsuma should refund all interest and charges Mr M paid on loan 2, 
pay interest on this amount and remove any negative information  about loan 2 from Mr Ms 
credit file.
Satsuma reconsidered  the complaint and told us that it accepted our adjudicators view. 
Satsuma offered to uphold the complaint in line with what  shed recommended. 
But Mr M doesnt think that whats been  suggested goes far enough to resolve his complaint. 
In particular, hes worried about the information  Satsuma says it will put on his credit  file. 
So the complaint comes  to me to decide. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN49444372But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Satsuma was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably  repay  his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments  without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Satsuma told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr M. It asked Mr M to provide 
details of his income  and to tell Satsuma what he normally spent each month  including 
what he paid towards any other credit  arrangements  he had set up. Satsuma carried  out 
checks on Mr Ms credit file. Satsuma also told us it adjusted the figures  where it thought it 
helpful to try and reflect  Mr Ms real life financial circumstances as accurately as possible. 
Ive seen a summary  of the results  of those checks and they dont show anything that I think 
should reasonably have  made Satsuma think loan 1 wasnt  affordable  for Mr M.
Mr M told us that Satsuma wouldve seen he had an ongoing gambling problem if it had 
done better checks. So Ive thought carefully about whether Satsuma ought reasonably to 
have looked into Mr Ms finances  in more  detail or taken steps to verify the information hed 
provided when  he applied for loan 1. 
Ref: DRN49444373Mr M planned to repay the loan over quite a long period  of time. So Ive considered whether 
this should reasonably have prompted  Satsuma to look further into Mr Ms finances. But 
I think its fair to take into account that this was Mr Ms first loan from Satsuma. It was 
relatively low in value  with low repayments compared to what  hed told Satsuma about  his 
income - and this was still the case even after Satsuma adjusted that figure downwards to 
allow an extra safety margin. So I think Satsuma was reasonably entitled to rely on Mr M to 
provide all the information it asked in order to be able to make an informed lending decision.
The repayments that Mr M had agreed to make on this loan looked comfortably affordable  
compared to the income that hed declared to Satsuma. 
I appreciate that Mr Ms circumstances  might not have  been reflected in the information 
Satsuma had. But, looked at overall,  given the loan repayment amounts,  what was apparent 
about Mr Ms circumstances  at the time and his borrowing history  with the lender at that 
stage, I dont think it wouldve been  proportionate  for Satsuma to ask him for the amount of 
information that wouldve been  needed to show the lending was unsustainable before 
agreeing the first loan.
So I dont  uphold Mr Ms complaint about  loan 1  even though it turned out that he had 
problems making all the repayments on time.
But by the time he asked  for loan 2, Id expect Satsuma to have taken into account  Mr Ms 
repayment record on loan 1. I think a reasonable lender  ought  to have realised that his 
record of payment problems indicated that Mr M had money problems as he was finding it 
difficult to afford to pay for the borrowing hed taken  out.
Our adjudicator pointed  out that Satsuma gave Mr M loan 2 the same day that he repaid his 
first loan  which  I think suggested that he urgently needed the extra  cash. And it was for 
double the amount hed already shown he had a problem repaying.
I dont think it was reasonable  for Satsuma to conclude  that it was likely Mr M would be able 
to repay  loan 2 in a sustainable manner. So I think Satsuma is right to accept now that this 
loan was likely to be unaffordable for Mr M  as it proved to be. 
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint  about loan 2.
When thinking about what Satsuma should  do to put things right for Mr M, Ive thought 
carefully about what Mr M says about  information its fair to put on his credit file. 
I think, despite what Mr M says, its reasonable for Satsuma to put on his credit  file 
information that fairly reflects what  happened   and Mr Ms current situation.
Loan 2 wasnt  affordable  for Mr M. So the fair way to put things right as far as his credit file 
goes is to remove the negative information thats been recorded about  loan 2  in other  
words, the information  thats due to the payment problems that resulted from Satsuma giving 
him this unaffordable loan. Its fair that the credit file should still show that Mr M borrowed 
this loan from Satsuma  as hes had the benefit of that money. 
And as he couldnt  pay the loan in line with the contractual repayment  terms, he is now in an 
arrangement to pay. So a note to this effect  on his credit file accurately reflects  his situation.  
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome Mr M is hoping for. But I hope  that setting things out 
this way helps  explain why Ive reached  this decision.
Ref: DRN49444374I dont know if Mr M is aware that he has the right to add a short explanatory  note on his 
credit file (up to 200 words). This is called a notice of correction. So if hed like prospective 
creditors to be aware  of the background circumstances that led to an entry on his credit file 
that he wants to explain,  he can do this  and the information should be taken into account if 
he applies  for credit.  
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do 
In line with what our adjudicator suggested,  Satsuma offered to deduct the interest  
from loan 2 (£998)  and treat the £697  Mr M has paid so far as payments made 
towards the original  £1000 capital balance - which leaves him owing £303.  (And  it 
seems that Mr M was willing to accept  this.)  So Satsuma should  do as it has offered.  
I remind Satsuma that it should  take a constructive and sympathetic  view when 
seeking to agree  an affordable repayment plan with Mr M.
And if Mr M would like help to manage  his finances theres more information  on our 
website about  how to get free debt advice or help setting up a repayment plan  or 
we can provide contact details if he gives  us a call. 
Satsuma should remove  adverse  historic  arrears information  recorded about loan 2 
from Mr Ms credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
I partially uphold  Mr Ms complaint and Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as 
Satsuma) should put things right for Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4944437