K820x#14complaint
F is a not-for-profit organisation, represented in this complaint by Mr I. He complains on Fs 
behalf that Barclays Bank UK plc wont refund £5,000 of withdrawals that he says werent 
authorised. Ill refer to F as the Society.    
background
In or about April 2017 the Society  opened  a community  account  with Barclays.  There were 
two signatories to the account, one of whom was Mr I. Barclays issued two debit cards  for 
use with the account, one for each signatory.
Although the account was opened in April 2017,  it wasnt used. Mr I has explained that the 
Society had an account with a different provider; it opened the Barclays account with the 
intention of switching  its banking arrangements, but hadnt done that at the time the 
complaint arose.
Over two days in December 2017  a total of £5,500 was transferred into Fs account  by two 
telephone transfers from Mr Is personal  account. Over the same two days that money was 
withdrawn in cash in a series of cash machine  and Assisted Service Device (ASD) 
withdrawals in two different locations. ASDs are located in some  Barclays  branches and 
allow cash withdrawals of up to £2,000   more than a cash  machine; larger withdrawals 
require additional  security information  as well as a PIN. 
Mr I said he knew  nothing about the transfers  from his personal account or the withdrawals 
from the Societys account.  Im dealing here only with the withdrawals from Fs account. 
Barclays wasnt persuaded however that Mr I neither made  nor authorised  the withdrawals. It 
noted that they were made  using  the card in Mr Is name and the correct PIN. Mr Is 
explanation of how someone  else could  have got hold of the card and known  his PIN was 
not, it thought,  persuasive. He referred  his complaint to this service, and one of our 
investigators considered  it.
The investigator didnt  believe  that the withdrawals were unauthorised.  He thought it unlikely 
that someone had been able to obtain  both the card and the PIN and had used them to 
make withdrawals without Mr Is knowledge  or authority. Mr I didnt accept the investigators 
conclusions and asked  that an ombudsman review  them.           
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached the same overall 
conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar  reasons. 
As Ive indicated, my decision here concerns only the Societys complaint about the cash  
machine and ASD withdrawals. Mr Is own complaint about  the transfers from his personal 
account to Fs account is a separate one. I should  say though that I think  it likely that the 
transfers and the withdrawals were connected  and almost  certainly  made by the some 
person. 
The banks records show that two cards were issued on the Societys account. They also 
show that the card in Mr Is name was used to make the withdrawals. Im satisfied that it 
was, and that the genuine card (and not a copy or clone of it) was used. 
Ref: DRN44389852Im satisfied too that a PIN was sent to Mr I when  the card was issued. Barclays  records 
also show that the PIN was changed at a cash machine at around the same  time. That is, 
the card and the PIN were  used together in April 2017. 
Much of Mr Is evidence  about what happened was contained in a telephone call with the 
bank about a week after the disputed  withdrawals. Ive listened to a recording of that call, 
and I understand  Mr I has a copy of it as well. Hes said that he thought  the person he spoke  
to was rude, aggressive  and misleading. I note that Barclays did pay some compensation for 
the way it handled the call. The call-handler did at one point give the wrong location for one 
of the withdrawals, and it might have been  more  accurate to refer to the account as a 
community rather than a business account. But I dont agree that she was rude or 
aggressive. She was entitled to ask questions  of Mr I so she could  understand how the 
withdrawals took place. 
Unfortunately, when she did ask those questions, Mr Is responses were  in some cases 
inconsistent. For example, he said that he had the PIN stored  on his phone; he later 
suggested that it might have been intercepted. Similarly he appeared to say that he still had 
the card, but then said he didnt know where it was. 
When later challenged  on this, Mr I suggested hed been confused and thought  he was 
discussing his personal account and card. Im afraid  though I dont accept that. It was clear  
which card was being discussed, and Mr I even  asked if the other  card on the account had 
been cancelled.  The other card holder was with him, and there can have been  no doubt 
which card,  PIN and account were  under  discussion. Mr I is highly successful,  both 
academically and in business, and Ive no doubt that he would have sought clarification if he 
had been confused by what  he was being told. 
Mr I says that he contacted the police and that they told him theyd  seen security  footage  of 
the withdrawals taking place. That footage showed someone other than Mr I making the 
withdrawals. As the investigator noted,  however,  that doesnt necessarily mean that Mr I 
didnt authorise  someone else to make the withdrawals. But, given what  hes said about his 
card and his PIN, I dont  believe  the withdrawals were unauthorised. 
It may be that Mr I didnt make  the withdrawals himself. Im afraid though  that I found what  
he said about his card and PIN to be inconsistent and unconvincing. In the circumstances, I 
cant fairly ask Barclays to make a refund.  
Mr I has said that the banks security systems should have flagged up the fact that large 
withdrawals were being made in a short space of time on an account that had not previously  
been used. That was out of character and indicative of fraud. I agree with Mr I that the 
payments into the account and subsequent withdrawals were  unusual, although that would 
be true of any use of the Societys  account  after it had been unused  for several  months. But, 
since Im satisfied that Mr I authorised those withdrawals, I dont need to comment  any 
further.          
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Fs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to 
ask F (through Mr I) to accept or reject  my decision before 5 April 2020.
Ref: DRN44389853Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4438985