K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined his claim for compensation under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act in respect of a package holiday.
background 
In 2018 Mr C and his wife went on a package  holiday to South Africa,  which  he paid for with 
his HSBC credit card (he says there  were  two payments totalling £6,698).  He complains 
about the following problems:
One of the hotels  was poorer quality than advertised,  and this was a misrepresentation.
A domestic flight to Cape Town was cancelled,  and they were put on a five hour bus 
journey to Johannesburg (with no food or drink)  to catch an alternative  flight.
The tour guide told them they did not have  to check in for their flight  home. This was 
true for people  on a group ticket, but Mr and Mrs C had not been told they had got 
individual tickets. This meant they were told they could not board the plane,  which  
caused them great stress (although  they did eventually get on the flight in the end).
When Mr C claimed compensation from HSBC under section 75, HSBC  lost the 
documents he had sent it, and blamed this on the post office, even though  the 
documents had been signed  for on receipt. He says HSBC staff were generally 
unhelpful and uncooperative.
HSBC rejected Mr Cs claim,  because  it said it had not received documents  he had originally 
sent, and when it had asked him to try again it had received no reply.  So Mr C brought  this 
complaint to our Service. At first, HSBC maintained that it had not received anything from 
Mr C. Once our investigator showed HSBC Mr Cs evidence  that his documents had been 
signed for, HSBC  argued that section  75 did not apply to his claim, because  the travel  agent 
he had booked his holiday with was not responsible  for what the hotel and airlines  did. 
HSBC also said there  was no evidence that the hotel was substandard, and the cancellation 
of the flight had not been foreseeable.
Our adjudicator said that section 75 did apply, because Mr C had booked a package holiday, 
and the law makes travel  agents  liable for problems  with flights  and accommodation in 
package holidays.  But she still did not uphold this complaint, except to recommend that 
HSBC pay Mr C £50 for its poor handling of his claim. She did not think  there was enough  
evidence that the hotel  was of poorer quality than expected for a three star hotel. The hotel 
had good ratings  on three review websites. The travel agents terms and conditions  said it 
would only be liable  for a cancelled flight if it was due to unforeseeable  or unavoidable 
circumstances. The flight had been cancelled because the South African civil aviation  
authority had suspended  the airline.  The travel agent had done its best to provide alternative 
transport, but had been unable to arrange another flight from the same  airport.  The travel 
agent had told Mr C in writing that he would have to check in. The travel agent had offered 
Mr C £100 compensation  for its tour guide telling him the opposite,  and the adjudicator 
thought that was fair.
HSBC accepted that opinion. Mr C did not. He said the cancelled flight had been  booked 
with a different  airline to the one which had been suspended, so no sensible explanation had 
been advanced as to why the flight had been  cancelled. The bus journey was a poor 
substitute for flying from the original airport, as it had effectively wasted a day of his holiday. 
He insisted that the hotel  had been awful, and that no one had told him that he and his wife 
were not on a group ticket. Finally,  he said that £50 was a derisory sum for HSBCs 
customer service  failings.  He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN44475842my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have decided  to 
increase the £50 compensation  for how HSBC handled this matter to £100, but otherwise 
I do not uphold  the rest of this complaint. I will explain why.
Before I do that, I will begin with how HSBC dealt with Mr Cs claim.  Mr C has provided a 
receipt from the post office showing that he sent his original documents to HSBC by signed 
for delivery,  and to the correct postcode.  There is also evidence that the package was 
signed for by a member of HSBC staff when it was delivered. So it wasnt  lost in the post,  it 
was successfully delivered and then lost by HSBC. But HSBC insisted to Mr C that it had 
never received his package, and asked him to send it again.
I think that error, on its own, would merit compensation  of £50, but Mr C has described  a 
number of phone calls in which  he was on hold for a long time,  and in which  the people  he 
spoke to were less than helpful. Our adjudicator asked for the call recordings, but these do 
not seem  to have been provided, so I will accept Mr Cs description  of the calls and increase 
the compensation to £100.  I know that this is still much less than Mr C wanted, but I think  it 
is in line with what our Service would typically award.
I now turn to Mr Cs claim under section 75. That section gives him the same right to bring  a 
claim against HSBC as he already has against  the travel agent  if there  has been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation by the travel  agent. As Ive said, the travel agent is also 
broadly liable for what the hotels and airlines did. So to uphold  this complaint, I would have 
to find that there has been a breach of contract  or misrepresentation. (A misrepresentation is 
a false statement of fact which  caused  Mr C to enter a contract.)
Mr C has described a rather  unpleasant  stay in one of the hotels, where he and his wife 
stayed for two nights  (out of 17 altogether).  Partly  that was because of rowdy guests making 
too much  noise, but I cant hold the hotel,  the travel agent, or (it follows) HSBC  liable for the 
actions of the other guests. I dont think that can amount to a misrepresentation of the hotel. 
The other problems  Mr C describes were  poor meals, poor service, and in particular,  
dishonest attempts by bar staff to overcharge for drinks, or to substitute more  expensive 
drinks for those ordered. However, there is no evidence to corroborate  this, and a popular 
review site with nearly 300 reviews does not describe any of these issues  (although several  
do refer to noisy guests). I dont doubt  that Mr and Mrs C did encounter some problems at 
the hotel, but not every  problem with service will necessarily be so bad that the hotel can be 
said to have been misrepresented to its guests by the booking agent.  So on the balance  of 
probabilities, I dont think I can safely conclude that there was a misrepresentation for which  
I can fairly hold HSBC liable.
The airline which was suspended by the civil aviation authority was South African  Express  
(SAE). That is not in dispute, but Mr C says that he was not flying  with that airline but with 
another, South African Airways (SAA).  He says the flight he was supposed to be on had a 
flight number beginning  with SA, which indicates an SAA flight. So the flight must  have been 
cancelled for some  other reason, and that is a breach of contract.
However, SAEs website  says that SAE is part of a group that also includes SAA,1 and an 
article by the Independent says that SAEs  flights have SAA flight  numbers.2 It has 
Ref: DRN44475843previously been  explained to Mr C by the travel agent that the flight he was booked  for was a 
codeshare flight,  meaning that two airlines  may sell tickets for the flight but only one of them 
actually flies it. Mr Cs flight was booked  with SAA, but it was operated by SAE, and so when 
SAE was suspended this flight was cancelled. I think  that is a plausible  explanation, and 
I dont think the travel  agent  could have foreseen or avoided  it.
I accept the travel agents explanation  of the steps it took to try to arrange  another  flight from 
the same  airport, and that this proved not to be possible.  So while I sympathise with Mr and 
Mrs C for what sounds like a very unsatisfactory  alternative  a long bus ride to another 
airport, followed by another flight  I cant  accept  that this was a breach  of contract by the 
travel agent.  (The fact that refreshments were not provided for free on the bus does not 
change my mind about that.)
It is not in dispute  that the travel  agents  tour guide told Mr C that he did not have to check in 
for his flight  home, and that this advice was wrong  because it only applied to group  tickets. 
But I do not accept  that the travel agent  never  told Mr C that he did have to check  in. I have 
seen the agents email  to Mr C, dated  31 May, in which it clearly sets out what  he had to do. 
It says he had to check in online 24 hours  before departure. By the time the tour guide  told 
him otherwise, it was less than 24 hours before the flight, so I cant  agree that the tour guide 
was entirely responsible for the stressful chain of events which ensued.  Mr C should have 
already checked  in by then. For that reason,  I think  the travel agents  offer of £100  for the 
guides error was fair. For the same reason, I dont think  there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the travel agent  or by the airline.
I therefore do not think that HSBC had to pay Mr C compensation  under  section  75.
my final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order  HSBC  UK Bank Plc to pay Mr C 
£100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
1 https://www.flysaa.com/about-us/partner-airlines/south-african-express
2 https://www.independent.co.uk/travel/news-and-advice/south-african-airways-airline-saa-
passengers-flights-cancelled-bankrupt-a9291771.html
Ref: DRN4447584