K822xComplaint
Miss C has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) unfairly provided her with an overdraft  on 
a Platinum packaged bank account instead  of a loan when she sought  to borrow  money  for a 
car.
Background
I attach my provisional decision of 25 February  2021, which  forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I was intending to uphold Miss Cs complaint and 
invited both parties to make any final comments ahead of my final decision. 
Following this, TSB didnt  provide anything further  for me to think  about or ask for any 
additional time to do so. Miss C didnt provide anything further for me to think about  either.  
My findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail  why I intended to uphold Miss Cs complaint  in my provisional 
decision. And, in the absence of anything further from either party,  I see no reason to 
change my conclusions.
So having  carefully considered everything, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint. 
Fair compensation  what  TSB needs to do to put things right for Miss  C
Having thought about everything, Im intending to issue  a final decision saying that it would 
be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of Miss Cs complaint for TSB to put things 
right by:
Rework Miss Cs overdraft balance to ensure that from November 2013 onwards 
all overdraft interest, usage fees,  charges  and Platinum  account fees* are 
removed. 
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made TSB should contact Miss C to arrange  a suitable repayment  plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Cs credit 
file, it should backdate  this to November 2013.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss C along  with 8% simple  interest  on the overpayments from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then TSB 
should remove any adverse information  from Miss Cs credit  file. 
Ref: DRN45455112* I am aware TSB has already agreed to refund the Platinum account packaged account 
fees. But it is unclear  whether it has already paid these fees back  to Miss C. If TSB has 
already paid any refund, it doesnt need to refund these fees again. And its calculation  of any 
loss Miss C has suffered  can and should  reflect the fact that the Platinum  fees have already 
been refunded.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this interest. TSB must give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Miss Cs complaint. TSB Bank  plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN45455113COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Miss C has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) unfairly provided her with an overdraft  on a 
Platinum packaged  bank account instead of a loan when she sought  to borrow money  for a car.
Background
In October 2010, TSB sold Miss C a Platinum packaged bank  account. Miss C says she was told to 
take a Platinum  account  and an overdraft after she went into branch to borrow money to buy a car 
and had an application for a loan declined. 
TSB partially upheld Miss Cs complaint  as it agreed  that she had no apparent use for the Platinum  
packaged bank account. It agreed to refund the Platinum  account  fees Miss C paid, plus interest, in 
effort to put things right. This is the standard method  of calculating any compensation  due in cases 
where it is agreed a consumer was mis-sold a packaged bank account.
But TSB either didnt address Miss Cs complaint about the borrowing on the overdraft,  or didnt  
uphold it. Either way TSB offer of compensation didnt  cover any of the overdraft  interest,  fees or 
charges added to her balance over the years. Miss C was dissatisfied with TSBs  offer of 
compensation. She thought that it didnt  address her primary concern about being  provided with an 
overdraft instead of a loan and was unhappy she still owed a significant amount on the overdraft. So 
she referred her complaint  to our service.
Miss Cs complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators who thought that TSB needed  to pay 
Miss C more  in compensation  to address the fact that shed used her overdraft to pay her Platinum 
account fees. TSB disagreed with our adjudicators  view and so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for review.    
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I dont know what Miss C what told at the time she was sold her Platinum account. Although I can see 
that she was an existing customer  and already had a current account  which she kept running 
alongside her Platinum account, at least in the initial stages and TSB does accept that she had no 
apparent need for a Platinum account. Ive seen that Miss C did withdraw £1,600.00 in cash from the 
account a few weeks after it was opened, which  does support her argument that she was looking for 
access to a cash lump sum in order to purchase a car. 
However, as debit card payments were also being made from the account and contributing to the 
increasing balance, I cant reasonably say Miss C was led to believe her overdraft would  operate  in 
the same way as a loan and what  she was paying in would clear  the balance.  I say this while 
especially mindful that Miss C hasnt said anything about when she led to believe  the balance would  
be cleared and she ought  to have noticed it was increasing rather than decreasing.  
That said, while I dont  have enough to say that Miss C was misled into believing  that her overdraft 
would operate in the same way as a loan, I do have  significant concerns over how TSB allowed the 
overdraft to be used. Ill explain why I think this is the case.  
TSB will be familiar with all the rules,  regulations and good  industry practice  we consider when 
looking at whether  a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying  overdraft  charges. 
So I dont consider  it necessary  to set all of this out in this provisional decision.
Ref: DRN45455114Having considered  everything  provided, I think TSB acted unfairly when it continued providing the 
overdraft from November  2013 onwards.  A cursory  look at the account  transactions shows that the 
account was only really being credited  with around £50 each month. So its unclear what  basis TSB 
had for concluding that this overdraft  was affordable for Miss C, or even how this payment of £50 
would be enough  to clear  the balance, on demand, or within a reasonable period of time. Indeed by 
November 2013, the interest,  overdraft  usage fees and packaged bank account  fees being added  
were more than the credits  going into the account. 
  
In these circumstances, it ought to have been apparent that Miss C was never going to be able repay  
the overdraft  and that the balance was increasing unsustainably.  So TSB should have stopped 
providing the overdraft on the same terms and treated  Miss C with forbearance  rather  than adding 
even more  interest, fees and charges on the overdraft. As TSB didnt react  to Miss Cs overdraft 
usage and instead continued  charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably  
towards her. 
Miss C ended up paying additional overdraft interest, fees and charges in circumstances when TSB 
ought reasonably to have recognised that her overdraft usage was unsustainable. So Im intending  to 
say that Miss C lost out because of what TSB did wrong and that it should  put things right.
Fair compensation   what Im intending to say TSB needs to do to put things right for Miss C
Having thought about everything,  Im intending to issue  a final decision saying that it would be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of Miss Cs complaint for TSB to put things right by:
Rework Miss Cs overdraft balance to ensure  that from November  2013 onwards all 
overdraft interest, usage fees, charges  and Platinum  account fees* are removed.  
AND
If an outstanding balance remains  on the overdraft  once these adjustments have  been 
made TSB should contact Miss C to arrange a suitable  repayment plan for this. If it 
considers it appropriate  to record negative information on Miss Cs credit file, it should  
backdate this to November 2013.
OR
If the effect of removing  all interest, fees and charges  results  in there no longer being an 
outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to 
Miss C along with 8% simple  interest on the overpayments from the date they were  
made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding  balance remains  after all 
adjustments have been made, then TSB should remove any adverse information  from 
Miss Cs credit file. 
* I am aware TSB has already agreed to refund the Platinum  account packaged account fees. But it is 
unclear whether it has already paid these fees back to Miss C. If TSB has already paid any refund, it 
doesnt need  to refund  these  fees again. And its calculation of any loss Miss C has suffered can and 
should reflect  the fact that the Platinum  fees have already been refunded.  
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires TSB to take off tax from this interest.  TSB must give Miss C a 
certificate showing  how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to uphold  Miss Cs complaint and tell TSB Bank plc to 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Ref: DRN45455115So unless the comments and evidence  I get by 11 March 2021 changes my mind, thats what Ill tell 
TSB to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4545511