K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Sesame Limited failed to warn her about the very real possibility of 
having to pay a substantially higher premium on her whole-of-life policy.   
She feels the policy was sold on the basis she wouldnt  be able to afford the premiums when 
she needed it most in her old age.  
background
In 2003, Mrs L was sold a reviewable whole of life policy  by Sesame with a £240,000 sum 
assured for £29 a month premium. 
Following the 2018  review  Mrs L received  a statement from the product  provider,  indicating  
the likely  monthly premiums she will need  to pay in future.  
The document showed her that by 2022, the current premium  was likely to double,  and by 
2028 it would double again. The premium  was likely  to continue to increase thereafter.   
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The documentation  provided in 2003  namely the product brochure, illustration and 
policy schedule  made clear the reviewable  nature  of the policy. Including the 
possibility of increased premiums to maintain  the sum assured. 
There was no requirement  for the business to show  whether or not the increases  
were likely to be significant or substantial. It didnt need to use such language. 
Following the 2013  and 2014 review Mrs L elected to increase her monthly premiums 
in order to maintain  the sum assured. But at the point of sale it wasnt  possible for the 
business to know  what charges might need  to be made in the future.   
Mrs L disagreed with the investigators findings and has asked for an ombudsmans  
decision. In summary  she said she doesnt  believe the information  provided to her at the 
point of sale was clear, fair and not misleading.  The business must  have  known that she 
wouldnt be able to afford the premiums after she retired but she wasnt told the policy would 
become unaffordable. She would have gone for a term assurance policy  if shed known. 
Shes likely to pass on her complaint to Watch Dog and the industry regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA).  She doesnt  understand why we think  she wasnt  mis-sold this high 
risk and volatile product.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN42360832On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mrs L has said Im not satisfied 
that the reviewable whole-of-life policy was mis-sold.  But before I explain further why this is 
the case, I think its important for me to note I very much recognise Mrs Ls strength of 
feeling about this matter.  
She has provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  she wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mrs L and the business, and reach what  I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
I note the complaint isnt about  the reviewable  nature  of the policy or that reviews that may 
lead to an increase  in premium. Mrs L is unhappy  that she wasnt warned about the real 
possibility of her having  to pay a substantially higher premium. 
Its still important to reiterate that the type of policy Mrs L is complaining about is known as a 
reviewable whole-of-life  insurance. Its not set up for a specific term, but is instead designed 
to pay out on death  whenever  it occurs. 
At the start of the policy, the amounts of the cover and monthly premium are based on 
assumptions about a number  of different factors, including the future cost of life cover and 
investment performance, that arent  known at the start. 
Plan illustrations can only give an indication of what the cost of premiums  are likely to be, 
they offer no guarantee as to the likely  cost of or increased cost of the premiums. In simple 
terms, each premium paid into the policy is split two ways. The first part is used to pay for 
the cost of cover in that month.  The remainder is invested into a fund or funds. The cost of 
the cover  is also not fixed and actually increases with age. 
This doesnt mean the policy is age discriminatory - it just takes account of the higher risk 
the insurer will have resulting from the insureds increased age. In this case the hope is that 
the investment  element will grow enough to fund the shortfall  when the policy reaches the 
point that the cost of cover becomes greater than the premium being  paid.  But again there 
are no guarantees.  
Policies are reviewed regularly to check how theyre performing against the original 
assumptions. But at each  review, the insurer also needs to make new assumptions about 
the cost of cover and investment performance in the future. Thats why its not always 
possible to predict future premium increases with any degree of accuracy.  So whilst her 
premiums might increase  to £1,000  a month  its not for certain  that they will.    
Once these calculations are completed, the insurer can determine whether the policy  has 
passed the review  - usually meaning  no changes  to cover or premium are required, or 
failed   usually  meaning the policyholders will be offered the choice of either paying a 
higher premium to maintain the same level of cover  or accepting  reduced cover for the same  
premium. This explains the slight increase on premiums in 2013 and 2014,  but these 
Ref: DRN42360833increases werent  a precedent for future increases, and Mrs L was never told that they were. 
So she ought  not to have  taken the previous premium increases as a sign of what  the level 
of any future  increases  might be.
Ive carefully considered  what Mrs L said she was (and wasnt)  told about the policy when it 
was arranged. But having considered everything  she and Sesame have said, I dont think  
her comments alone are enough for me to say the policy was mis-sold. I must take into 
account the explanatory literature that Sesame says she was given when the policy  started. 
This explains the premiums were  reviewable and were subject to increase. So on balance, 
Im satisfied the policy allowed the business to do what it was doing and that it didnt mislead  
Mrs L about how it would work. In other  words,  Im satisfied that she was made  aware that 
the policy was reviewable and that the premiums were likely to increase  to maintain the level 
of cover she wanted. 
 
On balance, the recommendation met Mrs Ls objective to leave money behind for her kids 
on death, and Im unable to say the recommendation  was wrong  or unsuitable,  just because 
the premiums were likely  to increase in order to maintain  the sum assured. 
I note Mrs L says she would have gone with a term assurance if shed known. But I dont 
think that wouldve  met her objective because theres no way of knowing when shes likely to 
die. A term policy was considered and correctly dismissed as an option because  it wouldnt 
pay out if Mrs L died outside the term of the policy.  
Ive a great deal of sympathy for Mrs L in light of the possible unaffordable premium 
increases. But that said, she still has the option to reduce  the sum assured and pay the 
same premium or increase the premium in order to maintain  a higher sum assured.  
I appreciate Mrs L will be unhappy  Ive reached  the same conclusion  as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what she wants to hear.  Whilst I appreciate her 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require  the business to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mrs L 
what she wants.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4236083