K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  about  the way Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) handled a claim 
made on their travel  insurance policy.
background
Towards the end of February 2018,  Mr and Mrs C were involved in a serious  car accident 
whilst abroad. Their adult  son was also in the car along with two friends.  Their  son was 
insured under his own travel insurance  policy.
Mr and Mrs C (along  with their son) were  taken to hospital. Mr C was discharged shortly 
after, but Mrs C was critically  ill and required urgent  medical attention.
Mr C contacted IPA on or around 9 March 2018  for assistance and to make  a claim on their 
travel insurance policy. IPA requested some documents from Mr C including a police report, 
witness statement and a fit to fly certificate. Mr C provided the available information on or 
around 13 / 14 March 2018. 
By this stage Mrs C had been discharged  from the hospital and they were  both staying in the 
self-catered apartment theyd staying in before  the car accident with their son. They werent 
repatriated back to the UK until 21 March 2018. 
Mr and Mrs C have raised a number of concerns about the way their claim was handled, 
including the lack of assistance and communication they received from IPA, the unnecessary 
delay organising flights back to the UK and repatriating them - and the way in which  IPA has 
handled the subsequent  complaint they made.
IPA partially upheld their complaint and apologised. It offered £450 to Mr and Mrs C by way 
of compensation.  Unhappy, Mr and Mrs C complained  to us.
Our adjudicator investigated their complaint and recommended  IPA to pay Mr and Mrs C 
£750, in total,  to reflect the trouble and upset theyd experienced  as a result  of what  IPA had 
done wrong. IPA and Mr and Mrs C disagree  with that recommendation. So this complaint 
has been passed to me to consider everything  afresh. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can see that Mr and Mrs C have been through a traumatic  and distressing 18 months and 
Mrs C, in particular, has suffered significant  injuries.  I hope  their overall health is improving 
and prognosis  is positive. 
IPA has a responsibility to handle claims  promptly  and fairly. 
IPA has already accepted that it did some  things wrong when handling  the claim including:
-taking too long to repatriate Mr and Mrs C back to the UK;
-not regularly  updating Mr C, as it shouldve. This resulted in him having to 
unnecessarily chase the assistance  team; and
Ref: DRN47585852-not communicating with Mr C as well as it shouldve done.
In addition to these things, Im also satisfied that IPA shouldve  made  earlier enquiries with 
Mr C as to whether Mrs C needed further  assistance  including medical  assistance.  
From its system notes  it was only on 17 March  2018, after Mr C had contacted it to discuss  
whether IPA was any further forward arranging their repatriation home  that it enquired 
whether there was anything it could do to make  them more  comfortable in the meantime. Its 
reflected that Mr C said Mrs Cs dressings were old and falling apart as shed had the same 
dressings for around three weeks. He also reported that they were  close  to running out of 
medication. It was only then that Mr C was told that by IPAs  representative  that they would 
look into making a house  call and that Mr C may wish to consider  an upgrade to bed and 
breakfast accommodation  (although the extra  cost wouldnt be covered under the policy). 
The day after its reflected  that IPA was unable to arrange a house call in the country Mr and 
Mrs C were in so they were advised to go back the hospital. When Mr C explained  that was 
too far away, it recommended a clinic close by and made an appointment for them.  
Mr C says that he and Mrs C (and their son) were all examined, and his wife was given 
medication and dressings  were reapplied. However, she had to go back  to the clinic the 
following day as her arm was swollen and painful  as the bandage had been applied  too 
tightly. Im not going to hold IPA responsible  for the care they received at the clinic but I am 
persuaded that IPA shouldve enquired earlier than 17 March 2018  whether there  was 
anything it could do to make them more comfortable. 
Looking at the overall impact this all had on Mr and Mrs C, I dont  think the amount of 
compensation offered by IPA fairly reflects the trouble and upset theyve experienced. 
Having looked  at what IPA did wrong  and the impact  this had on them, Im satisfied that 
£750 is a more reasonable amount.
Before I explain why, Id also like to explain that we dont have the power to punish  a 
business or seek absolute assurances  from IPA that itll handle similar claims better in 
future. But Ive considered the individual circumstances  of their claim and overall impact of 
what IPA did wrong  on Mr and Mrs C.
Im satisfied that:
-the delays  repatriating them back to the UK - and being abroad  longer than needed  - 
wouldve caused a substantial amount of upset and frustration  for Mr and Mrs C, 
particularly as Mrs C was recovering  from significant injuries  and Mr C was caring for 
her at the same time as having  to shop, cook,  and clean   whereas I accept its likely 
he wouldve received  some support if hed been back in his own home. Further, Im 
prepared to accept  that they both wouldve been  more settled and less apprehensive 
in their home. 
-This frustration, stress and upset wouldve been  exacerbated  somewhat by not 
receiving regular  updates from IPA and Mr C having to chase its representatives on a 
regular basis to find out what was going on. I accept, given what  was going on, 
theres an expectation that Mr C wouldve been  required  to spend some  time talking 
to IPA, but Im persuaded that because he was the one chasing, and having to wait 
to be put through to a representative, he was spending more  time than needed  on 
Ref: DRN47585853the phone   sometimes at his own expense. I accept this wouldve also put him to 
unnecessary inconvenience. 
-Had Mr and Mrs C been to the clinic sooner  to check their recovery,  have dressings 
replaced and to prescribe further medication,  this wouldve alleviated some  of their 
worry. Particularly as Mr C says, and I accept given the nature  of her injuries, Mrs C 
was weak and hadnt walked prior to being  discharged from hospital  and was still in a 
considerable amount of pain with broken  bones, cracked ribs, some vision loss, 
bruising and stitches. 
Mr and Mrs C also say the delay  in repatriating them back to the UK may have made 
Mrs Cs injuries  worse  as after shed returned home and was taken to hospital, she had to 
have her arm re-broken  and a permanent plate fitted  because the bone was setting in the 
wrong place. As a result, her arm and hand always feel cold.   
As Ive said above,  Im not going to hold IPA responsible for the standard of care or 
treatment they received  in the country  they were visiting  at the hospital or the clinic. 
Further, Ive not seen any medical evidence  to support that Mrs C needed further  treatment 
in the UK as a result of her repatriation being  delayed. Its just as likely that she wouldve 
needed this treatment because of the very nature  of the injuries she sustained  and / or as a 
result of surgery she had whilst  abroad.
Mr and Mrs C also say they ran businesses and the delay in repatriating  them  caused  loss of 
earnings and a backlog of emails. However, Im satisfied that even  if Mr and Mrs C had been  
repatriated back to the UK a few days earlier, given the extent  of Mrs Cs injuries - as 
described by Mr C - its likely, once home,  she wouldve  still needed further time to 
recuperate from her injuries and further treatment. And Mr C wouldve continued to care for 
her in the same way he describes in correspondence to us. So its likely that their 
businesses wouldve suffered somewhat, even if theyd been  repatriated sooner. 
Mr and Mrs C are also unhappy about other aspects of IPAs claim handling including  it:
-shouldve provided them  with assistance much  earlier particularly as the accident 
theyd been involved  in had been  reported in the media and their sons  wife had 
contacted IPA on 28 February  2018 to make  a claim under his travel  insurance 
policy; 
-shouldve paid for the treatment they received at the clinic on 18 and 19 March 2018;
-didnt arrange  hotel accommodation, leaving them  in a self-catering apartment,  which  
Mr C had to organise;  and 
-it took too long to agree to pay for the remainder of their stay.
However, I dont uphold these other complaints because:
-I dont think IPA acted unreasonably by not proactively contacting Mr and Mrs C after 
their sons  wife had contacted it to make a claim on his behalf, on a separate  travel  
insurance policy he had  or that it shouldve been alerted in some way by any 
reports in the media of the accident  and made  positive enquiries as to whether any of 
its policyholders  had been involved.
Ref: DRN47585854-Im satisfied  that IPA did contact  the clinic in an attempt to pay for the treatment Mr 
and Mrs C received but it wouldnt  accept payment  from it. So, I dont think IPA can 
reasonably be held responsible for that. I understand  Mr C paid the clinic and, if he 
hasnt already done so, hes free to contact IPA to ask it to reimburse him for those 
costs subject to the terms of the policy. 
-Looking at IPAs  system notes  it looks like Mr C didnt tell IPA that Mrs C was going 
to be discharged; he notified  IPA of her release from hospital  when he provided the 
documents it required around  13 / 14 March 2018.  By that time hed arranged  for 
them to stay longer  in self-catered accommodation. Im also satisfied IPA offered to 
pay the balance  of the accommodation  costs.
-Im not persuaded, in the circumstances of this complaint, that IPAs decision not to 
pay for and automatically upgrade Mr and Mrs Cs accommodation  was 
unreasonable. I havent seen  anything to suggest,  medically,  Mrs C required an 
upgrade or that the accommodation wasnt suitable for her and Mr C.
Mr and Mrs C also say they werent  told by IPAs  representatives  that their medical  claims 
ceased on return to the UK. However,  the policy confirms that medical  treatment in England  
isnt covered if privately funded or funded by the NHS. That sort of term is not uncommon as 
this type of insurance is intended to provide certain  cover whilst travelling, not ongoing 
medical assistance once repatriated  back to the UK. If Mr or Mrs C needs  medical  treatment 
for the injuries  they suffered going  forwards, they ought to be able to access  this through the 
NHS. And this shouldnt  cost them anything.
Mr and Mrs C are also unhappy about the way IPA dealt with their complaint about the way 
in which  their claim had been  handled. However, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity 
so we dont have the power to consider that complaint. 
putting things right
IPA should pay £750 to Mr and Mrs C as compensation  for trouble  and upset. 
If it has already paid them the sum of £450  it initially offered, it can deduct that amount from 
the payment Ive directed  it to make.
my final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint in part.
I direct  Inter Partner Assistance SA to put things right by doing what  Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 December  2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4758585