K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that MYJAR Limited gave him a loan that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr C was given a single loan by MYJAR. He borrowed £900 in November 2017 and agreed 
to repay  this in six monthly instalments. Mr C was unable to repay the loan as planned and a 
balance still remains outstanding.
Mr Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought  that the checks 
MYJAR had done  before  lending to Mr C had been proportionate. And since  those checks  
suggested that the repayments on the loan were affordable he didnt think MYJAR  had been 
wrong to lend to Mr C. So he didnt recommend that the complaint  should be upheld.
Mr C didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint hasnt  been  resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loan was offered.
MYJAR was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make  checks to see whether Mr C 
could afford  to pay back the loan before it lent to him. Those  checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr C was borrowing, and his lending  history,  but 
there was no set list of checks MYJAR had to do.
MYJAR has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr C. It asked him for details of 
his normal income. And it gathered details about Mr Cs normal expenditure, both by asking 
him for details and by using some industry  standard data about normal living  costs. MYJAR  
also checked Mr Cs credit file before agreeing  the loan. Ive seen the results  of that check 
and also a full copy of Mr Cs credit file that he sent to us. I dont think there was any 
information that MYJARs check  should have identified as causing additional concerns about 
Mr Cs finances.
The loan that was given to Mr C was repayable over a six month period. So the amount that 
Mr C needed to repay each month was smaller than if hed taken a normal payday loan. But 
of course he was committing to making  those repayments over a longer period.
Mr C told MYJAR  that he was earning around  £3,000 each month. And based  on what  he 
said about his expenditure, and the statistical  information MYJAR used, MYJAR calculated 
that Mr C had around £1,200 left over each  month  that he could use to repay his borrowing.  
This was the only loan that Mr C took from MYJAR. So considering  the early stage of its 
relationship with Mr C, and the disposable income it had calculated, I think it was reasonable 
for MYJAR  to base its affordability checks on the information Mr C provided.  And that 
information suggested that the repayments on the loan were affordable for him.
Ref: DRN40680712I appreciate that Mr C says his financial position was much  worse. And that he was 
borrowing each month to repay other  lenders and meet his normal living  costs.  But that 
wasnt something he told MYJAR when he asked for the loan. And I dont think  it was 
something that MYJAR would have discovered from what  I consider to be proportionate 
checks. The checks MYJAR did suggested  the loan was affordable, so I dont think MYJAR 
was wrong to lend to Mr C.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
MYJAR Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4068071