K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the amount  that hes been charged by Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited for items that he bought using his account.   
background
Mr S has a credit account with Shop Direct  that was opened in December 2016. He used it 
to buy two items on buy now  pay later terms. He bought a watch  in March  2017 for which 
he was charged £319.20  and he bought a phone  in November 2017 for which he was 
charged £295.99. He contacted Shop Direct  about  the terms of the offer for the first item and 
as a gesture of goodwill  it credited £50 to his account. He complained  to Shop Direct in 
February 2018 that the cashback  that he was expecting hadnt been credited to his account. 
He was told that the cashback would be credited to his account  but Shop Direct then said 
that that was incorrect. It apologised  for giving him incorrect information and sent him a 
cheque for £15. He wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that the 
prices of the items had been reduced by 20% because Mr S had used offer codes  and that 
he wouldnt  be eligible  for two forms of discount  on the same order.  He said that Mr S had 
misunderstood the terms of the offers and wasnt entitled to a further  20% discount along  
with the 20% discount already applied. He accepted that Mr S was misadvised in February  
2018 and that Shop Direct didnt deal with his complaint in a timely way. But he believed  that 
the £65 compensation that it had paid to him was a fair settlement in the circumstances.
Mr S has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says, in summary 
(and amongst other things), that:
his account  was on buy now - pay later terms for twelve  months and he was entitled  
to discounts and cashback;
he didnt enter offer codes for the two purchases;
Shop  Direct has a phone promotion with a £70 discount and £100 cashback on buy 
now pay later terms for twelve months;
relatives of his have  received discounts  and cashbacks on their accounts;
hes been trying to return the watch since  November 2017 because it was defective  
but Shop  Direct refused to accept it back;
hes ordered another phone on the account but hasnt received it  and hes made  a 
data subject access request to Shop  Direct but it cant provide him with the 
information that hes asked for;
at the very least hed like the £65 compensation credited to his account  and a refund 
of all of the interest on the account since November; and
hes in financial difficulty.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S is clearly  very frustrated by his dealings with Shop Direct. He initially  complained to 
Shop Direct and then to this service  about  the cashback that hadnt been  applied to his 
account and the incorrect information  that hed been  given  by Shop Direct. Hes now 
complained about other issues  but Im unable to consider those issues as part of this 
complaint. Thats because he must first complain to Shop Direct about those issues and then 
Ref: DRN40090062 if hes not satisfied with its response  he may be able to complain about those issues  to 
this service. So in this decision Im only dealing with Mr Ss complaint about the cashback 
and the incorrect  information that he was given. And Im not dealing  with his complaints 
about the watch being defective, the new phone  that hes ordered or his data subject access  
request. 
Mr S believes that his account offers  him buy now  pay later terms for twelve  months and 
that hes entitled to a 20% discount on the price of the items that hes bought and also to 
20% cashback. 
Shop Direct has provided evidence to show that, as at July 2018, Mr S had used his account  
to buy two items and that for each of those he entered  offer codes which  gave him a 
discount on the price  of the items. Its provided  copies of those  promotions   which clearly 
say that they cant be used  in conjunction with other offers. Mr S says that he didnt enter 
offer codes.  But, on the basis  of the detailed  information  that Shop Direct  has provided, I 
consider it to be more  likely than not that Mr S did enter offer codes for those purchases. 
And as a result of those offers the price  of the watch was reduced by 20% from £399.99 to 
£319.20 and that the price of the phone was reduced from £396.99  to £295.99.  
And because I consider  that Mr S had used those offer codes, I consider that he wasnt  
entitled to any other  offers  on those items. So Im not persuaded that he was entitled to any 
cashback on those  items.  Mr S has referred to the Shop Direct offers from which  his 
relatives have benefitted  and to the terms of an offer from Shop Direct for a phone.  But none 
of that shows that Mr S was entitled to cashback  on the items that hed bought.
Shop Direct accepts  that it gave incorrect information to Mr S about the cashback being 
credited to his account in February 2018.  Its apologised  for that. It had credited £50 to 
Mr Ss account in May 2017 and it sent him a cheque for £15 in July 2018  (and it says that 
the cheque was cashed in August 2018).  I consider that the £65 compensation that Mr S has 
received from Shop  Direct  is fair and reasonable in these circumstances. And Im not 
persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require Shop Direct to credit any 
cashback to Mr Ss account,  to pay him any other compensation  or to take any other action 
in response to his complaint.
Mr S says that hes now suffering financial difficulties. Shop Direct is required to respond to 
any financial  difficulties that Mr S is suffering both positively and sympathetically. So, if he is 
suffering financial  difficulties, I suggest  that he contacts Shop Direct  to talk with it about 
those difficulties.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4009006