K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited (Red Sands) 
declined a claim under her pet insurance for her dogs  treatment.
background
Ms Ds complaint is about an Animal Friends policy  and so Ill refer to Animal Friends  
throughout this decision. But the policy is underwritten by Red Sands and theyre  the 
responsible business for the complaint. 
Ms Ds dog became  ill at the start of October 2018.  He developed a lump  on his face,  which 
swelled rapidly  and seriously affected  his sight.  Ms D took her dog to the vet as an 
emergency on 6th October. The vet prescribed some antibiotics. 
The vet examined  Ms Ds dog again on 12th October  and noted an improvement in the facial 
swelling. The vet said hed see the dog the following week to explore his mouth  and lance an 
abscess. 
On 16th October the vet noted  that the swelling  had all gone down. He removed two teeth 
and scaled and polished the other teeth. He also advised that the dogs medication should 
continue.
Ms D submitted a claim to Animal Friends. Her dogs condition was described  as facial 
swelling/abscess and the treatment claimed for was antibiotics  and surgery.  The total cost 
of the treatment was £611.85. 
Animal Friends declined Ms Ds claim because  her policy excluded cover for any dental or 
gum treatment. 
Ms D complained to Animal  Friends. Her vet wrote  to say the dogs treatment should be 
covered by Ms Ds policy. He said the dogs condition was facial swelling  and the damage to 
one of the dogs teeth  was likely  a consequence of the abscess/swelling. 
Animal Friends told Ms D theyd  reviewed  all the evidence but were  still going to decline her 
claim. They said the medical  notes showed that Ms Ds vet suspected  the root cause of the 
facial swelling was a tooth  rot abscess, and on 16th October two teeth had been removed 
due to disease.
Our investigator looked into Ms Ds complaint. She said she was persuaded that Ms Ds 
claim related to dental/ gum treatment. So she thought Animal Friends was entitled to 
decline the claim.
Ms D disagrees with our investigator. Shes  referred  to the letter  her vet wrote,  and also says 
Animal Friends cant prove  the cause was dental.  Shes asked for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN40459152Ms Ds policy  excludes cover for any dental or gum treatment. So the key point I need to 
look at is whether Animal Friends should  have  decided  on that basis not to meet any of the 
treatment costs for Ms Ds dog.  
Ive looked first at the notes Ms Ds vet made  at the time he treated her dog. On 6th October,  
the vet wrote  that there  was marked  swelling  to the right side of the dogs face. His notes 
said 'suspect tooth root abscess.  and listed the antibiotics that he was prescribing.    
On 12th October,  the vets notes  said there  was a marked  improvement  in the facial  
swelling. He wrote that he would book  an appointment to explore mouth next week and 
lance/flush abscess (peg root etc).
On 16th October,  the vet noted the swelling had all gone down. He wrote that hed removed 
two diseased teeth  and scaled and polished the other teeth. He also noted that hed advised 
continuing with the medication.
So it seems  the vet thought on 6th October  there  was a dental problem and ten days  later he 
removed two diseased  teeth. On the basis of that evidence,  I think it was reasonable for 
Animal Friends to decline Ms Ds initial claim on the grounds that it related to dental  
treatment. 
But Ms Ds vet then provided further  information to Animal  Friends.  He said the treatment 
should be covered  by Ms Ds policy. He wrote:
[Ms Ds dog] presented to me as an emergency on the 06/10/2018 with a large 
facial swelling encompassing the entire side of his face and eye. A course of 
antibiotics significantly reduced the swelling but we performed the surgical 
exploration and lance to ensure there was no chance of recurrence. While performing 
the surgical exploration it became apparent that one of [the dogs] teeth was 
damaged, likely as a consequence of the abscess/ swelling. [Ms D] is NOT claiming 
any money back from her insurance  policy with you for any dental  work.
At that point, Animal Friends referred  the case to their own consultant vet. The notes  in her 
report included the following:
 
The teeth weren't  damaged by the infection as in the notes,  there's clear  notes 
stating pathology  with them and recommending extraction in the run up to the dental 
issues.No other cause for facial swelling like that was found.The symptoms are 
consistent with a dental abscess, the teeth were  infected prior to the abscess  and 
removal had been  advised, the problem cleared up.
 
Ive considered carefully both of these statements, alongside the original treatment notes 
made by Ms Ds vet. Ive taken account of the fact that it was Ms Ds vet who saw and 
treated the dog. The vet consulted by Animal Friends  has only been  able to review the 
treatment notes.
Ive given particular  weight to the notes Ms Ds vet made at the time. And, as Ive already 
said, those notes suggest the vet thought  from the first visit that the problem was dental. 
On the third visit, he removed two diseased teeth. Although his later letter  said the damage 
to the teeth was likely a consequence of the facial swelling, he didnt suggest any 
alternatives for the original cause of the swelling. And, in the opinion of the vet consulted by 
Animal Friends, the symptoms of Ms Ds dog were consistent with a dental abscess.
Ref: DRN40459153Ms D has said it cant be proved conclusively that it was a dental  problem, so Animal Friends  
should compromise and pay part of her claim.  But my role is to look at whether Animal 
Friends made a fair and reasonable  decision based on the evidence  available to them. 
And based on what Ive seen, I think they did. 
The vet consulted by Animal Friends concluded  it was most likely a dental problem and her 
findings werent inconsistent with the notes Ms Ds vet made  at the time.  So I think  it was 
reasonable for Animal Friends to decide the treatment was dental, and decline the claim.
   
Id like to reassure Ms D that Ive looked carefully  at everything shes said. I understand she 
feels strongly about whats happened  and that its been a distressing time for her. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Ms D was hoping for, but I think Animal Friends made a 
fair and reasonable decision,  which theyve explained  clearly to Ms D. I wont  therefore be 
asking them to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint 
against Red Sands Insurance  Company (Europe) Limited.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4045915