K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains about a claim under an insurance policy  that covered her laptop. As the 
underwriter of the policy, London  General Insurance Company Limited is responsible  for the 
complaint.
background
Mrs Hs laptop stopped working. She contacted the shop where she purchased it to arrange  
for the laptop  to be inspected. She expected the laptop to be replaced, or for it to be repaired 
using branded parts from the laptop manufacturer.
London General  offered to repair the laptop but said it would not use branded parts  from the 
laptop manufacturer. However, it explained that the parts were  produced  by the original 
suppliers the laptop manufacturer  used.
Mrs H was unhappy with this, because her understanding from speaking to the laptop  
manufacturer was that it wouldnt in future do any repairs on the laptop  as a result  of the 
repair London General carried out. But, because she needed the laptop back, she eventually  
allowed the repairs to go ahead.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. She didnt think that the policy  was clear  about the 
type of parts  that would  be used  when repairing the laptop. And that, if Mrs H had 
understood this, she wouldnt have bought the policy.  So, our adjudicator  recommended that 
the laptop be replaced, or the new parts be replaced  with branded  parts from the laptop 
manufacturer.
London General  was unhappy with this, so Ive been asked to make a decision. London 
General said our adjudicators findings were  not consistent with other  decisions weve issued 
in similar  cases. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I wasnt planning to uphold  the complaint. I 
thought that London  General  had settled the claim in a fair and reasonable  way.
Mrs H replied to say she disagreed with my provisional decision, and made the following 
points:
She asked if she should  make  a complaint to the retailer about the sale of the policy.
When trying to get her laptop  repaired, Mrs H was at times unsure if she was 
speaking to the retailer or the insurer. 
She feels it should have been  clearly stated in the policy  that the laptop 
manufacturers branded parts may not be used,  and questioned  London Generals 
assertion that the parts used are the same quality.
The laptop manufacturer  told her it would not do repairs  on a laptop if non-branded 
(or unauthorised) parts had been used. 
In future she would only choose  to use repairers that are authorised by the laptop 
manufacturer. 
The delay in the laptop being received by London General isnt something she wants 
to pursue, as there are more  important issues here.  
London General  had nothing further to add. 
Ref: DRN45696052my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint   including the responses  to my 
provisional decision. Having done  so, Im not planning to uphold this complaint. Ill explain 
why  which remains in line with what I said in my provisional decision.
London General  did not sell the policy to Mrs H. So, it isnt responsible for how it was sold.  
If Mrs H is unhappy with the information she received  at the point of sale,  she can take that 
up with the retailer  which sold her the policy. It is up to her whether or not she makes  such 
a complaint.
I appreciate there was some confusion about  who she was dealing with when trying to get 
the laptop repaired. But I dont think this has any bearing on whether or not I should  uphold 
this complaint.
In making my decision, Ive looked at what cover is provided by the policy and whether or 
not London General has settled the claim in line with this  in a fair and reasonable way. 
The policy covers accidental damage to the laptop.  Where accidental damage occurs,  the 
policy says that London  General will repair the laptop and would only replace it if repair 
wasnt economical. It does not state that the laptop manufacturers branded parts  would be 
used. 
London General  has repaired the laptop.  So, the question is whether or not it is fair and 
reasonable that it has done so using parts  that arent from the laptop  manufacturer.  As 
mentioned above,  the policy document does not commit London General to use such 
parts. So, theres  no contractual obligation  for it to do so.
London General  has said that the parts used are from the same component maker used 
by the laptop manufacturer. So, in practical  terms, the parts would be no different and of 
the same  quality. I have  no reason to doubt what London and General has said about  this. 
And, although Mrs H has reservations about the parts,  Ive seen no persuasive evidence  
to suggest the parts  are of an unreasonably low quality. 
Mrs H is concerned that in future the manufacturer  or its authorised repairers wouldnt 
repair the laptop  as its parts have  not been  used in a previous repair.  I appreciate this is 
what she has been told. But weve seen other cases where  this manufacturer or its 
authorised repairers  have  provided a repair service  after an unauthorised repairer has 
done a repair including  replacing parts. So, Im not persuaded that what  Mrs H was told is 
accurate or has any bearing on whether London General has settled the claim in a fair and 
reasonable way.
Overall, I think London Generals settlement  of the claim has been  fair and reasonable. Its 
settled the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the insurance policy that Mrs H 
purchased  by repairing the laptop.  I appreciate Mrs Hs concern about the parts  used 
and the impact this may have should  she need  to have the laptop  repaired again in future. 
But, while I appreciate  that shell be disappointed with this, Im not persuaded that I should 
uphold her complaint.  
Ref: DRN45696053my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4569605