K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that AIB Group (UK) Plc T/A First Trust  Bank  (First  Trust)  wont  reimburse  
him for an online transfer he made  after he fell victim to a scam.
background
Mr M says that in February  2019 he responded to an advertisement via a social media site 
for an individual selling  a camera lens. Mr M says that he went into Newry  branch  to transfer 
funds online  to pay for the lens, as he wasnt sure how to do the transfer and wanted 
assistance in making  it. On 20 February 2019 Mr M transferred £515.00  in payment for the 
lens.
Mr M never received the camera lens and contacted First Trust to let them  know that he had 
been the victim of a scam. Mr M asked First Trust to get the funds back for him.
First Trust say they got in touch with the receiving  bank  but were  unable to get any funds 
back for Mr M, as they had left the recipients  account. 
Mr M raised  a complaint with First Trust, saying that if the staff member  in the branch had let 
him know that it wasnt safe to pay for the goods  with a funds transfer or told him about the 
danger of fraud  he wouldnt have made  the payment. Mr M asked First Trust to refund him 
for the payment of £515.00.
First Trust investigated and decided  not to refund the payment, saying:
they were acting on Mr Ms payment instruction
there was no discussion of specific details of the transaction regarding what  
Mr M was purchasing, so they werent aware that he was potentially the victim 
of a scam 
Mr M is a regular  user of the online/mobile banking facility  so should be 
accustomed to the various  security  alerts which are shown within  the screens
Mr M didnt  agree with First Trusts decision and asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt  uphold  it. They  didnt feel First Trust 
shouldve taken any further steps  prior to helping  Mr M making  the payment, and that First 
Trust had done  what they could to try and recover Mr Ms money once they were aware of 
the scam.   
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion, so the case  was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As part of this Im required to take into 
account relevant:  law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards;  codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
Ref: DRN49204082In broad terms, the starting position is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises  it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services  
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  
But that is not the end of the story:  
the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty)
regulated firms  like First Trust are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6). 
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice,  which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available. 
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
So, taking all of this into account, in this case I need  to decide whether First Trust acted fairly 
and reasonably in its dealings  with Mr M when he made the transfer of £515.00 in branch, or 
whether it should  have  done more than it did.
should First Trust done  more to prevent the payment
Mr M feels that First Trust shouldve  let him know that it wasnt  safe to pay for the goods with 
a funds transfer or told him about the danger of fraud. He says that if theyd  done  this, he 
wouldnt have made the payment. 
But I wouldnt expect First Trust to question every  payment that Mr M makes,  as this 
wouldnt be practical. But I have  thought  about  whether this was a situation where the 
payment was so out of character that First Trust shouldve  asked  more  questions before 
assisting Mr M to make the payment. 
First Trust says that this wasnt the first online transfer that theyd helped Mr M make. Ive  
reviewed Mr Ms account statements, and while the statements only cover  a limited period of 
time, I can see that only a few weeks prior to this payment Mr M had made two other online 
transfers.
Ref: DRN49204083The payment in bold is the payment Mr M is requesting to be refunded.
Date Time Place/location Type of transaction Amount
9.1.2019 *ONL TRIPOD Online transfer £200.00
29.1.2019 *ONL FTB VISA C Online transfer £316.70
20.2.2019 *MOB NIKON - In 
Newry branchOnline transfer £515.00
While the two prior payments were for less than the disputed transaction, they werent  
significantly smaller,  and they made using the same payment method. So, based on what 
Ive seen I cant fairly say that there was anything about the payment of £515.00 that made it 
so unusual or out of character compared to Mr Ms previous account use, that I wouldve 
expected it to flag First Trusts attention. Because of that I wouldnt have expected First Trust 
to question Mr M about the purpose  of the transaction or have a more  involved discussion in 
the way Mr M thinks they shouldve.
Ive also thought about the fact the transaction was in branch and whether the branch staff 
ought to have used the opportunity  to ask general  questions about the transactions in any 
event. And I think even if it had asked  Mr M questions  or offered a warning about the 
potential risks of buying items online,  Im not persuaded Mr M wouldnt have gone ahead  
with the payment. As Ive said Mr M has made  similar payments in the past and not had any 
problems when doing so. And I havent  seen anything to suggest he was suspicious about 
this payment at the time he made  it or had reason to believe the goods wouldnt  be sent to 
him. Also its likely a different payment method  may not have been accepted by the seller 
either. While  I appreciate that later Mr M did become suspicious of the seller, based on 
everything Im not persuaded Mr M would have done anything  different or not gone ahead 
with the payment even if warned about  the potential of online scams. 
But I have thought about whether First Trust couldve done more  to try and retrieve the funds 
for Mr M, once they became aware he had been  the victim of a scam.
could First Trust have retrieved the funds
There is some disagreement about when Mr M contacted First Trust to let them know  he had 
been the victim of a scam. He says he contacted them on 23 February 2019, however First 
Trust say it was a few days later. But regardless,  the evidence Ive seen shows that Mr Ms 
fund had been removed from the recipients account on 22 February. So, First Trust wouldnt 
have been able to retrieve the funds even if they had got in touch with the receiving bank on 
the 23 February. From what  Ive seen First Trust have tried to retrieve the funds for Mr M but 
there were no funds remaining in the recipients account, therefore I cant  fairly ask them to 
reimburse Mr M.
Im sorry  that Mr M has been the victim of a scam but from what  Ive seen, I cant  fairly ask 
First Trust to reimburse Mr M for his payment.
Ref: DRN49204084my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4920408