K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them a packaged bank 
account, called the Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in 2008.  They  paid a 
monthly fee for the account and received several  benefits in return. They  think  that Bank of 
Scotland should refund them all the fees they paid, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and didnt  think 
that Bank  of Scotland had mis-sold  the URCA to them. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with adjudicators findings  and asked for an ombudsman to review 
their case.  So it has come  to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me decide what to do about Mr and Mrs Cs case.  Ive 
looked into everything that Mr and Mrs C and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about  
the complaint  and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs C had banked with Bank of Scotland for quite a long time before it sold them the 
URCA. They had previously held fee-free accounts,  and its now over ten years since  they 
bought the URCA. So, not surprisingly  after so much time has passed,  neither party  has 
been able to tell us exactly how Bank of Scotland came to sell the account  to Mr and Mrs C. 
However, they both seem  to accept that they discussed the account  together  and that Mr 
and Mrs C took it after the discussion. 
Mr and Mrs C have told us that Bank  of Scotland recommended  the URCA to them.  During 
the initial stages  of our investigation, Bank  of Scotland also said it had recommended the 
URCA to them, but it later said it had sold the account on a non-advised  basis. With this 
conflicting information, I cant tell for sure exactly what happened.  But if Bank of Scotland  did 
recommend the URCA to Mr and Mrs C, it would  have had to check  that the account  was 
right for their circumstances,  and tell them about its features fairly and clearly so they could 
decide if they wanted it. So, in fairness to Mr and Mrs C, I have considered the case on the 
basis that Bank of Scotland did recommend the URCA to them.
Prior to taking the URCA, Mr and Mrs C had regularly overdrawn their previous account by a 
significant amount.  Bank of Scotland had agreed they could do this in return  for the 
appropriate fees and interest. 
The heart of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is that they say that Bank of Scotland  made them  feel 
that if they didnt  take the URCA, it might cancel  the agreement about  their overdraft and 
they would  have to pay it back in full. Theyve  told us they wouldnt have been able to afford 
this and that Bank of Scotlands  put them under extreme and undue pressure to take the 
URCA. Theyve said they felt obliged to take its offer.
Ref: DRN44145102Bank of Scotland has denied putting  Mr and Mrs C under pressure. It says it gave them a fair 
choice. 
Obviously, I wasnt present during Bank  of Scotlands discussion with Mr and Mrs C, and I 
cant tell for sure what it said to them. But they had been using their overdraft with their 
previous account  for several years and I havent  seen  anything to convince  me that Bank  of 
Scotland was about to change things  for them significantly without  their agreement.  
Mr and Mrs C have quoted from Bank  of Scotlands terms and conditions which they say 
show that it had the right to end their overdraft  agreement. I agree that it may well have had 
this right in certain  circumstances,  but I dont think it threatened to apply it to Mr and Mrs C. 
I accept that Bank of Scotland may well have encouraged  Mr and Mrs C to switch to the 
URCA, but this isnt the same  as putting  them under pressure. I think its more  likely that 
Bank of Scotland gave them a choice  after the discussion.
At the time that Bank of Scotland  sold the URCA to Mr and Mrs C, amongst other things, the 
account provided travel insurance, car breakdown  cover,  mobile phone  cover and home  
emergency insurance. Mr and Mrs C have told us that they already had some of these  
benefits and so didnt want or need  them from their bank. However, the URCA came as a 
package and couldnt be tailored for precise individual needs.  And Bank of Scotland  has 
shown that over time Mr and Mrs C registered  for some of the benefits and attempted to use 
others. So Im satisfied that they had a potential need for at least some  of the URCAs 
benefits and I think it was reasonable for Bank  of Scotland to recommend it to them. 
I accept that Bank of Scotland may not have told Mr and Mrs C everything about the 
account. But Im satisfied that it did tell them about the fees they would have to pay and the 
main things they would  get in return.  And as I think it was reasonable for Bank of Scotland  to 
recommend the URCA to Mr and Mrs C, I dont  think that more  information about it would 
have changed  their minds  about  taking it. 
I dont think Bank of Scotland mis-sold the URCA to Mr and Mrs C.
 
 my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about 
Bank of Scotland plc. I am not going to tell it to give them any money  back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2019. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4414510