K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that TSB Bank Plc mis-sold their mortgage  product and mis-led  
them, as it failed to tell them it would recalculate their monthly  mortgage  payment each  year. 
They say that they were  told by the mortgage  adviser that the monthly  payment  would  
remain the same until their fixed rate expired.
background
Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage with TSB in 2012. And, when the fixed rate expired in 
November 2017,  they took out a new fixed rate product.
Mr G had previously  complained to TSB on a number of occasions because TSB had 
recalculated the monthly payments each April as part of an "Annual Review"  process  despite  
him being on a fixed rate. He said that, when he took out the new product, the mortgage 
adviser confirmed to him that the payments would not increase during  the fixed  rate period. 
However, in May 2018 his account was debited for a higher  payment. He called and was told 
that this was due to the Annual  Review.
Mr G complained to TSB. And TSB said that it did feel there were some areas where it had 
made an error. It said, in summary:
Under the terms and conditions  of the mortgage, the monthly payment was recalculated 
each year on 31 March, using the balance outstanding and interest  rate at the time, but 
the term remaining  on 1 May. The new payment was due from 1 May until 30 April of the 
next year. This was otherwise known as the Annual Review;
Due to the fact the term used in the recalculation  was for May and not March, it caused 
the monthly payment to increase. This increase related purely to the capital and by 
making this payment  the balance reduced  at a faster rate and less interest  was charged 
as a result of this;
It appreciated that some customers were not happy that the monthly payment was 
recalculated when the interest rate was fixed for a set period. Under the circumstances, if 
the customer contacted the bank it was willing to adjust the payment back  to what  it was 
previously if appropriate. However,  as the Annual  Review formed  part of the terms and 
conditions it was correct to recalculate the monthly payment each year;
The mortgage adviser Mr G had spoken  to was not aware  of the Annual Review.  TSB 
also noted that there was no mention of the Annual  Review in the illustration or mortgage 
offer issued to Mr and Mrs G;
It had set the monthly payment  back  to what it was before  the recalculation on 31 March 
2018, and was able to refund the extra amount of £16.28  if they wished;
It had previously made Mr and Mrs G aware  of the Annual  Review in 2013,  2014, 2015 
and 2016. It had also confirmed that it was not possible  to remove customers  from the 
Annual Review. But it appreciated  that the incorrect information  from the mortgage  
adviser might have given them the impression the monthly  payment  would  not be 
recalculated each year. It therefore  arranged  for a payment of £75 to be credited  to their 
account in respect of the trouble and upset caused, and a further £25 for the delay in 
issuing its response.
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator didn't feel that TSB had carried out the review  fairly. She recommended  that 
TSB should either override its systems to take off the annual  review or allow Mr and Mrs G 
Ref: DRN41523162to redeem their mortgage and go elsewhere  without incurring an Early Repayment Charge 
(ERC). But she felt that the amount  of compensation Mr and Mrs G had been paid was fair 
and reasonable.
TSB didn't agree with our adjudicator's suggested  resolution and asked for the complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman. Mr G also didnt  agree with the adjudicator's view. He said 
in particular that the compensation  he has been paid was insufficient  to compensate him for 
the time he had spent  and the frustration  he had suffered.
my provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision on 9 April 2019.  I said, in summary:
TSB had said that the mortgage  interest was calculated on a daily basis but, because  it 
was an old style mortgage, it was subject to an Annual Review. In other words, it was 
saying that the Annual Review was an essential  part of the process for this type of 
mortgage. I was minded  to accept that this was the case. And so my provisional view 
was that TSB had not made an error  by carrying out the Annual Review;
TSB had previously noted that the Annual Review  wasnt  mentioned in the illustration or 
mortgage offer originally  issued  to Mr and Mrs G. And it had accepted  that they received 
incorrect information from the mortgage adviser  when they took out their new product  
which may have led them  to believe that the payment amount would not be recalculated  
during the fixed  period. TSB had already paid Mr and Mrs G £100 compensation for this 
issue but, having carefully considered  all the circumstances,  my provisional  view was 
that this was insufficient to compensate them for the trouble and upset they had suffered. 
I felt that an additional  £200  was fair and reasonable to compensate them for the mis-
information, and for their time and trouble.  
In his complaint,  Mr G had said that he would have been able to obtain  a lower interest 
rate if he hadnt opted for a fixed rate. But TSB had confirmed that, at the time,  its 
standard variable  rate was 3.99%  while Mr and Mrs Gs fixed rate was 1.64%. So my 
provisional view was that I didnt agree that Mr and Mrs G were  worse off by opting for 
the fixed rate. And this didnt change  my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G remains  unhappy with the conclusions I have reached. He says in particular that he is 
unhappy that TSB has carried  out the Annual  Review for 2019, and that I said in my decision 
that the recalculation is part of the terms and conditions, when he was told it wasnt. He is 
also unhappy that TSB has paid him the £200 before I have issued my final response.
Ive considered what Mr G has to say but, having  done so, Ive not been persuaded to 
change my decision. I understand that Mr G is particularly unhappy  that TSB has carried out 
the Annual Review for 2019. But, as set out in my provisional decision I am satisfied  that this 
is part of the terms  of his mortgage  even though it was not set out in the mortgage  illustration 
or offer letter. So Im not persuaded  that TSB has done anything wrong in carrying out the 
Annual Review. And, in any event,  I note that it has now refunded  the additional money 
taken due to the recalculation.
Ref: DRN41523163I also appreciate that Mr G is unhappy that TSB has paid him the £200  before I have issued 
my final response.  This is certainly  not usual process. It is open to Mr G to return  this 
amount if he decides  he doesnt wish to accept my decision.
As I havent  been  persuaded  to change my provisional decision  I confirm it here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. My order  would be to require  TSB Bank  Plc to 
pay Mr and Mrs G a further  £200 compensation, in addition to the £100 already paid. 
However, I note that it has already done so, so it doesnt need to make any further  payment 
if Mr and Mrs G accept this decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4152316