K820x#14complaint
Mr Es unhappy with the valuation of his car by AXA Insurance  Designated Activity Company, 
following a claim on his car insurance  policy. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 July 2019, setting out why I didnt 
intend to uphold this complaint. I invited both parties to make  any further submissions by 
8 August 2019  before I finalised matters.  
My provisional decision forms part of this final decision so is attached below. AXA didnt 
have anything further to add. But Mr E did. In short, he disagreed  with my provisional  
decision. He says the pre-existing damage to his car was only cosmetic as it wouldnt have  
passed the MOT test otherwise and AXA should repair  the damage from the accident. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive taken all of Mr Es comments on board. As Ive explained in my provisional decision AXA 
has the option to settle Mr Es claim by sending  him a payment. I understand Mr E is 
unhappy that AXA chose this option  and instead  he would like AXA to repair the damage  to 
his vehicle from the accident.  But having considered this, I cant say AXA acted 
unreasonably or unfairly in deciding to settle Mr Es claim  by sending him a payment as 
opposed to repairing his vehicle as it considered his car to be uneconomical to repair.
AXA estimated  the costs  of repairing the damage from the accident to be around £900. This 
didnt include the costs of repairing pre-existing damage. Its not unusual for an insurer  to 
decide a vehicle is uneconomical to repair once the repair costs reach around 60-70% of its 
pre-accident value. The repair cost to damage  from the accident to Mr Es vehicle was 
around 69% of the value of his car which was estimated to be around £1,300. 
I appreciate Mr E believes the pre-existing damage  was only cosmetic,  however Ive had a 
look at the engineers report and I think this shows there was more damage  to the car than I 
would usually expect  on one of its age. For example,  there needed to be repair  work carried 
out on the rear bumper.  Even if the pre-existing damage is cosmetic, Im satisfied it would 
affect the value  of the car. If Mr E wants to repair his car so he can continue using it, he can 
put the settlement towards the costs of repair. 
So taking everything into consideration, Ive no reason to depart  from the conclusions  I 
reached in my provisional decision. I think AXA acted fairly and reasonably and in line with 
the policys terms and conditions when deciding how to settle Mr Es car insurance  claim. 
Ref: DRN46460972my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN46460973Copy of Provisional Decision 
complaint
Mr Es unhappy with the valuation of his car by AXA Insurance Designated Activity  Company, following  a 
claim on his car insurance  policy. 
background
Mr E made a claim  on his car insurance  policy after his car was involved in an accident.  AXA decided 
the car was a write-off (known  as a total loss) and initially valued the car at around £1,300 before 
deducting £500 to cover  what  it said was pre-existing  damage. AXA offered Mr E £800 less £250 
excess with either  Mr E retaining the vehicle without a category N marker at no extra cost or AXA 
collecting the salvage.   
Mr Es unhappy that AXA chose to provide a cash settlement. He wants  the car repaired  instead or for 
it to be replaced  with a similar one. Mr E says he had spent money  on maintaining his car and it was 
in good mechanical order. He says he wouldnt be able to replace his car for the amount offered by 
AXA. In any event he wanted  to retain his car. He feels AXA has unfairly  left him without transport. 
Mr E wasnt happy with AXAs response so he brought his complaint  to us. One of our investigators 
considered his complaint but he didnt think it should  be upheld. He thought AXAs  settlement 
proposal was fair. Mr E didnt agree. He said he cant buy a replacement car at that price  and so the 
valuation isnt fair. As Mr E didnt agree, the complaint  has been passed to me. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I intend  to not uphold  Mr Es complaint. I understand 
this will come as a disappointment to him but Ill explain my reasons why.
Mr Es policy provides that if his car is damaged,  AXA has the option to settle his claim by sending 
him a payment. Mr E is unhappy that AXA chose this option instead of repairing  the damage. Having 
considered this, I think AXA acted fairly in deciding  to settle  Mr Es claim by sending him a payment 
as it considered his car to be uneconomical to repair.  I say this because  its not unusual  for an insurer 
to decide a vehicle is uneconomical to repair once the repair costs reach  around 60-70% of its pre-
accident value. In Mr Es circumstances, AXAs engineer has estimated the costs of repairing his 
vehicle to be around £900.  This didnt  include  the costs of repairing pre-existing damage which its 
engineer estimated to be around £2,000 to £2,500. So the cost of repairing Mr Es car was more than 
the value of his car which AXA estimated to be around £1,300. 
The terms  and conditions of Mr Es policy say if the car is lost or damaged the most  AXA will pay is 
the market value of the car at the time of the loss. 
Its not our role to value the car but to consider  whether the valuation the insurer has given is a fair 
and reasonable one. To do that, I consider in particular relevant trade guides used for valuing cars, as 
well as all the other evidence provided by both sides. We find the guides  persuasive as theyre  based 
on nationwide research  of likely sales prices.  The guides also take account of the cars  mileage and 
optional extras and give the retail market value of a car. So we think  they are generally more reliable 
than advertised prices which can vary widely  and tend to be a starting point to negotiate a price 
downward.
Ref: DRN46460974In this case, the valuations AXA did were using three different trade guides which ranged as follows: 
£1,095, £1,150 and £1,490. Weve checked one other different trade guide  as well as the ones AXA 
looked at - and this shows the value of the car being at £461  which is lower than the amount Mr E has 
been offered.  The other three guides are in line with what  AXA found. We usually disregard  a 
valuation if it is out of kilter with the rest, so in the case Ill disregard the valuation  of £461. So AXAs 
valuation of about £1,300  seems fair and reasonable as it is in line with these  valuations.  
However, the engineers total loss report identified several areas of damage to Mr Es car that wasnt 
caused by the incident. We dont think its fair for an insurer to deduct  the full cost to repair pre-existing 
damage from a valuation  on a second hand car. This is because its generally accepted that an older  
car will have  some signs of wear  and tear. 
The engineer estimated that the cost to repair  the pre-existing damages were  £2,000 to £2,500.  I 
think the pre-existing damage its engineer identified in its report  shows there  was more damage to the 
car than I would usually expect on one of its age. The condition of Mr Es car immediately before the 
loss will have  had an effect on its desirability to a potential buyer   and therefore its value. So AXA 
reduced the amount  by £500 which I think is fair and reasonable when considering the overall 
condition pre-accident. So I think the final valuation AXA offered Mr E of £800 is within  the range  of 
reasonable. I also think it is fair for AXA to deduct Mr Es excess  as his policy says he needs to pay 
this first as part of any claim he makes.
AXA said he can keep  the car, without  applying a deduction in the settlement for this. Thats  
reasonable as insurers are usually  entitled to deduct  a cars salvage value  if the owner wants to keep 
it. So if Mr E wants to repair it he can put the settlement towards the costs of repair. 
So, having taken everything into account,  I think AXA acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the 
policys terms and conditions.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not intend to uphold  Mr Es complaint against AXA Insurance  
Designated Activity Company for the reasons  I have  outlined above.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4646097