K820x#14complaint
Mr H makes a number  of complaints about Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax following 
a call he made to it about opening an account.
background
Mr H called Halifax about opening an account. He says the Halifax  staff member  was rude to 
him and disconnected  the call but Halifax can not trace the call, as his telephone number is 
ex-directory. Mr H says he has also spoken  to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) 
and has been  told capturing telephone numbers without consent  is against its rules. 
Mr H accepts that it is up to Halifax how it runs its business but says if its policies are 
contrary to ICO and Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  rules,  then it should pay him 
compensation. Mr H says that the only way to avoid this problem again would be for his 
telephone number to be no longer registered as ex-directory which  he is not prepared to do.
Halifax accepted  taking too long to respond  to Mr Hs complaint and apologised and paid 
him £75 compensation. It has also paid £15 for Mr Hs call costs to it. Halifax  says it cant  
search for a call from an ex-directory  number if the caller  doesnt have an account  or the 
name of the advisor the caller spoke to.
Mr H brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt  uphold  it. The investigator  did not 
think it was for this service to tell a business how it operates its business. He also thought 
that any data breach  should be directed to the ICO and that Halifaxs compensation offer 
was fair and reasonable.
Mr H doesnt accept  that view and says the compensation  he has been paid is nothing to do 
with the rules Halifax has breached. He says that if Halifax can not comply  with his request 
for the telephone call details to be traced then he should be awarded compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have come  to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise that Mr H will be disappointed by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly he feels about what he says has taken place. I also make  clear to 
Mr H that I have summarised his complaint in this decision but I have read all of his letters to 
us and to Halifax.
I appreciate that Mr H would like the call he made to Halifax  traced and I also appreciate that 
Halifax does not appear to be able to trace calls in circumstances  where the caller is not a 
Halifax customer and as in this case ex-directory.  I hope  that Halifax  will look at that issue  
going forward, but I cant fairly tell Halifax how it runs its business as we are not the regulator 
of banks and building  societies. I also think that if Mr H has concerns about  his personal 
information or thinks that Halifax has not complied with ICO rules then any complaint  should 
be made to the ICO. I also make  it clear that I do not think  that it follows that Mr H is entitled 
to compensation  just because Halifax can not trace the call or is unable to remove  any 
details about him it received during the call. I can not comment  on what Mr H says is 
Halifaxs breach of ICO rules about  capturing customers  numbers as I am only dealing  with 
his complaint. I think any wider more  general  concerns Mr H has, would have to be dealt  
with by either the ICO or the FCA.
Ref: DRN41908872There is no dispute that Halifax did not deal with Mr Hs complaint as it should have. I am 
however satisfied that Halifax has acted fairly  by apologising to Mr H for the delay in 
responding to his complaint and by paying  him what I think  is a fair and reasonable amount 
of compensation.  I think that award  fairly reflects the level of Mr Hs inconvenience  in making 
his complaint and for his call costs.
Overall I am satisfied that Halifax has dealt fairly with Mr Hs complaint  and I can not fairly  
ask it to do anything  further in the circumstances of this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  has paid a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation and I do not require it to do anything  further  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4190887