K820x#14complaint
Mr L says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by post in 2001. The policy  was taken  out at 
the same  time as Mr L applied for a credit card. It gave him accident, sickness  and 
unemployment protection. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr L disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Mr L ticked a box indicating that he wanted  PPI on the application form for his credit  
card. And the option to decline the cover  was set out with equal prominence. So Im 
satisfied Capital One made it clear to Mr L that PPI was optional  and he chose to 
take it.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L, so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for him. It was up to him to decide,  given the other ways he had to make his 
repayments if he wasnt working.
 
Its possible Capital One didnt give Mr L all the information about  the PPI that he 
needed before he made his decision.  But it seems  Mr L chose  to take out the policy 
and so appears to have  wanted this type of cover. He wasnt  affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively priced  and apparently 
affordable. Mr L was entitled to at least three months sick pay but the PPI would 
have paid out for up to 12 months if he was sick or had an accident.  So, given his 
circumstances and the policy terms, I think it unlikely  Mr L wouldve made a different 
decision if better information had been provided.  
It follows I dont think Mr L has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019 .
Ref: DRN49485822Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4948582