K820x#14complaint
Mrs P is unhappy the value of her with-profits fund with The Prudential  Assurance Company 
Limited dropped  suddenly  in the 24 hours after she elected to withdraw  funds. Mrs P says 
shes either being penalised  for making a withdrawal or the fund has been mismanaged.  
background
I issued my provisional decision on 25 September 2019. In it I explained that I was not 
minded to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint. I said that I appreciated Mrs P would be concerned to 
see that the projected value of her with-profits fund fell considerably  in a short  amount  of 
time, particularly as shed  decided  to make a large  withdrawal. 
But the way a with-profits provider, like Prudential, manages its with-profits funds is a matter 
of the providers commercial judgment, and the fall in value was the result  of the smoothing 
process used by Prudential, as a matter of its commercial discretion.
I also said I hadnt seen  sufficient evidence to show that the fall in value  came  about as a 
result of anything other than investment  performance and the legitimate use of Prudentials 
commercial judgement. And regardless, any failings in the management of the with-profits  
fund would be a matter for the regulator to consider. 
I then invited both parties  to comment on my provisional findings. 
Prudential had no further points to raise.  
Mrs P registered her dissatisfaction and maintained  that Prudential mis-managed  the fund, 
noting that since she brought her complaint the fund has not dropped  in value once. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs P was unhappy  with my provisional decision and thinks  that the fund 
has been mismanaged. And I understand shes said that her fund value has dropped since 
bringing her complaint. 
But shes  provided  no further evidence to suggest  that the previous fall in value of her with-
profits plan came about as a result  of anything other than investment  performance and the 
legitimate use of Prudentials commercial  judgment. And as I explained, Mrs P is free to 
bring her concerns  to the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, who has 
oversight of how with-profits funds are managed.  
So with no new merits based arguments  being made,  there is little more to say other  than 
my decision  remains as detailed in my provisional  decision, a copy of which is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. 
Ref: DRN46772022my final decision 
For the reasons  explained, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint and make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Jennifer Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN46772023my provisional decision
complaint
Mrs P is unhappy  the value of her with-profits fund with The Prudential  Assurance Company Limited 
dropped suddenly in the 24 hours after she elected to withdraw funds. Mrs P says shes either  being 
penalised for making a withdrawal or the fund has been mismanaged. 
background
Mrs P held a with-profits  fund with Prudential. Mrs P contacted  Prudential on 23 November 2018 and 
explained she wanted to withdraw £50,000 as a cash lump sum.
Prudential wrote  to Mrs P regarding her options for making the withdrawal on 26 November 2018. The 
letter provided  the current fund value and also said this figure  is not guaranteed  and can change  on a 
daily basis.
Mrs P called Prudential the next day, 27 November, to go ahead with the lump sum payment. During 
this call she was given a fund value  nearly  £5,000 less than she was told in Prudentials letter  from 
the day before. As Mrs P was unhappy with the sudden drop in value  she made a complaint.
Prudential investigated  the complaint and issued its final response  on 29 November 2018.
It explained that the fund Mrs P is invested in had experienced a negative  unit price adjustment (UPA) 
of 3.4%, and this is what caused  the drop in fund value.  It also explained  the fund had a smoothing 
process using  expected  growth rates (EGR), and when  required,  UPAs, to deliver a smooth 
investment journey. Whilst the EGR  is the long term view of the performance  they also need to make 
sure the performance  of the assets in the fund are performing as expected. And if theyre  not they 
have to make adjustments by way of the
UPA.
Prudential confirmed this was applied to the whole  fund,  and not specifically to Mrs Ps plan.
Mrs P then brought her complaint to this service and one of our investigators looked into her 
concerns. The investigator concluded that while she understood why Mrs P is unhappy, she didnt  
think Prudential has done anything  wrong  in the circumstances.  The investigator explained that 
Prudential was acting  in line with the terms and conditions of the fund and were  entitled to apply the 
negative UPA.
Mrs P didnt agree  and so the complaint  was passed to me for a decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I dont intend to uphold  this complaint.  
I can see how it will have been a concern  to Mrs P to see that the projected value of her with-profits 
fund fell considerably in a short amount of time, particularly as shed  decided to make a large 
withdrawal. But the way a with-profits provider, like Prudential, manages its with-profits funds is a 
matter of the providers commercial judgment, and the fall in value was the result  of the smoothing 
process used  by Prudential, as a matter of its commercial discretion.
As explained  in the terms and conditions provided to Mrs P when  she started her with-profits plan in 
early 2017:  
Returns from PruFunds are smoothed to reduce some  of the short-term volatility which  
investments can experience.  This means  that we adjust returns for some of the extreme  ups and 
downs of short-term investment performance, to provide a more stable return.
Ref: DRN46772024The Principle and Practices of Financial Management  document  (PPFM)  published on Prudentials 
website and available  here https://www.pru.co.uk/pdf/WPGB0031.pdf  explains how the smoothing 
process works. It states:
Like most stock  market  based investments,  the value  of the underlying funds  change daily, 
sometimes increasing and sometimes  decreasing. We use a smoothing process that aims to 
reduce the impact of these movements over the short term.  
The PruFund range  of funds has an established  smoothing process which  uses Expected Growth  
Rates, and where necessary, Unit Price Adjustments,  to deliver smoothed returns, and provide 
some protection from some  of the extreme short-term ups and downs of direct stock  market 
investment.
Presently, Ive not seen sufficient evidence  to show  that the fall in value has come about as a result of 
anything other  than investment performance and the legitimate use of Prudentials  commercial  
judgement. And regardless, any failings in the management  of the with-profits fund would be a matter 
for the regulator to consider. 
With-profits funds have historically attracted criticism for their complexity and perceived lack of 
transparency  it can be very difficult for policyholders  to understand often complex and lengthy 
documentation and to be satisfied that they are receiving their proper entitlement  under the terms and 
conditions of the particular  product. But those difficulties  do not necessarily  mean  that the provider  of 
the with-profits fund has done something wrong or is not acting in accordance with its regulatory 
obligations. 
The industry  regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) recognises  that with-profits providers 
have a considerable amount  of discretion  about how they operate  their with-profits  funds. That said, 
providers are accountable to the regulator  for the way in which they operate  their with-profits funds  (in 
accordance with their PPFM), and the FCA monitors the management of it. 
The regulators Principle 6 requires  that regulated firms must  pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. Furthermore, the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS), and 
COBS 20 in particular, contains specific rules and guidance for businesses on the operation of their 
with-profits funds. 
COBS 20.2.1  states:
With-profits business, by virtue of its nature and the extent of discretion applied by firms  in its 
operation, involves numerous potential conflicts of interest that might give rise to the unfair 
treatment of policyholders. 
And COBS 20.2.3 requires  firms to have  good  reason to believe that its pay-outs  on individual with-
profits policies are fair. 
Prudential publishes its PPFM document that sets out how it manages its with-profits funds  and its 
accountable to the FCA in doing this. Its required to appoint  a with-profits actuary and the FCA 
provides rules and guidance  on their duties. An independent with-profits committee  is also required   
its remit is to protect  the interests  of the with-profits  policyholders and to ensure that they are treated  
fairly. 
Prudential exercised  its commercial discretion  in setting the EGR  and applying the negative  UPA as 
part of smoothing process used in its with-profits funds. And this decision impacts not just Mrs P but 
all investors in the same with-profits fund. Mrs P can report this to the FCA if she thinks she or others 
havent been  treated fairly, however, I am not aware of it having any concerns about the operation of 
this fund.
Ref: DRN46772025Given my above findings,  Im not intending to ask Prudential to do anything else
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont intend to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint. 
Jennifer Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4677202