K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that an appointed representative  of Quilter Wealth  Limited
(trading as Intrinsic Wealth at the time) unsuitably advised him to transfer his personal 
pension into a self invested personal pension (SIPP)  scheme.
background
Mr H met with an appointed representative  of Quilter Wealth in May 2011  and signed the 
companys terms of business.  He met with the representative again in September 2012.  
Mr H had a Company A personal pension which had a transfer  value of around £60,000 after 
the exit penalty of around £7,000 was deducted.
The adviser carried out a fact find interview  to establish Mr Hs circumstances. He then 
recommended that Mr H transfer  his pension into a SIPP to provide him with flexibility over 
his investment options. 
Mr H completed  the SIPP  paperwork on 27 July 2012. In the section covering investments 
none of the boxes were selected. There was a box to select  investment  in commercial 
property, this wasnt selected. 
In August  2012,  the SIPP provider (Company B) requested  details of the proposed 
investments Mr H wanted to invest in and confirmation of his employment status. 
The appointed representative adviser responded on 29 August 2012,  and said:
Mr Hs (sic) would like to invest in shares in an unlisted company. He does not know  the 
exact details at this stage,  but has confirmed it is a trading company. Would this be 
acceptable?
Company B responded and said it would send Mr Hs SIPP application  for processing. It 
pointed out that Mr H could be charged for any work undertaken if his intended investments 
werent approved  ones.
On 3 September 2012, Company B confirmed to Mr H and to his adviser that the SIPP had 
been opened.
On 5 October 2012, Mr H signed an unquoted equity declaration. The document he signed  
said he wanted to make an investment of £55,000  in unlisted shares in Tessellations  Ltd; 
described as a business consulting firm. Around  £60,000 was transferred into the SIPP on 
the same  day.
The adviser produced  a suitability report on 15 October 2012.
The suitability report recorded that Mr H was in his late 40s, working as self-employed  
director of a haulage business,  and planned to retire  at 60. It also recorded  that he owned 
his own home and had three other  rental properties;  those  rental  properties  bringing in an 
income of £1950 per month.
The suitability report recorded that Mr H was in the process of trying to expand his business, 
and that he potentially wanted to purchase  his business premises  through  a SIPP. 
Ref: DRN45405932His attitude to risk was assessed as adventurous and it was recorded that if his investment 
failed it was so unimportant to him financially he could afford  to take the risk.
It said the following  about his existing personal pension:
 the [Company  A] plan had a transfer value of around £53,000, with the difference  
apparently being  linked  to pension term assurance;
 most  of the plan was invested in [Company  As] property fund, with a small sum 
invested in its fixed interest fund;  and
 the new plan would have to outperform the Company A plan by 2.1%  per annum to 
outweigh the transfer penalty and increased  charges.
A partly handwritten share certificate  was produced on 21 December  2012,  certifying  that the
SIPP was the registered holder of 110 shares in Tessellations Ltd.
On 9 January  2013, Company B wrote  to the adviser,  confirming that £55,000 had been sent 
to Tessellations Ltd. No further investments were made after that.
Mr H told this service  that he was made personally  bankrupt in 2010. Companies  House 
records show that he resigned directorship of his haulage company in February
2011. Companies House records also indicate  that ownership of the company passed to a 
new director. Mr H said the company was in financial  difficulty  at the time.  The haulage 
company was dissolved in 2015, after having a company  appointed  to liquidate it in 2014.
Mr H appointed a new adviser in April 2018. Through that adviser, Mr H complained to 
Quilter Wealth, and when  it didnt  uphold his complaint to this service.  He said that:
 he had suffered financial loss as a result of unsuitable advice;
 his capacity for loss had been low at the point the advice was provided;
 his circumstances,  capacity  for loss and attitude to risk had been assessed 
inadequately or not at all;
 the regulator required customers to be defined as sophisticated investors or high net 
worth investors to be suitable for a SIPP  and non-standard investment. He was 
neither of these  things. The adviser  had recommended the SIPP  and the investment.
Quilter Wealth  (then trading as Intrinsic Wealth)  responded  to the complaint in August 2018.  
It said the advice  had been  suitable  because Mr H wished to purchase his business  
premises through the SIPP.  It understood that no advice had been provided  by the adviser in 
relation to the share purchase, and suggested that the adviser was unaware of Mr Hs 
intention to purchase the shares. It pointed out that, based on the figures  available,  the plan 
had increased  in value.
Mr H complained to our service.
 
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Hs complaint  and recommended that Mr Hs complaint was 
upheld. The adjudicator obtained  further background information from Mr H regarding his 
investment in Tessellations  Ltd. He found this more credible. He didnt find the appointed  
representatives account of events accurate.
Mr Hs version  of events were:
Ref: DRN45405933ohe contacted  the adviser because he wanted to release money from his pension.  
He was unaware at that time that this would be unlawful; 
ohis enquiry was not connected  to his haulage business. The adviser  said that he 
could make arrangements that would allow him to release  money  from his 
pension; 
othe adviser told him about Tessellations  in advance;
othe adviser described Tessellations as a new company set up by a friend of the 
advisers, in which the adviser would also be investing. He said that the adviser  
told him there would  be significant short-term growth, and that he would be able 
to access his money in about  two years. Mr H never received any personal  
benefit from the investment; and 
oMr H doesnt recall  receiving the suitability  report.
Our adjudicator concluded that:
the adviser asked  Company B about potential investment  into unquoted shares in 
August 2012,  before  Tessellations  was incorporated; 
although it wasnt clear exactly when the Tessellations shares were promoted or 
recommended to Mr H, it seemed likely  that the transfer to the SIPP was likely 
recommended to facilitate the investment into Tessellations Ltd. Tessellations wasnt  
incorporated until 7 September 2012;
the decision to invest in Tessellations  Ltd was clearly made  before  the suitability 
report was produced. However, the suitability report still referred to Mr Hs intention 
to invest in his companys  business premises; 
there appeared to be links between Tessellations Ltd and the appointed 
representatives adviser. The adviser was a director of two companies based at the 
same address as Tessellations Ltd, including two companies appearing on the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys register, one an Independent Financial  Adviser.  Our 
adjudicator said it could be because they shared  an accountant,  also based at that 
address; 
the suitability  report was produced late and wasnt reliable. The adviser 
misrepresented Mr Hs intentions;
the advisers explanation provided to Intrinsic on 25 July 2018 was not reliable. 
Amongst other  things, it made no reference to the Tessellations investment, despite  
the fact that the adviser was clearly aware  of it; 
the recommendation to transfer was unsuitable. Mr H was not an experienced or 
sophisticated investor. Investing  almost all his pension in unlisted  shares  in a newly-
formed company was plainly unsuitable;
it seemed likely that the adviser  promoted  the investment  to Mr H; 
Tessellations shares are unlisted,  so realising their value would depend on finding a 
willing buyer, which seemed unlikely. More  likely  the shares are and have always  
been illiquid, and they therefore should be treated  as having no value for redress 
calculation purposes; and 
although Mr H transferred servicing to a new adviser in April 2018, the plan only held 
the shares and a residual cash sum,  so the new adviser wouldve been unable to 
mitigate Mr Hs financial  loss at that time.
Quilter Wealth  sent in a response from the particular  adviser dated January 2020. That said 
that: 
he didnt tell Mr H he had invested £50,000 in Tessellations Ltd or any other 
company;
Ref: DRN45405934he didnt have links with Tessellations Ltd;
as far as he could  recall the suitability letter reflected Mr Hs wishes;
Mr H gave the impression of being a successful company director  with buy to let 
investments. His personal situation  may have  changed over time if he had business  
difficulties.
As Quilter Wealth didnt accept our adjudicators view, Mr Hs case  comes  to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and considered the view 
given by our adjudicator, I have reached  the same conclusion and for largely the same  
reasons. I am upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ive summarised my additional comments below.
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened   based on whats available.
Like our adjudicator, I think the advisers  explanation of events is not credible  or plausible 
and that Mr Hs version of events  can more reasonably be relied on. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, in relation to the fact find, clearly  Mr Hs individual  circumstances were not as set out 
in the fact find or suitability report. He had been  made personally bankrupt in 2010, and was 
not a company owner or director. A brief search of Companies House records wouldve 
established this. It was clear from Mr Hs personal  circumstances that a 100% loss of his 
pension wouldnt have  had a minor  impact  on him or his family  (as recorded in the advisers 
notes) given his financial difficulties. He had approached the adviser hoping to access his 
pension because of these financial difficulties. It ought to have  been  clearly apparent that 
Mr H was neither a sophisticated investor, nor a high net worth  individual.  The fact find notes 
record that Mr H didnt  want  to disclose details of his income and expenditure, and was 
currently a basic tax rate payer. His pension pot was relatively  modest. Transfer to a SIPP to 
access more flexible  investment options was therefore not suitable  in Mr Hs circumstances.
Secondly, even  if I were  to accept that the adviser was in some way mistaken  as to Mr Hs 
original investment intentions (which  I dont accept),  it was very clear by the time the adviser 
issued his suitability  report  in October 2012, that Mr H planned to invest in unquoted  shares.  
I say this because  I have seen an email the adviser wrote  to Company B, the SIPP  provider, 
to check this was possible  in August 2012.  Mr H went on to complete an unquoted equity 
declaration form in early  September 2012, around the time Tessellations Ltd was 
incorporating. So, I think the adviser  wouldve known at the point of writing his report  in 
October 2012, that what he had written did not accurately record Mr Hs investment 
intentions. I note also Mr H says he cant recall receiving the suitability report. 
Thirdly, the adviser  told Quilted Wealth in July 2018, that he was unaware  of the investment 
in the shares.  Given the paper trail that exists, I dont find this at all credible. I also note that 
the email about  the shares from the adviser to the SIPP provider was missing from the 
business file sent by the business to this service.  
Given these apparent inconsistencies, I think Mr Hs account of his dealings with the adviser 
is far more credible.  I think the inaccuracies in the suitability report and fact find are unlikely 
to have arisen by mistake  or miscommunication. I say this taking into account that the 
Ref: DRN45405935company which  Mr H ended up investing  in was incorporated only in September 2012,  whilst 
the transfer to the SIPP was being arranged.  Also, noting that the business  address for that 
particular company was connected by address to the adviser.
Looked at overall, and taking  into consideration Mr Hs circumstances, I think the 
recommendation to transfer to the SIPP was unsuitable. I also think, for the reasons 
explained, the adviser probably went on to recommend that Mr H invest  in Tessellations Ltd 
an unquoted company.  I also consider  this to be unsuitable advice given Mr Hs personal 
circumstances and capacity for loss. I therefore  consider that Mr H has lost out because of 
what the appointed representative did wrong  and that Quilter Wealth should therefore 
compensate Mr H for his loss.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr H as close  as possible to 
the position he would probably  now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr H would have remained in his previous  plan, but potentially  invested differently. It 
is not possible to say precisely what  he would  have done, but I am satisfied that what  I have 
set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr H's circumstances and objectives when he 
invested.
What should Quilter Wealth do?
To compensate Mr H fairly Quilter Wealth should:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value,  no 
compensation is payable.
Quilter Wealth  should also pay any interest  set out below.
If there  is a loss, Quilter  Wealth  should  pay into Mr H's pension  plan, to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Quilter Wealth  shouldnt 
pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If Quilter  Wealth is unable to pay the compensation into Mr H's pension  plan,  Quilter  
Wealth should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the 
plan, it would have  provided a taxable  income. Therefore the compensation should 
be reduced to notionally allow for any income  tax that would  otherwise  have  been  
paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using  Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr H is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction  would  equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr H would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Ref: DRN45405936 In addition, Quilter Wealth should pay Mr H £300 for the distress  and inconvenience  
caused.
 Provide the details of the calculation to Mr H in a clear, simple format.
 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter Wealth consider that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  income  tax from that interest,  Quilter  Wealth should 
tell Mr H how much its taken off. Quilter Wealth should also give Mr H a tax deduction  
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate.
Investment name
status benchmark From
Start dateTo
End dateAdditional interest
Mr Hs SIPP still exists FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index date of 
transferdate of 
settlementnot applicable
Actual value
This means  the actual transfer  value of the SIPP  at the end date.
If, at the end date,  the Tessellations shares  are illiquid (meaning they cannot  be readily 
sold), it may be difficult to establish the actual value  of the SIPP.  So, the value  of the shares  
should be assumed  to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. Quilter Wealth should take 
ownership of the illiquid shares  by paying  a commercial value acceptable to the pension 
provider. This amount  should be deducted  from the compensation  and the balance paid as 
above.
If Quilter  Wealth is unable  to purchase the shares,  their value  should  be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. Quilter  Wealth  may wish to require that Mr H provides an 
undertaking to pay Quilter  Wealth any amount  he may receive from the investment in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. Quilter  Wealth will need to meet  any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the fund value (i.e. without any exit penalty or transfer  charge) of the 
Company A plan at date of transfer  to the SIPP would have been worth  at the end date had 
it grown in line with the benchmark.
From the transaction statement obtained it can be seen there  have been  no contributions to 
or drawings from the SIPP, therefore  no further sums need to be added  or deducted in the 
calculation.
SIPP Fees
Ref: DRN45405937The SIPP only exists because of the Tessellations  investment. In order for the SIPP  to be 
closed and further SIPP fees prevented, the shares need to be removed. But if Quilter  cant 
buy them  Mr H will be faced with future  SIPP fees. I think  it is fair to assume five years  of 
future SIPP fees. So, if Quilter cant buy the shares,  it should  pay a sum equal to five years 
of SIPP  fees based on the current tariff.  This is in addition to the compensation calculated 
using a nil value for the shares.
 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
 Mr H wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk.
 The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
 Although it is called an income  index, the mix and diversification provided  within  the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Hs circumstances and attitude  to risk.
Further information
Some examples of how the calculation should be carried out are available  on our website 
under Publications / Online Technical Resource / Investment / Calculating compensation 
in investment complaints.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and order Quilter  Wealth Ltd to 
pay him fair compensation as calculated above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4540593