K822xcomplaint
Miss L says that Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in March  2019, a copy of which is attached  and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Miss Ls complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Miss L or Capital One sent me anything further to consider.         
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions    
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons.
what the business needs  to do
Capital One has already  paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss L because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss L about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Miss L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
If it has already done this, I dont award any further compensation. 
Ref: DRN41850692my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint. 
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss L any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Its my understanding  that its already done this. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or reject 
my decision  before 15 June 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN41850693copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken  out in 2004. 
Miss L says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Initially Miss L told us that she was unemployed at the time of sale and our adjudicator upheld the 
complaint on that basis. But Capital One asked for additional evidence  that    Miss L was unemployed  
and Miss L responded to say that she was employed from 1999 until 2014. 
Ive now considered that Miss L was employed  at the time of sale.  Ive also made  some assumptions 
about Miss Ls circumstances,  such as her existing means of making  her repayments.  But Miss L now 
has an additional opportunity  to respond to my provisional decision if she feels that I havent fully 
considered her circumstances or she wishes  to provide more information.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Miss Ls case.
Im currently  not intending  to uphold this complaint  because:
Due to the time thats passed, a call recording is no longer available so I dont know what was 
discussed regarding the PPI.
But Ive then considered what we know more widely about how Capital  One sold PPI during 
this type of call around the time the policy was taken out. I havent seen evidence  that they 
didnt follow their normal  sales process during this sale and I think  that its more likely than not 
that Miss L was made aware that the PPI was optional     before she agreed to take it out.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss L so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have  to make sure Miss L got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible  the information Capital One gave Miss L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time, particularly what shes told 
us about her employment in her most recent correspondence, it looks like she was eligible for 
the PPI and it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover - so it would  have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the 
PPI was affordable. 
So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means  Capital  One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to     Miss L.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss L because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should  have told Miss L about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Miss L, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN41850694To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit  share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss L has said, but so far these  points dont  change my decision.
my provisional  decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital  One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss L.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss L any commission and profit share it got 
that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.  If it has already done this, 
I currently dont intend to award  any further compensation. 
If Miss L or Capital One (Europe) plc has anything further to add they should do so by 
28 April 2019 and Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4185069