K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund  a payment, debited from his current  
account, to an online  ticket resale website (the website).
background
In May 2018  Mr B wanted  three tickets for an event. He went to the website. He says he 
chose tickets listed at £83 per ticket,  but was charged £953 (£234 per ticket plus a booking 
fee, a shipping fee, and VAT). He called HSBC to ask it to cancel the payment.  
HSBC said it couldnt cancel the payment, but that it could dispute it. It later said it couldnt  
dispute the payment. Unhappy with this Mr B complained. HSBC responded to say there  
was nothing it could  do to help with Mr Bs dispute with the website. It accepted it could have 
given clearer information about this and offered  him £100 compensation. Mr B also 
complained to the website, but it didnt  agree  to refund him. 
Mr B brought a complaint  against HSBC to our service. The investigator didnt think the 
complaint should  be upheld.  This was because she didnt think HSBC  could  have cancelled  
the payment,  and because she didnt think it could have helped Mr B get a refund from the 
website. Mr B didnt agree  so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about HSBC, as Mr Bs current account provider. Its not about  the website, 
which isnt a financial services provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Im only 
considering whether Mr B authorised HSBC to debit  the account  with the value of the 
payment, whether it couldve helped with his dispute  with the website, and whether it 
couldve cancelled the payment.
relevant considerations
The regulations relevant  to this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. These 
explain that a payment  out of someones  account can only be authorised if the payer  (here,  
Mr B) has consented to it. The payment service  provider (here, HSBC) must also show  the 
payment was authenticated. But its not enough for the card issuer  to simply rely on the fact 
that the card and PIN, or the personalised set of procedures needed to initiate a payment, 
were used; that doesnt necessarily mean  that the payment was authorised  by the account  
holder.
Whether a payment has been authorised or not is important because, very broadly speaking,  
under both the Payment Services Regulations and the account terms and conditions the 
account holder  is liable for payments theyve authorised and the banks liable  for 
unauthorised payments.  
Ref: DRN42921432did Mr B authorise HSBC to debit  the account with the value of the payment?  
For the payment  to be authenticated card details needed to be entered. Mr B accepts he 
entered the details on his card, and the order went through,  so Im satisfied the payment was 
authenticated. 
Ive seen the steps someone needed  to follow to buy tickets  on the website in June 2018.  
The sales  process,  in brief,  was as follows:
-The buyer chooses the event  and date they want the tickets for.
-The buyer selects how many  tickets they want,  and then chooses the tickets  they 
want. The location (section  and row) and price per ticket are shown.  A summary  
pops up, and to continue, a buyer clicks Buy. 
-The buyer enters their personal  information. At the top left-hand side of the page,  the 
number of tickets selected and the price per ticket  are shown. It has a note below this 
which says Not Included:  Handling Fee, VAT and Booking Fee.
-The delivery method  is confirmed,  and at the top left-hand  side the number of tickets 
selected, the price  per ticket  and handling  fees per ticket are shown. It has a note 
below this which says Not Included: VAT and Booking Fee.
-The buyer selects the payment method, and at the top left-hand  side the number of 
tickets selected, the price  per ticket and handling fees per ticket are shown. It has a 
note below this which says Not Included:  VAT and Booking Fee.
-The buyer enters their payment details (name  on card, card number, expiry date and 
card security code).  At the top left-hand side the number  of tickets selected,  the price  
per ticket,  handling  fees per ticket, and VAT and booking fee per ticket  are shown. 
Also included  is the total price, in capitals and in bold.
-The buyer completes  the purchase. In the centre  of the screen the number of tickets 
selected, the price  per ticket,  handling fees per ticket, and VAT and booking  fee per 
ticket are shown. Also included is the total price,  in capitals  and in bold. The buyer 
then has to click, at the bottom  of the page, to complete the purchase.  
Mr B bought the tickets in late May 2018. So I think the process  Ive described above is most 
likely the process Mr B would have  followed.
The Advertising Standards Authority (ASA)  issued a ruling against the website last year. It 
said that the ad for the tickets (the start of the process where a buyer chooses the tickets 
they want)  didnt make clear the total ticket price including  the booking fee, and didnt make 
clear the applicable delivery  fee, so it concluded  that the ad was misleading. I can see why 
the ASA came to this conclusion.  But I dont  need  to comment  on the ad. Instead, I need  to 
consider the information available to Mr B when he chose to complete the purchase. 
Mr B argues  that he chose tickets listed at £83 each. He says this is how much was shown 
for each  ticket until the end of the process,  when the price increased  to £234 per ticket. Mr B 
has provided a screenshot of an £83 ticket  selection to support his case. This was taken two 
minutes before the booking confirmation email was sent. I accept this suggests he chose 
£83 tickets and something  further down the line changed. Mr B says when he realised  what  
Ref: DRN42921433had happened  he assumed hed get a refund so he ordered alternative tickets  through the 
website, but on this occasion he was more careful.  Ultimately though, Mr B accepts  the final 
price was shown before  he completed  the purchase. 
I can see why Mr B is disappointed with the website. But the fact is the final price  was 
available to him. And by choosing to proceed he consented to and authorised  the payment 
using his HSBC  debit card. It follows that I cant fairly and reasonably say HSBC wasnt 
entitled to debit the account on the basis the payment wasnt  authorised.
could HSBC help with the dispute with the website? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant,  as Mr B does  
here, HSBC  (as the card issuer) can attempt a chargeback. Generally we say its fair for a 
card issuer  to attempt a chargeback - or to challenge a payment  - if theres a reasonable 
prospect of success,  for example where goods  arent received or it appears  that the payment 
wasnt properly authorised by the cardholder.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features  to this one, where chargeback  has 
been successful.  But it doesnt necessarily follow that HSBC should  have attempted  one 
here. What  I need to decide is if, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I think it 
should have. But I dont think HSBC couldve challenged  the payment on the basis Mr B 
didnt properly authorise the payment or was charged the wrong amount, given the 
conclusions Ive already set out. 
And Mr B received the tickets. So I dont think HSBC could have challenged the payment  on 
the basis he didnt  get what he paid for either. 
I would add that Mr B paid using a debit card, rather a credit card. So HSBC  - to treat Mr B 
fairly - didnt need  to consider whether he had a valid claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  for misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of the 
website.
could HSBC have  cancelled the payment?
Generally speaking, once a payment has been  authenticated, consented to and authorised, 
it cant be cancelled. So I think HSBC was correct in telling Mr B that his payment to the 
website couldnt  be cancelled. As part of this discussion, however, Mr B was led to believe 
HSBC would dispute the payment with the website after it had debited his account. 
HSBC accepted it should have provided  clearer information about this. Having listened to the 
call, I agree it should have. If the information  had been clearer Mr B would still be in the 
position he is now - namely, without  a refund. But I think finding out a dispute wasnt  going  to 
be raised, when hed been  told one would be, would  have caused Mr B disappointment and 
frustration. Its only fair that HSBC  should make up for this. However, I consider £100 
compensation to fairly reflect the impact  this had on Mr B.
Ref: DRN42921434other
Mr B has said his financial situation  should also be taken into account in this case, because 
the payment took him overdrawn. When deciding whether Mr B should receive a refund from 
HSBC this isnt a consideration. However, if Mr B had been unable  to repay the overdrawn 
balance I would have  expected HSBC  to have treated him fairly, perhaps by agreeing a 
repayment plan.  Fortunately, although no doubt a strain on Mr B finances, the payment 
doesnt appear to have  led him to need assistance  from HSBC.
whats my conclusion?
I have a good deal of sympathy for Mr B. Its clear he feels strongly  that the website has 
acted poorly, and that hes lost out as a result. But as Ive said,  I cant  decide  a complaint 
about the website. I can only decide whether  I can fairly require HSBC to refund Mr B in the 
particular circumstances  of this complaint. 
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think Mr B authorised HSBC to debit  the account with the 
value of the transaction. I dont think it could  help with his dispute  with the website. And I 
dont think it could have  cancelled the payment. It follows that I dont think  I can fairly require 
HSBC to refund all or part of the payment. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4292143