K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about the mis-sale of two single premium payment protection  insurance 
policies (PPI) taken  out with two personal  loans. 
To be clear, this decision is about  Mrs Ss Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) loans  
taken out in January 2003 and October 2003.
background
Each time Mrs S borrowed  money  as above, Nationwide sold her a single premium PPI 
policy alongside the loan. The two PPI policies offered protection  against Mrs S losing her 
job or being unable to work.  
The policies cost £739 and £1478 respectively and Mrs S had to pay the full cost of the PPI 
up front  on each occasion.  She also borrowed the money to pay for the PPI premiums from 
Nationwide. 
Id like to place on record how sorry I am that its taken this long for Mrs Ss complaint to 
reach an ombudsman.  This was partly due to a legal issue  which  has affected cases like 
hers. I also understand the company representing  Mrs S in this matter  is no longer 
authorised. 
Nevertheless, one of our adjudicators did write to Mrs S some  time ago and recommended  
we shouldnt uphold  her mis-sale complaint.  Because  she disagreed  the case had been  
passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint about the mis-sale, but I think  she 
may be due back some  money for the commission Nationwide received.
These events obviously  took place a long time ago and so I can understand and 
sympathise how difficult it might be for Mrs S to remember exactly  what happened. I say 
this because she says she was never  aware she had asked for, or agreed to, the PPI. But 
Ive seen the two credit  agreements she signed for each loan. Both had the words Optional  
Credit Insurance directly above where the PPI costings were shown. And in my view this 
was in a prominent position  on each agreement.
My experience of these  types of loan is that they were first discussed  over the phone or in 
a branch setting,  with a credit agreement then given or sent out to the consumer based on 
that discussion. 
Overall, I think the credit  agreements are strong  items of evidence that on each  of the two 
occasions, Mrs S would have been able to see she had a choice and that PPI was an 
option. So I think Nationwide  properly got her consent. 
Ref: DRN49533852Nationwide also had a responsibility to give Mrs S enough information so she could make 
informed decisions about whether or not to buy PPI cover with the loans. 
The amounts (including  interest)  of both the loan and PPI part of the loan were set out on 
each agreement, as was the amount shed have to pay each month.  So I think  the costs 
wouldve been clear  enough for Mrs S. And even if I accept that Nationwide could have set 
things out better for her, I dont think this would  have mattered  to whether or not she would 
have still bought the policies. The evidence strongly points to Mrs S wanting the cover on 
both occasions.  
Mrs S appears to have  been eligible for the PPI and not caught  by any of the major policy  
exclusions we tend to see. In the event of a successful claim for accident / sickness, the 
policies could have  met the loan repayments until the loan was repaid. If shed become 
unemployed, she could have claimed for up to 12 months. Cashing in the loans early  
resulted in a proportionate refund of the PPI.
Mrs S said she already had some  sickness cover through  her job and Ive thought  about this. 
Unfortunately this doesnt mean the PPI wasnt of use. Having looked carefully at these 
types of sale, we dont think  they were advised sales. As such, it was Mrs Ss own decision 
about buying the PPI and shed have still received the benefits over and above any other 
means she had in place at the time.
I think the evidence  shows its much more likely Mrs S agreed to have these policies when 
she was asking for the loans. I think the way the cover was then described for her and how 
the costs were disclosed wouldve allowed her to see she had options and what  she was 
required to pay. Although  I know she will be disappointed, I dont think  they were  mis-sold.
All this means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S. But 
the Financial Conduct Authority  recently  issued guidelines about loans that took place 
between certain dates where  the lender expected to get more  than 50% of the PPI premium 
back in commission. I think Mrs Ss case may be affected by this guidance.
So, if Nationwide expected to get a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 
50% of the MPPI premium)  it should pay her back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium.
what Nationwide needs to do
I direct  Nationwide Building Society  to now calculate, and if necessary, pay back to Mrs S 
any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Nationwide Building  Society should  also pay back 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs S can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policies were  not mis-sold  so Nationwide  Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the costs  of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Ref: DRN49533853Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4953385