K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr T says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
BoS had to make Mr T aware the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before adding it to 
his card.  I cant be certain what was said at the time but BoS has provided  a copy of the 
available paperwork.  Mr Ts credit card agreement  shows that he signed separately from 
agreeing to the card itself to take the policy.  With this in mind  I think  Mr T would have known  
that he didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to have it, although I can understand why 
he may not remember this.
BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr T got the information  he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr T about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  he had of making his 
repayments which included sick pay and savings. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Mr T would have received, and protected his savings to be used  
towards other expenses. 
Mr T has told us he was a director of his own company and that this made the policy 
unsuitable for him. But the policy didnt make  it any more difficult for someone in his position 
to make a claim, than an employed person. So this point doesnt change my decision.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ts circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the remaining exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr T about  that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr T that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr T has said. But these points dont change  my decision.
Ref: DRN41662762my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr T any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4166276