K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Lloyds Bank PLC (then trading as C&G) mis-sold them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs G took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2002. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy, which just covered Mr G.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint because:
Mr and Mrs G ticked  a box on their mortgage  application form indicating  they wanted to 
apply for PPI. The box that said they did not want it was left blank. They  also completed 
a separate application  form specifically for the PPI, including  a direct debit instruction in 
order to pay for it. So I think Lloyds made Mr and Mrs G aware that they had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and they chose to take it. 
Mr and Mrs G say they only agreed to the PPI because they were told that without it their 
mortgage application may be declined.  However, I note that when they initially provided 
information to Lloyds about why they were  unhappy with the PPI, they said they werent 
aware they had it. Ive found no other evidence to support their allegation that they were 
told the PPI would help with their mortgage  application. So I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to uphold  the complaint based  solely on their recollection, which may 
understandably be inaccurate. 
Lloyds  recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, and it seems to have been right for them 
based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time. They had a small amount of 
savings and Mr G might have  got some  sick or redundancy pay if he was unable  to work. 
But the PPI wouldve paid their mortgage for up to a year in that situation  longer than 
their savings wouldve lasted.  And his sick and redundancy pay appears to have been 
discretionary rather than contractual. So it looks like the PPI provided valuable  protection 
for them. 
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even  if it 
had, I think Mr and Mrs G would still have bought it. 
Its possible that Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr 
and Mrs G dont appear  to have been affected  by any of those  things. 
Ref: DRN48815442Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Gs comments. But these points dont change my 
conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 November 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4881544