K822xcomplaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays  blocked and closed her accounts, without giving her advance  
notice or explaining its reasons for doing  so. And that it told her it would reverse  its decision,  
only to change its mind again.
To put things right, she wants  Barclays to re-open  her accounts, explain why they were  
closed in the first place,  and pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience  it caused 
her.
background 
Mrs H had a current account  and savings account  with Barclays. In October 2018, Barclays  
blocked and closed Mrs Hs accounts, with immediate effect and without explaining the 
reasons for its decision.
In December 2018, Barclays contacted Mrs H to say her accounts  had been  closed in error, 
and that they would be re-opened. Barclays then carried  out a further  review  and decided 
the accounts should be closed after all.
When Mrs H complained,  Barclays  apologised  for the confusion  and offered to pay £75 in 
compensation. But it said its original decision to close the accounts stood.
Mrs H remained  unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator  
thought Barclays  was entitled to close Mrs Hs accounts without  giving its reasons, but felt 
the terms and conditions of the account  entitled  Mrs H to more notice, before the accounts 
were closed. She also thought Barclays shouldve provided a better  level of customer  
service. So, she asked  Barclays to pay a total of £250 to compensate  Mrs H.
Mrs H didnt think £250 represented fair compensation  given what  Barclays had put her 
through, so she asked  for an ombudsman to consider the matter  afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed Mrs Hs complaint, I 
have decided to uphold it in part, for the following reasons.
Account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer, so long it does so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers  account. 
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Hs account  which both Barclays and Mrs H had to 
comply with  say that Barclays  could close the account by giving at least two months  
notice, or immediately and without notice,  under certain circumstances. 
Theres no provision requiring Barclays to explain the reasons for its decision though. Banks  
don't always  have to give reasons for their decision to close  an account.  And, having  
considered the information Barclays has provided, I'm satisfied it acted in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of Mrs H's account  when it declined to give her a reason for its 
decision. 
Ref: DRN40863542I recognise that not knowing  Barclays  reasons will be frustrating for Mrs H. But I cant  say 
that Barclays has done anything wring by not explaining its reasons, so I cant  reasonably  
ask it to do anything  further in that regard.
However, having looked at the evidence Barclays has provided me with regard  to the closure  
itself, Im not satisfied  it was right to close Mrs H's account without giving her notice.  And I 
think it would  have  been more appropriate  to give Mrs H two months  notice.
So, Ive looked  at the impact the instant  closure had on Mrs H, and Ive thought about 
whether or not Barclays has done  enough to put things right. I must stress at this point that 
Im only considering the impact on Mrs H of the events around this account. Im aware  of 
other issues Mrs H experienced, but Ill address those  in separate decisions.
I can see that Mrs H had other banking facilities elsewhere, which will have helped  her to 
reduce the inconvenience  she experienced. But by telling Mrs H that they had made a 
mistake and would be re-opening the accounts,  only to reverse that decision will have 
caused Mrs H distress. And that was amplified by the surrounding situation with Mrs Hs 
other accounts.
I dont think the £75 Barclays offered fairly  reflects the distress and inconvenience  its 
mistakes caused Mrs H. And I agree with our investigator that £250 is a more  appropriate,  
for the reasons Ive mentioned above. Given what Mrs H has already said in response  to our 
investigator, I understand that she wont agree with the award Im making. But I hope my 
explanation that Im only making an award based  on the actions relating to the matters Ive 
set out above  gives  Mrs H some consolation.
my final decision
For the reasons  I've explained I partly uphold Mrs Hs complaint. To put things  right Barclays  
Bank UK PLC should pay Mrs H £250 for the trouble and upset she's  suffered as a result of 
Barclays failing to give the required notice to close her account, and for poor customer  
service. 
I don't uphold Mrs Hs complaint that Barclays should reopen her account  or explain the 
reasons for its decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2020.
Alex Brooke-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4086354