K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about  the way Nationwide Building Society sold them a packaged 
bank account;  in particular the travel insurance  benefit. Mr J has brought  the complaint on 
behalf of himself and Mrs J. 
background
In April 2018 Mr and Mrs J arranged to upgrade  their existing bank  account  to a packaged 
bank account,  which amongst  other  things included travel insurance. Mr J explains theyd 
not been able to continue  their policy with a different company due to his age. They  told the 
insurers medical helpline about their medical conditions. For Mr J this was high cholesterol 
and high blood pressure (both of which he explained he controlled  with medication). In 
addition to the monthly fee he paid an additional  premium to cover  these two declared 
medical conditions for a one-year period, and for an age upgrade.  The insurer for the 
policy was a different  company from Nationwide. 
In early July 2018  Mr J called the insurer to tell it that, following hospital tests, he wanted to 
add a new medical condition called TIA (transient  ischaemic attack).  But the insurer  wouldnt 
cover the TIA, or his other declared  medical conditions.  It said the policy  still covered  any 
non-related conditions,  but Mr J explained  this was no good to him as he couldnt  travel 
abroad without medical travel insurance.  
Mr and Mrs J complained  to Nationwide that it hadnt explained  to them  that having the 
medical condition  of TIA might invalidate  the insurance. They wanted Nationwide  to return  
the amount theyd  paid for the medical and age upgrade for the policy  and the fees for the 
packaged bank  account as it wasnt fit for the purpose. They  also wanted it to compensate  
him for terminating  the policy part-way through the policy year, which  they said would 
increase his policy premiums. They said if theyd known the insurer might  invalidate the 
insurance theyd  have gone  to a different insurance  company  from the outset, as many  did 
cover TIA. 
Nationwide referred  Mr and Mrs Js complaint about  the insurance  policy  to the insurer.  
Mr and Mrs J came to us. 
Our adjudicator looked at Mr and Mrs Js complaints about both the insurer and Nationwide. 
Nationwide didnt accept  it had mis-sold  the policy. It said it had given Mr and Mrs J 
information about the packaged bank account so they could make  their own decision about  
whether it was suitable for them. It had explained theyd need to call the insurers medical 
helpline for it to cover their medical  conditions, and that there would be extra cost for this. 
Mr and Mrs J had paid the medical  upgrade, and this showed theyd been  given the relevant 
information about this. 
Our adjudicator thought Nationwide had done enough to explain the policy  cover  to Mr and 
Mrs J so she didnt uphold  the complaint. Mr and Mrs J asked for a review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN43003312This decision is confined  to Mr and Mrs Js complaint about Nationwide.  I make no findings 
about the insurers decision not to cover Mr Js medical conditions  after hed told it about the 
TIA, which is the subject  of a separate complaint about the insurer. 
Nationwide was required to give Mr and Mrs J enough information for them to make an 
informed decision about taking out the packaged  bank account. Mr J says Nationwide failed 
to do this, and so it mis-sold him a policy which  wasnt fit for the purpose.
Having reviewed all the evidence I think it likely, on balance,  that Nationwide  did follow its 
usual process when it sold the packaged  bank account to Mr and Mrs J. So this means 
I dont require Nationwide to refund any policy premium to him or the fees he paid for the 
packaged bank  account. 
Theres no dispute that Nationwide told Mr J hed need to phone  the insurers helpline to tell 
it about his medical  conditions.  He did call it and paid the extra amount required to cover  his 
medical conditions  and for an age extension. 
Mr J says that Nationwide should  have told him that if he had a TIA then the insurer  wouldnt 
cover his medical conditions at all. As I understand it he says his medical conditions were 
risk factors  for TIA and so Nationwide  should  have explained that the insurer wouldnt cover  
him. 
Ive thought about Mr Js comments  but I dont agree Nationwide  should have given him and 
Mrs J more information than it did. It was enough for Nationwide to explain about calling up 
the insurers medical helpline to tell it about  any medical conditions. Any decision about 
whether or not to offer cover  for medical conditions was the insurers  to make.  So I dont 
uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint about Nationwide.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint about  Nationwide  
Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4300331