K821x#15complaint
M, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank plc placed a block  on its account  
without notice so it wasnt able to receive  or make  any payments.
background
M paid two cheques into its account over the branch counter in September 2018  totalling 
£4,435.20. The cashier stamped and initialled Ms paying  in slip for this amount. About a 
month later, Ms director tried to make  a payment using the company debit card,  but it was 
refused. He found out that HSBC had placed  a block on the account which was preventing M 
using the account at all. Ms director says that this action caused  M considerable difficulties. 
Among other  things it lost business, its customers payments were held in a pending  
account, it received  a VAT demand, HSBC  withheld just over £17,000 of Ms money, and 
other banks  decided to close personal accounts.
HSBC said it was told by another  bank that one of the cheques  M paid into its account had 
been altered fraudulently. The cheque was for £4,320 but had gone through  the banking  
system as £41,320. HSBC blocked Ms account whilst it carried out an investigation into 
possible cheque fraud. It also saw that M had transferred the money to other accounts with 
third party banks.
HSBC asked the third party banks to return the money that M had transferred. They  returned 
almost £40,000, which  HSBC sent to the bank  on which the cheque  was drawn (paying 
bank). HSBC had also taken out nearly £15,000  from Ms account  whilst it was investigating 
the matter. It made a mistake in returning around  £39,500 to the paying bank. And this left M 
out of pocket by some  £17,500 for about three months.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. HSBC accepted that the cheque  
hadnt been altered and that M had paid it into its account correctly as £4,320. She thought  
HSBC should  write  to M to confirm that Ms director hadnt committed  cheque fraud. She 
asked it to pay interest on the amount  that had been  incorrectly  taken from Ms account and 
£500 compensation for problems caused  to M because it couldnt use its account.
In summary,  M didnt  think £500 was enough for the disruption and damage that had been 
caused to its business  and the knock on effect  it had had on the directors personal 
accounts.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC says that it had originally picked up the problem of the cheque  as an encoding  error.  It 
was then told by the paying bank that it thought a cheque M had paid into its account  had 
been altered.  I accept  that HSBC had a duty to investigate this. And whilst it carried  out its 
investigation it needed to block Ms account  to prevent any other transactions.  
HSBC has accepted that it made  a mistake. I have  looked at the cheque  in question. I agree 
that the amount written  in figures was poor. Owing to the way the comma was written  it was 
mistaken as the number  one and the cheque was processed as being for £41,320. But the 
words were  clear and showed that the cheque was intended to be for £4,320. I have also 
Ref: DRN49891242seen the paying in slip used by M. The counterfoil, stamped by the cashier,  clearly  shows  
that M paid in two cheques totalling an amount of £4,435.20. 
I consider this mistake  then caused a number  of events which had a significant impact  on 
both M and its director in his personal capacity. In summary:
On 23 October the paying bank told HSBC that it believed the cheque  had been 
altered and considered it to be fraudulent. It claimed £37,000.
HSBC saw that M made transfers  totalling £39,800 out of the account over the two 
weeks after the money had been  paid in. It considered that if M knew  the money 
didnt belong  to it then it wouldnt have moved it.  
Ms director  has been consistent  in saying that he was expecting  to receive some 
monies and when he saw a large  balance he thought it had arrived.  He was 
expecting in excess of £36,000  from solicitors and thought he had given them  the 
wrong account number. At the time, a family member was very ill, and in hospital, so 
he had a lot on his mind.   
Ms director  accepts  that he didnt look too carefully at the statements. He didnt want 
to keep that amount in Ms account  so made a number of transfers to his personal 
accounts at third party banks. 
The amount  Ms director was expecting to receive was roughly the same as the 
difference between  the genuine  amount of the cheque and the wrongly  processed  
amount. Given the personal difficulties Ms director was experiencing at the time I 
can understand that this was a genuine mistake on his part.
HSBC blocked  Ms account  on 23 October  2019  whilst it investigated. I think  it was 
right to do this because the money  had been  removed from Ms account.  If the 
money hadnt been removed it could have been returned straight away  subject to a 
few questions to check on the situation. 
When HSBC got a fraud report from the paying bank the money was gone. It has a 
duty to try and recover the money.  Here it ring fenced what remained in the account  
in case it couldnt get all or any of it back. So as well as blocking the account it 
removed £14,830.12 to return.
Ms director  visited the branch on 25 October. He told the bank that he thought that 
the bank had made a mistake with the encoding of the cheque. Ms director told the 
bank he was willing to repay the money.
HSBC contacted the third party banks to ask for the money to be returned and a total 
of £39,568.48 was recovered from the two third party banks.  HSBC  returned all of 
this to the paying bank. This was £2,568.48  too much as the claim was for £37,000.
One of the third party banks wrote to Ms director to give notice  to close  his account 
because of what HSBC  had told it about  what had happened   that it wasnt  a keying 
error but the cheque had been altered.
HSBC removed the block on 26 November.
Between 23 October and 26 November M wasnt able to use its account.
Ms director  was looking to re-mortgage  at the time and he said that he had the re-
mortgage offers withdrawn.
HSBC completed its investigation  and removed  the block on 26 November. It refunded the 
£37,000 to the paying  bank. But M didnt receive the refund of £17,398.60 until 28 January 
2019 so M says it experienced difficulties  for some  four months  in total. 
In April 2019 HSBC  wrote to M to apologise and to confirm that the cheque had not been 
read or processed properly. It has now agreed to pay 8% simple  interest  on £17,398.60 as 
Ref: DRN49891243compensation for M being deprived  of its money  and a further £500 for the disruption caused 
to Ms business.
I understand M and its director feel aggrieved  at the way the account  was handled. It said 
that it wasnt able to meet its commitments  when its account was blocked and it suffered a 
loss of business because of the time it took the director  to sort out the problem. M has also 
said that its director had a number of re-mortgage  offers withdrawn and his personal 
accounts closed.  
I appreciate M doesnt feel £500  is enough for the problems that it was caused. But as the 
investigator has explained, we cant generally  order banks to pay compensation to a limited 
company for distress. It is a separate legal entity and, as such, it doesnt have the capacity 
to feel upset or distress. But I can award compensation for the effect this has had on Ms 
business.
During the month or so that HSBC had blocked the account, M wasnt able to receive  
payments from its debtors  or make  payments to its suppliers. I accept that this could have 
had an effect on its reputation. Additionally,  M has only one director  who generates  the 
income for the company  so M says its business  was adversely affected. Whilst we seek  to 
fairly compensate consumers for the losses they incur as a result of mistakes made by 
financial businesses M hasnt provided  any evidence to show how its income  and profits 
were impacted by this. In the circumstances, Ive thought about the scale  and impact of the 
error and I think £500 is appropriate here.  
For the avoidance of doubt, HSBC has said that it didnt record any adverse markers against  
M or its director with any of the UKs fraud  detection databases. Im afraid  that I cant require  
HSBC to be responsible  for losses being claimed  if another bank decided to place a marker, 
which then caused  Ms director account  issues with other providers in his personal capacity. 
I say this because,  under  our rules,  we can only consider a complaint by the customer that 
holds the relationship with the bank in relation to the events that have been  complained  
about. Here that is M and not its director  in his personal capacity. If Ms director  is unhappy 
with something that happened on his personal account, he would  need  to take that up with 
the other bank or banks concerned. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require HSBC UK Bank plc to:
1.Pay 8% annual simple  interest  as follows:
On £14,830.12 from 23 October 2018  until 28 January  2019
On £2,568.48 from 21 November 2018 to 28 January 2019
2.Pay M £500  compensation for the inconvenience caused to the business (M).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4989124