K820x#14complaint
Ms P has complained about  Aviva  Insurance Limiteds actions after she claimed on her 
motor insurance policy.
Ms Ps partner, Mr F, initially brought this complaint to us. But as the policy is in Ms Ps 
name Ive addressed this complaint as being from her. For ease Ive referred  to both Mr F 
and Ms Ps comments and actions  as being those  of Ms P.
background
Ms P was in an accident with a lorry in 2016. Neither  she nor the lorry driver thought they 
were to blame for the accident. Aviva paid Ms Ps claim for the damage to her car, less the 
policy excess.
Aviva told Ms P that it was likely it would offer to settle the claim on a 50/50 split liability 
basis. But as shed  made a personal  injury claim it would await  the outcome of that before 
concluding the matter. Some time later, although Ms Ps personal injury claim hadn't  ended, 
Aviva told Ms P that it didn't think it could hold the other driver  at fault for the accident and 
closed its file.
Ms P brought her complaint about Aviva to us. The adjudicator didn't think Aviva had done 
anything wrong. Ms P didn't agree  so the complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Ms Ps made  many  detailed  points. Ive considered  everything  
shes said very carefully but don't  think it will be helpful to address every  points  shes made. 
Instead, in this decision I will focus  on what I see as being the key outstanding points. 
Also, Ms P has occasionally referred to other claims with Aviva and complaints about other 
organisations. But our rules don't  allow me to look at those issues as part of this complaint. 
So I only intend to comment on Ms Ps complaint  about Avivas handling of a claim following 
the 2016 accident here.
liability 
Ms P doesn't think she's in anyway at fault for the accident. So she doesn't think it would be 
fair for Aviva to hold her even partially to blame. 
I should say at the outset that its not my role to decide whos  at fault for an accident, as 
ultimately thats a matter  for the courts. And, like all motor policies, Ms Ps policy  allows 
Aviva to settle claims as it sees fit. That means  it doesnt require Ms Ps consent to decide  
how to settle a claim and it may make a decision  that Ms P doesnt  agree with. But Ill look to 
see that its done so reasonably.
The lorry was fitted with a dash cam.  So theres  video  footage  of the accident  happening. 
There are two videos on file, the second is slightly longer than the first at just under four 
Ref: DRN49684052minutes. But both show  the same  accident circumstances. Ms P feels  that the video footage  
has been tampered with. But I don't think shes right.
Ive studied the video  very carefully and the footage is timed. And the timer runs on smoothly 
in the versions  Ive seen and I don't think that would  be the case  if the video had been  
tampered with. So Im satisfied that the footage is accurate evidence showing  the accident  
as it happened  in real time.
Ms Ps also suggested that the footage is too short and it doesn't  show  the events following 
the accident. But, in order to decide whos at fault for an accident,  insurers would only need 
to see the events immediately before and during the impact. And thats what  the footage in 
both videos on file show. Theres  no suggestion of a second impact after the video  ends, so I 
don't think  that the fact that the footage stops where it does means it can't  be used to decide 
on who was at fault for the accident.  
Ms Ps also said that the damage  to her car door isn't consistent with the accident  shown on 
the video. But the video  shows  Ms Ps car hitting the lorry around the area of her drivers  
door and damage  to the door can be seen on the video after the impact.  So I think  the 
damage is consistent with the impact the video shows. 
Ms Ps also said that, closer observation can just see that no one is sitting  in the passenger  
seat as the car leaves. Shes added that the video  shows the shadow  of her passenger as a 
white out but doesn't show him leaving the car. And shed implied this is evidence  that the 
video has been  tampered with. Her passenger can occasionally be seen  on the video, but 
owing to the light and the reflections  on the cars windows  hes not always in view, including 
as Ms Ps car drives away. I don't think theres  any evidence  that the video has been  edited 
so that the passengers image has been deliberately obstructed. And at times images in it 
are somewhat blurred,  but I don't think that was a deliberate ploy by Aviva or anyone  else.  It 
follows that I don't think the videos been  edited to change the content. Thats  especially the 
case as the traffic in the background can be seen to move as could be expected. And that 
wouldn't happen if the shots  of Ms Ps car had been  edited to remove  any content. So, Im 
satisfied theres no evidence that the videos been tampered with. And the only reason that 
the view of her passenger  isn't clear is because of: the angle of the camera, the picture 
quality; the reflections and light at the time dont allow the viewer to see the passenger  seat 
and its occupant clearly.
Ms Ps also said that she thinks that the lorry driver was on the phone at the time of the 
accident.  But theres no compelling  evidence  of that beyond Ms Ps suggestions. And, in 
any event, the video clearly shows Ms P driving  into the lorry rather  than the other way 
round. So even if the lorry driver  had been  on the phone,  it still wouldn't  have meant  he was 
at fault for the accident. 
Im satisfied that the video footage hasn't  been tampered with. And given that it shows Ms P 
driving into the lorry. I think it was reasonable for Aviva to think  that if the matter went  to 
court it wouldn't be able to defend a claim. So its held Ms P at fault for the accident.  And I 
think thats fair in the circumstances.
Im aware that various people at Aviva have had different views on the liability over time. But 
thats certainly not unusual. And insurers will often try for the best possible outcome for 
themselves and their policyholders but insurers can change their view on liability as 
evidence becomes available, or on receiving replies from the other side challenging their 
Ref: DRN49684053interpretation of the evidence. So its not uncommon for an insurer's  view on liability to 
change as evidence  is reviewed. And thats  what happened  in this case.
Also theres occasionally been  confusion about  exactly who at Aviva was responsible for 
dealing with the claim. But I think, given the video footage shows  that Ms P appears  to be at 
fault for the accident, the conclusion Aviva reached  in the end is a fair one. And any earlier 
confusion doesn't  make  Avivas final decision on liability unreasonable.
premium
Ms P is also unhappy that Aviva quoted her a higher  premium after it settled the claim. But 
its not my role to say how much an insurer should charge, what  factors it should assess, or 
how much  risk to attach to each  of those factors. Insurance  is essentially an assessment of 
risk. And we generally  take the view that, providing  they treat people fairly,  insurers  are 
entitled to charge what they feel they need  to in order to cover a risk.
Ms Ps policy was due to renew in October 2016. But she didn't accept the premium Aviva  
offered and eventually took out insurance with another provider. As Ms P didn't renew with 
Aviva it no longer has the precise details of how it calculated her premium.   But that hasn't 
prevented me from deciding whether  or not Aviva dealt with her fairly.
At the time her policy was due to renew  Aviva  was still looking into the circumstances of the 
claim, which meant it was still open. When a claim is open, its standard  for insurers  to 
record it on internal and external databases as a fault claim until its settled.  So, although, at 
that time,  Aviva hadn't decided the liability issue, for the purposes of calculating  Ms Ps 
premium it would have  considered  the incident as if it was a fault claim. 
Its fairly  standard  for insurers  to rate drivers  with a recent fault claim against them  as a 
higher risk than drivers without such claims.  And its up to Aviva to decide for itself the risks 
that things like claims present. And if it believes that such claims make its customer  a higher 
risk it will charge a higher  premium. Thats a decision its entitled  to reach. And, as Ive said 
above, its not for me to tell an insurer what risks it should assess or how it should go about 
those assessments. 
So, I think its likely that the recent  claim had caused  Ms Ps premium  to increase. And that 
would have been the same for Avivas  other  customers with similar circumstances. So I don't  
think it singled Ms P out or raised her premium unfairly. And, as she knows, Ms P was under 
no obligation  to accept Avivas quote. So I think it dealt with her reasonably  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4968405