K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined her pet insurance 
claim.
My references include  RSAs agents. Mrs W is represented in her complaint  by her husband 
but for ease of reference Ill just refer to Mrs W.
background
Mrs W has an accident and injury insurance policy for her dog, the insurer is RSA.
In September  2018 Mrs Ws dog had a sudden onset of lameness on her right back leg while 
out on a walk. She received treatment  at her usual  vet (the primary vet) for a problem with 
her common  calcaneal  tendon (Achilles tendon). She was referred to another  vet (the 
referral vet) for further treatment and surgery. Mrs W claimed for the vets fees.
RSA declined the claim. It said the evidence showed  the condition  claimed for was a 
degenerative condition, which the policy didnt  cover.
Mrs W complained  to us. She said her vet had told RSA the lameness was due to an injury.
Our first investigator thought RSA should  pay the claim. RSA then sent further evidence as 
to why its vet believed the claim was due to a degenerative condition.
Our second investigator thought RSA had acted fairly in not paying the claim.
Mrs W disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said she didnt dispute her dog 
may have  underlying conditions but her vets stated they didnt believe that caused the 
incident which caused the claim. Mrs W also didnt  think it was fair that RSA could provide 
further evidence  to us after it had made its decision on the claim. She said her vet was 
currently not available so not able to provide any further evidence.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mrs W is unhappy that RSA has provided  further evidence  after our first investigator 
gave his opinion.  If RSA had provided a completely new ground for not upholding the claim 
I might  have  said it was too late for RSA to provide  new evidence at that stage. But RSAs 
further evidence  is clarification of the same argument it's used from the start to decline the 
claim. So its reasonable for me to take its new evidence into account in making my decision.
Our second investigator did say that we would look at any further evidence Mrs Ws vets 
could provide in response. I see that in May 2019 one of Mrs Ws vets unfortunately was 
temporarily unavailable. At the time of making my decision  we havent received any new 
evidence from Mrs W. If Mrs W does have relevant new information  from her vets she will 
need to send the new evidence directly to RSA for it to consider.
On the evidence I have I dont  uphold  this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN47817412Mrs Ws policy covers treatment your pet needs  from a vet practice if it is injured in an 
accident.
The policy defines  accident  as a sudden,  unexpected, specific  event that results in an 
injury to the pet.
The vet notes made at the time Mrs Ws dog was seen dont mention a trauma causing the 
lameness but Mrs W told us that her dog ran around  a corner and when she came back  she 
was limping. 
Neither party nor I know what happened when Mrs Ws dog was round the corner out of her 
sight. I need to decide whether on the available evidence its more likely that Mrs Ws dogs 
condition arose  as a result of an accident  or from a degenerative disease.
Mrs Ws primary vet submitted a claim for degenerative disease  of calcaneal tendon. The 
vets notes supporting  the claim refer to a thickening of the right calcaneal  tendon. The 
primary vet sent the dogs  x-rays to the referral  vet and notes of their discussion said both 
common calcaneal tendons were thickened and there was a degenerative disease of the 
common calcaneal tendons.
RSA declined the claim given that the claim was: made for a degenerative  condition, there 
was no evidence of trauma and Mrs Ws dog is only one of two breeds predisposed to 
degenerative disease  of the common calcaneal tendon.
Ive seen the referral  vets response to the decline.  He considered  Mrs Ws dog presented to 
him as having a partial tear of the common calcaneal  tendon  which likely resulted from an 
injury. Ive also seen the claim for the referral vets costs were made for injury to the 
common calcaneal tendon.
Having received the referral vets evidence RSAs  vet asked  to see the x-rays. RSAs vet 
says the point at which  the calcaneal tendon attached shows bony changes bilaterally that 
only develop  due to an inflammatory/reactive response at the site. RSAs vet says the 
referral vets notes also record this periosteal reaction.
RSAs vet concludes  from the medical  evidence that for Mrs Ws dog:
the degeneration of the ligament has gradually been breaking down, causing  instability at 
the site resulting in the formation of a periosteal reaction. This cannot  happen  in 
acute/traumatic cases  as these changes take time to form, at least 10 days  are usually 
required. These degenerative changes are proof that there was an underlying  issue  
occurring at the exact site where the tendon attaches to the bone.
RSAs vet also refers  to the primary vets notes of 6 November  2018 as evidence  that the  
primary vet understands  there is an underlying illness occurring that predisposes Mrs Ws 
dog to rupture  of the ligament. Ive seen the note and the vet does say they explained to the 
owner that although some injury must have caused the problem because of the sudden  
onset of lameness  its most likely (there) must have been an underlying  condition  that 
caused (her dog) to be more prone to the problem.
RSAs vets opinion  is that the lameness being sudden doesnt  prove  trauma. He says:  
Ref: DRN47817413in degenerative conditions like this the tendon weakens over time and this may or may not 
be painful, resulting  in either a grumbling lameness if uncomfortable or in no lameness at all 
until the point  when it has weakened  so much that even a small movement results in its 
sudden rupture. This small movement would  not be sufficient to rupture a healthy tendon.
The evidence the referral vet has given is outweighed by the detailed  evidence  RSAs vet 
has given as to the likely cause of the claim. Having considered the available  evidence Im 
satisfied that RSA can fairly and reasonably understand Mrs Ws dogs condition  wasnt 
caused by an injury in an accident.  The balance of evidence is that her dog has a 
degenerative condition that was the underlying issue which  caused the lameness to occur  
even if the lameness was sudden and unexpected.
On the evidence I have RSA fairly and reasonably declined the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019. 
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4781741