K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained that Progressive Money  Limited (PML) lent to him irresponsibly. 
background
Mr S was given a loan of £14,300 by PML in February 2016.  The loan was due to be repaid 
in 120 monthly instalments of around  £320. The total amount payable,  including interest was 
just over £38,446. I understand the loan has been settled. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Ss complaint. She thought PML shouldnt have 
provided the loan to Mr S. PML disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. So as the 
complaint hasnt been settled informally, it has been  passed to me to resolve  the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints  
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good  industry  practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ss complaint.
I think there are several overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats  
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did PML complete reasonable and proportionate  checks  to satisfy itself that 
Mr S would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?  If not, what would 
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?  
Ultimately  did PML make a fair lending decision?
Did PML act unfairly  or unreasonably towards  Mr S in some other way?
PML needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. This means 
that it had to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S could repay his loan in 
a sustainable  way. The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment  or affordability check.  
The checks  had to be borrower focussed   so PML had to think about  whether Mr S could 
sustainably repay  his loan.  Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific  
circumstances of the loan application.  In general,  what constitutes a proportionate  
affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors  including   but not limited  to  
the particular circumstances  of the costumer,  such as their financial history,  current situation 
and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability  or financial difficulty  as well as the amount / 
type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN43637262the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended  
period).
Ive carefully considered  all the evidence, arguments  and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Mr S.
PML asked Mr S for information about his income and expenditure and it acquired a detailed  
credit report.  PML also had a number of calls with Mr S; it requested  various forms of 
identification documents, pay slips and bank  statements from two of his bank accounts 
showing 30 days of transactions  in order to evidence Mr Ss income  and expenditure. 
I think PMLs checks  were  reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. But I dont 
think it made a fair lending decision and Ill explain why.
PML says that, based on the information  provided  and what it found in its checks, the loan 
was affordable. However, it seems to me that PML is focussing on its calculation  of whether 
the loan appeared to be affordable for Mr S on a pounds and pence basis.  But as Ive 
already explained, the lender was required to establish whether he could sustainably  make 
his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesn't automatically follow  this is the case. This 
is because the relevant  regulations define sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
I think PML ought  reasonably to have realised from the information that it gathered  in its 
checks that Mr S was having  serious  difficulties managing his money. And that there was a 
significant risk that he would find it difficult  to repay  his loan in a sustainable way.
Mr Ss credit  score was very poor. I appreciate  that his credit  report didnt show  significantly 
adverse information  such as defaults  or CCJs. But it did show that Mr S was heavily 
indebted with 22 active accounts; a total credit balance of over £173,000 including  a loan 
balance in excess of £18,000;  a revolving  credit balance of nearly  £16,000 as well as over 
£134,000 owing on mortgages. He was also utilising 98% of his £16,300 credit  card limit.  
The report  also showed that Mr S had opened 27 accounts in the six months prior to 
applying for the loan with PML. I accept that given the type of lending,  PML might expect its 
customers to have  experienced some financial problems. But I think PML ought  reasonably  
to have realised that Mr S had developed a pattern of reliance on short-term and unsecured 
lending. Mr S told PML that he was taking this loan in order  to consolidate debt associated 
with four credit cards. PML discussed  Mr Ss credit  report with him during a lengthy 
telephone conversation.  PML queried  why Mr S had taken so many short-term high cost 
loans, including  a loan for over £11,000 that had been taken only a couple of months before. 
Ref: DRN43637263It seems  to me that PML were aware from its conversations with Mr S and from his credit 
report that he was repeatedly  borrowing  to repay  other lending, only to borrow  again  shortly 
afterwards. I think this should have been of concern to PML because  it suggested that Mr S 
was struggling to get out from under his debt problems and he was finding  it difficult  to repay  
lending in a sustainable way. 
I have also reviewed the statements from the two bank accounts that Mr S provided to PML.  
Both accounts are overdrawn. I think PML out reasonably to have realised from Mr Ss 
statements that he was borrowing  regularly from several other short-term, high cost lenders, 
in addition to those debts he was planning  to consolidate with his PML loan. PML says that 
Mr Ss bank  statements  show  he was making additional payments to creditors as well as 
high cost short-term  credit. But from what Ive seen, this included regular, considerable 
expenditure with one particular company offering  CFDs  contracts for difference  which  
come with a high risk of losing money rapidly.  Mr S has told us he was trading with this 
company (known  then as Spreadex)  which trapped  him in further debt.  I think PML ought  
reasonably to have  realised that this further  indicated the difficulties that Mr S was 
experiencing in managing his finances.
PML says that as Mr S used his loan to consolidate some of his debt, this benefitted him by 
reducing his monthly  outgoings and giving an end date on the credit  cards he was clearing. 
PML also says that after directly consolidating some  of his creditors with his PML loan,   Mr S 
was left with 8 unsecured credit items. But PML was providing Mr S with an expensive loan. 
If the loan ran to term, Mr S would have to pay over £38,000 to PML and maintain  his loan 
payments every month  over an extended  10-year period. The rules  and guidance suggest  
that the risk of any credit not being  sustainable  directly relates  to the amount of credit 
granted and the total charge for credit - relative to the customers financial situation.
Ref: DRN43637264Taking things in the round,  I think PML ought reasonably to have recognised  from the 
information it had gathered that even after consolidating some of his existing debt with the 
loan, it was likely that Mr S would still have a high level of indebtedness and that its loan 
would most  likely increase  his indebtedness to an unsustainable level.
PML says that prior to raising  a complaint, Mr S didnt contact it to say that his loan 
repayments were no longer affordable.  And that he maintained his contractual repayments 
and settled the loan early. Bu as Ive explained, when PML agreed to lend to Mr S it was 
aware that his credit  history showed frequent borrowing in order to repay other lending. I 
dont think successfully repaying his loan early  automatically means that Mr S managed  to 
do so in a sustainable way or that hed found the loan payments  were affordable.
I think PML should  reasonably have realised that Mr S was having  serious  difficulties 
managing his financial problems; that he was borrowing to repay increasingly unsustainable 
levels of debt and that he would most likely need  to borrow  elsewhere  to repay his loan from 
PML.  I think PML ought to have  realised that it was unlikely  that Mr S would have been able 
to sustainably repay his loan over the full 10-year loan term. So PML ought reasonably to 
have concluded  that it was not appropriate  to lend to Mr S and declined his application.
Did PML treat Mr S unfairly in any other way?
Mr S has told us that he felt pressured to take the loan but Ive not seen anything which  
makes me think that PML pressured  him into taking the loan or that it treated him unfairly  in 
some other way.
But I dont think PML should have agreed  to provide the loan to Mr S. So PML needs to put 
things right.
Putting things  right 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr S to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest  and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt  have been provided to him. 
PML should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges  on the loan and treat all the payments Mr 
S made as payments  towards the capital.  
If reworking Mr Ss loan account results  in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital  borrowed, then PML should refund these overpayments  
with 8% simple interest calculated  on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*. 
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ss credit  file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PML to deduct tax from this interest.  PML should 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN43637265my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct  Progressive Money  Limited to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 December  2020.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4363726