complaint
Mr L complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc T/A First Direct (First Direct) wont refund him for a 
payment he made after falling victim to a scam.
background
In June 2018 Mr L received a brochure with an investment opportunity to purchase shares. 
After telephone conversations and completing an application  form, he decided to invest.
Unfortunately, while  Mr L thought he was investing in a genuine  company  which  was FCA 
(Financial Conduct  Authority) registered, Mr Ls interactions were  with scammers who had 
cloned the information of the genuine company. Mr L decided  to invest  £5,001.11, which  he 
paid via telephone banking at First Direct on 14 June 2018.
In July 2018 Mr L became aware he hadnt  invested with the genuine company. He 
contacted First Direct on 12 July 2018 to let them know hed been the victim of a scam  and 
asked First Direct to recover his funds.
First Direct  contacted the beneficiary bank on 13 July 2018 but were unable to recover  any 
funds. First Direct declined to refund Mr L saying hed confirmed the beneficiary details were 
correct and had willingly authorised the payment. But First Direct said they couldve  handled  
a call with Mr L better  and paid him £25 as an apology. Mr L raised  a complaint as he was 
unhappy that First Direct  hadnt protected his funds, and that he had broken communication  
during calls with them   with information not being passed between  their internal 
departments. And he felt they couldve done more to recover his funds and get the bank 
whod received the funds to take action.
As Mr L was unhappy with First Directs response,  he brought  a complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into the complaint and didnt  uphold  it. In summary they felt there was 
nothing First Direct shouldve done to prevent the payment, as the payment didnt appear 
sufficiently unusual or out of character to have  flagged. Also, First Direct had contacted  the 
beneficiary bank  in a timely manner once they were aware Mr L had been the victim  of a 
scam, but no funds  were  recoverable. They also explained that even if Mr L had been  asked 
additional questions, they felt it wouldnt have prevented Mr L from making the payment  as 
he was convinced it was a genuine company he was investing with. And having listened  to 
the calls Mr L had with First Direct, the £25 they paid Mr L was more than we wouldve 
recommended.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying that he felt £25 wasnt sufficient for the 
stress he suffered  due to the broken  communication  with First Direct. So, the case  was 
passed to me for a decision.
K820x#14
Ref: DRN4652086my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously  set out and for much the same reasons.
Its agreed by Mr L and First Direct  that Mr L authorised the scam  payment of £5,001.11, 
albeit as a result of Mr L being duped by the scammers. Mr L made the payment via 
telephone banking with First Direct.
Although Mr L didnt intend the funds to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services  
Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr L is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance.
However, Ive also considered what was considered to have been good industry practice at 
the time which required First Direct  to:
Have been  monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions  or other signs  that 
might indicate that its customers  were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud  and scams in recent  years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some  circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Having looked  at Mr Ls account statements, Im not persuaded that this transaction  was 
sufficiently unusual or out of character that I wouldve expected it to flag with First Direct as 
suspicious or potentially  an indication that Mr L mayve been the victim  of fraud. Mr L had 
made a bill payment  from the same account  a month prior for just over £4,000  and another 
bill payment a few months before of nearly £5,000.
And there has to be a reasonable balance between what  will flag as suspicious and 
preventing consumers being able to use their account without checking each and every 
payment  which would be unmanageable and unreasonable.
I appreciate that Mr L made this payment over the phone with First Direct staff. But as I dont 
think the payment  shouldve  flagged with them as suspicious, I wouldnt expect them  to have  
asked Mr L questions about why he was making  the payment  or completed any additional 
checks before processing the payment. But regardless, as the investigator explained, at the 
time Mr L made  this payment he was convinced he was investing in a genuine  company.
And having looked at the FCAs  website  it appears  there wasnt  a warning about the cloned 
company until July 2018, which was nearly a month  after Mr L made his payment. I havent 
seen anything that suggests  there was information  readily available  at the time Mr L made 
the payment that couldve alerted him to the company being cloned.
Ref: DRN4652086I understand Mr L feels the beneficiary  bank shouldnt have allowed a fraudulent company to 
set up an account.  But Mr Ls complaint  is against  First Direct and as such I can only 
consider First Directs actions in this case.
And while Mr L may feel that First Direct shouldve had some knowledge or indication  that he 
was sending his funds to an account held by fraudsters, regulations and industry guidelines  
at the time of this transfer only required First Direct to check the unique identifiers (i.e. the 
sort code  and account number). In this case Mr L provided a valid sort code and account 
number, albeit for an account  held by the scammers. While industry guidelines in respect of 
matching the account name  to the sort code and account number (known as confirmation of 
payee) have now changed   this wasnt in place at the time and cant  fairly  be retrospectively 
applied to Mr Ls situation.
Based on what Ive seen  Im not persuaded that First Direct shouldve  done more to prevent 
Mr L making this payment.
And, I can see that First Direct contacted  the beneficiary bank promptly on becoming aware 
of the scam in July 2018. But the funds had left the beneficiary account within  a day of Mr L 
making the payment in June, so there  were  no funds remaining that couldve been  recovered 
by the time Mr L became  aware of the scam.
Mr L is unhappy with the level of service  hes received from First Direct  and has referred to 
broken communication and the stress  that this has caused him. Having listened  to the calls 
he had with First Direct,  I think things couldve been  handled better. But I cant  see that this 
caused any delays  in them trying to recover Mr Ls funds or investigating his fraud claim. So, 
I think the £25 First Direct has already paid Mr L is more than reasonable.
I fully appreciate that Mr L has suffered  real stress  and upset due to what has happened and 
Im sorry  to hear of the impact its had on his health.  But the main cause of this is due to the 
actions of the fraudsters  and Mr L falling victim to a scam. And I cant fairly make an award  
against First Direct based on the impact of the scam when Im persuaded theyve taken the 
appropriate action  in the circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr L is going to be disappointed, but I cant  fairly recommend or ask First 
Direct to refund  the funds  hes lost.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2021.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4652086