K822xcomplaint
Mrs M complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc wont replace her damaged kitchen 
hob under her multi-appliance breakdown and service policy. 
background 
Mrs M has had a policy with Domestic & General since 2010. She has a multi-appliance  
policy where six of her domestic  appliances  are covered in the event of a breakdown.  
Changes were made over the years to the appliances covered and the type of plan itself.  By 
its own admittance, Domestic & General made  some  administrative errors when making  
alterations to the policies.  
In February 2019,  Mrs M called Domestic & General  to report her electrics  were tripping. An 
engineer was dispatched to attend  about  a week later. After the appointment, Mrs M 
telephoned Domestic  & General to complain  about  the conduct of the engineer. Mrs M 
explained that she had a separate oven and hob and that the appointment had been 
incorrectly booked against the oven when  it was the hob that was faulty. 
During the call, Domestic  & Generals complaint handler noticed that the hob wasnt  one of 
the six appliances listed as being  covered  on the multi-policy. The complaint handler also 
spoke to the engineer who said that the hob hadnt  been  earthed correctly at installation and 
this was the reason it was tripping the electrics.  The engineer said hed disconnected the 
hob so that Mrs M could  continue to safely use the oven. 
Domestic & General sent Mrs M its final response  letter a few days later. It said that the hob 
wasnt covered by her plan. It apologised for the service shed received from the engineer 
and paid her compensation of £10. Domestic  & General said it understood that Mrs M had 
arranged to have  her hob repaired independently.  
Unhappy with Domestic  & Generals investigation, Mrs M complained  to this service. Our 
investigator looked into her complaint and asked  Domestic  & General to send her its file. 
When it did, it admitted it had made an error  by not including the hob on the plan in 2013, 
and that if it had been correctly included Mrs M would now be covered. Domestic & General 
said that to compensate Mrs M for its error it would like to reimburse her for the repair shed 
had to her hob subject  to it being established that the fault repaired was something  that 
wouldve been covered by the plan in any event,  had the hob been included on it. It also said 
it could make changes  to the appliances  covered by Mrs Ms current  plan if she so wished. 
Finally, it said it was happy to pay further compensation of £100  for the trouble and upset  its 
errors had caused.  
Our investigator thought Domestic & Generals offer was fair so she asked Mrs M if she was 
willing to accept it. In reply, Mrs M said that the engineer  Domestic& General had sent out 
had told her the hob was unrepairable  and uninsured. So she hadnt  had it repaired at all; it 
was still broken. Mrs M said she wanted Domestic & General to replace the hob. 
Our investigator asked  Domestic & General if it would be willing to do so. It said that as no 
independent engineer had attended to report and repair on the damage  it could only rely on 
its engineers finding  about why the hob wasnt working. Hed said the fault was caused  by 
the hob not being  properly earthed which was the result of a faulty  installation.  As the hob 
hadnt broken  down (which was what the policy  provided cover for) it wasnt covered. 
Domestic & General said faulty installations werent something the policy  provided  cover for, 
Ref: DRN45186402so it wasnt prepared to repair  or replace it but it remained willing to pay Mrs M 
compensation of £100. 
Mrs M said this was the first shed heard that the hob hadnt been installed correctly.  She 
said the engineer  had told her it was a write-off.  She also said the engineer hadnt put her 
oven back properly. She wanted  to know whether Domestic  & General would reimburse  her 
for getting the oven reinstated. And she wanted to know if she added  the hob to the policy 
would Domestic & General come out to repair it. Domestic & General said it would  reimburse 
Mrs M the cost of getting the oven put back properly but wouldnt repair  or replace  the hob. 
Our investigator said to Mrs M that she didnt think she could reasonably  ask Domestic & 
General to do more  than it had offered to do. The complaint was passed  to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
hob
Domestic & General has admitted it failed to add the hob to Mrs Ms multi-appliance  
breakdown plan. The hob itself isnt working.  Regardless of the fact the hob isnt on the plan, 
Domestic & General has treated it as though it is. Thats because it made the mistake in not 
including it. So Mrs M hasnt been  prejudiced or disadvantaged at all by Domestic & 
Generals error; it has said it will treat the hob as covered. 
But the plan will only cover faults  with any of the appliances listed  if they have  broken  down.  
The only evidence about what  is wrong with the hob is from Domestic & Generals  engineer  
that came  out to inspect the fault.  He says the reason it isnt working is because  it wasnt 
earthed properly  when  it was installed. Thats why it trips the electrics. 
So whilst Domestic & General are treating the hob as included in the plan it will only cover  
faults if they are caused by a breakdown. Thats what the policy terms state.  In this case the 
fault isnt the result  of a breakdown; its the result of a faulty installation so it isnt covered by 
the policy terms. If it isnt covered by the policy terms I cant  reasonably  make  Domestic & 
General repair  or replace the hob. That wouldnt be fair. 
Mrs M remains without  the use of her hob. I have no doubt that thats an inconvenience  for 
her. I know  she thinks that as shes paid for her plan then Domestic & General should  come 
out and resolve  the fault. As Ive said though, the fault isnt something  the plan provides 
cover for. But it does sound as though the fault is something that could be reasonably simply 
sorted out by a competent  electrician. 
I can only look here at the fault associated with this complaint. The fact that Domestic & 
General mayve attended in previous years to deal with breakdowns  isnt relevant to this 
complaint. This fault unfortunately isnt covered by the plan.  It isnt the case either that 
Domestic & General wont pay to replace or repair the hob because  it isnt covered by the 
plan. It is treating the hob as covered. It isnt paying  to repair or replace the hob because  the 
fault isnt something  thats covered by the policy terms. Its original offer to do so depended  
on the fault being covered  by the policy terms. When  it discovered  it wasnt,  it declined  to do 
so. I dont think thats unreasonable. 
Ref: DRN45186403service issues
Domestic & General has admitted that the level of service it provided to Mrs M fell below its 
usual acceptable  standard. Its admitted it made  several administrative errors in relation to 
the plans she had and the appliances  included. It has apologised for the conduct of its 
engineer and has already paid Mrs M compensation of £10. It has since  offered to pay 
Mrs M a further £100 in compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its handling  of her 
plans and the claim for the hob as well as the engineers conduct. I think thats fair in all the 
circumstances and is in line with awards made by this service  in similar complaints weve  
received. 
cooker reinstatement
Towards the end of our investigators investigation, Mrs M alleged  for the first time that when 
the engineer attended he failed to reinstate her oven  properly  in particular not using the 
fixing screws. Our investigator put the allegation  to Domestic & General. It said that if its 
engineer hadnt refitted Mrs Ms oven correctly then it was something that needed rectifying. 
But given Mrs Ms concerns about the conduct of the engineer, it didnt think  it was 
appropriate for him to return.  It said that if Mrs M arranged for her own contractor to refit the 
oven and provide  a breakdown of its work  then it would reimburse her for doing  so. I think 
thats reasonable in the circumstances.  
If Mrs M arranges  for this to happen  she should send her contractors invoice directly  to 
Domestic & General. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
to pay compensation  of £100 to Mrs M for the trouble and upset caused by its handling  of 
her claim. Subject to Mrs M arranging for her own contractor to refit her oven  and provide a 
breakdown of his/her costs in doing  so, she should send the invoice to Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc and it should reimburse  her reasonable costs. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4518640