K820x#14complaint
Mrs O has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her an HSBC Plus 
packaged bank  account in 2007.  She pays a monthly fee for the account  which  provides 
several benefits in return.
background
Mrs Os account history  with HSBC is as follows:
she opened a fee-free basic account  in July 2005
this was converted to a fee-free full current account in August 2006
she upgraded to the Plus account in August 2007
the account remains a packaged  account to date
One of our adjudicators didnt think that HSBC mis-sold the Plus account to Mrs O and didnt 
recommend that HSBC  should pay her any compensation. Mrs O didnt agree so she asked 
for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mrs Os complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mrs Os complaint a lot of thought, I dont  think the Plus account was mis-sold to 
her. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mrs O was given a fair choice when she took her 
packaged bank  account.
When Mrs O raised her complaint her main point appeared to be that she wasnt told about 
fee-free accounts.  She explained that she was only offered a packaged bank account.
Ive thought about what Mrs O said but I can see that she took the packaged bank account 
by switching from a free account. At the time of upgrading shed held a fee-free account for 
over two years, so its clear she knew they were available. And I cant see anything  that 
wouldve made her think any differently. So on balance,  I think  that HSBC gave Mrs O a fair 
choice to take the Plus account,  and she chose to take it.
I dont think that HSBC personally  recommended  the Plus account  to Mrs O. So it didnt 
have to check if the account was suitable  for her
HSBC had to give Mrs O enough clear information about the packaged account for her to 
decide if she wanted it. Like our adjudicator, I think that Mrs O was interested  in some of the 
benefits of the packaged  account and chose  it because  of these benefits. 
Ref: DRN47818682In August  2007  the Plus accounts main benefits  were worldwide travel insurance and fee-
free overseas cash withdrawals. Mrs O says she travelled a number of times per year and I 
can see numerous cash machine withdrawals in the years that followed the upgrade.
As Mrs O travelled fairly frequently, I think the Plus accounts travel  insurance was probably  
appealing to her. I do understand  that she didnt ever need to claim on that insurance, but I 
think she knew it existed, and couldve relied on it to make a claim if shed  needed to.
With this in mind, I think HSBC most likely  told Mrs O about  the Plus accounts benefits 
before she upgraded. After all, I dont  think shed have agreed  to switch from an account with 
no fee, to an account  with a monthly fee, without getting anything in return  for it. She may 
not have gone on to use all of the Plus accounts benefits, but this doesnt  mean  HSBC  mis-
sold the account. 
Its possible that HSBC  didnt tell Mrs O everything it should  have  about  the Plus account. 
But I havent seen  enough to make  me think that Mrs O wouldnt still have taken the account 
even if HSBC had told her more about  it. 
I want to reassure Mrs O that Ive looked  at all the information I have about her complaint. 
And Ive thought about everything she has said. But having  done so I dont think  HSBC mis-
sold the Plus account to her. So I dont  think it owes her any money.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4781868