K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that CashEuroNet  UK LLC (trading  as QuickQuid)  was irresponsible to lend 
to him.
background
Mr C had five loans  from QuickQuid between March 2013 and December 2013  as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Due Repayment* Repaid
1 24 Mar 2013 £500 16d 9 Apr 2013 £570 7 May 2013
Extended
2 10 May 2013 £150 14d 24 May 2013 £180 N/A
Top-up 11 May 2013 £150 13d 24 May 2013 £360 N/A
Re-financed
15 May 2013 £50 42d 26 Jun 2013 £420 1 Jul 2013
1 x late fee
3 24 Jul 2013 £500 30d 23 Aug 2013 £600 26 Sep 2013
1 x late fee
4 1 Oct 2013 £500 31d 1 Nov 2013 £600 29 Nov 2013
1 x late fee
5 6 Dec 2013 £500 21d 27 Dec 2013 £600 Unpaid
* Maximum  scheduled monthly  repayment over the term of the loan
Mr C says the loans  were unaffordable to him and that QuickQuid never asked him about his 
expenditure. He said his loans generally  increased  and that, even after he made late 
repayments, QuickQuid  continued to lend to him. Mr C adds that he receives benefits as 
hes severely disabled  and the loans  caused  him considerable stress.
QuickQuid says it asked  Mr C about his income and checked his credit file and was satisfied  
the loans were affordable to him. It says his borrowing pattern did not suggest he was 
dependent on the loans  and that it was never  told Mr C was in financial difficulty. It adds that 
Mr C didnt make any payments to his final loan so the balance was sold to a third party debt 
collection agency.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He said he didnt have 
enough information to say it was unfair  for QuickQuid to provide the first two loans, but found 
loans 3, 4 and 5 shouldnt  have  been  approved. He said Mr Cs pattern of borrowing and 
issues with repayment  indicated that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator said QuickQuid should  refund interest and charges on loans 3, 4 and 5 (plus 
8% statutory interest), remove negative information about loans 3 and 4 from Mr Cs credit 
file, and remove loan 5 from his credit  file entirely. He acknowledged  that QuickQuid needed 
to buy back the loan 5 debt from the third party.
QuickQuid responded  to say, in summary, that it accepted the adjudicators 
recommendation.
Mr C responded to say, in summary, that he believed  none of the loans should have been 
approved. In particular  he said that loan 2 was agreed  even though hed repaid loan 1 late 
and that no additional checks were carried out before increasing loan 2 on two occasions.
Ref: DRN41637882my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Loans 1 and 2
When Mr C applied for his first loan from QuickQuid,  he said his income was £2,000. 
QuickQuid checked  his credit file and considered the repayment  was affordable to him. 
Although I think QuickQuids checks should have  gone further at this stage and it should 
have asked Mr C about his expenditure, I havent  seen anything  in the available information 
that would  have indicated this loan was unaffordable to Mr C.
Ref: DRN41637883Mr C extended the repayment of loan 1, by paying  the additional interest and making  the 
subsequent repayment on time. I cant say that should have indicated to QuickQuid that Mr 
C was in financial difficulties. Indeed,  when  Mr C applied for his next loan,  it was initially for a 
much lower  amount. I acknowledge  that Mr C topped it up twice,  but even the total amount 
borrowed for loan 2 was lower than his first loan.  As Mr C hadnt been late with any 
repayments before either of the top-ups, I cant conclude QuickQuid was wrong to have 
approved loan 2 or its top-ups.
Loans 3 and 4
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans 3 and 4 would most likely have 
shown that Mr C:
was showing signs he was struggling to repay his loans;
ohed deferred  the repayment on loan 1 and for loan 2 he took out two top-up 
loans and incurred  a late fee charge;
was at significant risk of being  unable to sustainably  meet  his repayments for these 
loans and, indeed,  he incurred a late fee for both loans 3 and 4;
was not reducing  his borrowing requirements as loans 3 and 4 were for the same 
amount as loan 1.
I consider QuickQuid should have realised from Mr Cs borrowing and repayment history that 
he was not using the money as a short-term solution  but, rather, was likely to have been in 
financial difficulties. So I dont think it should have approved loans 3 and 4.
Loan 5
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of QuickQuids lending  history with Mr C, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which QuickQuid should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so QuickQuid should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
5. I say this because:
By loan 5 Mr C had been provided  with a new loan within  days/weeks of settling a 
previous one for more than eight months. So QuickQuid ought  to have realised it was 
more likely than not Mr C was having  to borrow further to cover  the hole repaying  his 
previous loan was leaving  in his finances  and that Mr Cs indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably;
Mr C wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed QuickQuid. Loan  5 was 
for the same amount  as loan 1 so Mr C had paid large amounts  of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to QuickQuid  over an extended period.
I think that Mr C lost out because QuickQuid continued to provide borrowing  from loan 3 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time;
the sheer number  of loans, top-ups and extensions was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 3 to 5 and QuickQuid should put things right.
Ref: DRN41637884my final decision
My decision  is that I do uphold this complaint in part. CashEuroNet  UK LLC (trading as 
QuickQuid) should do the following,  as it has offered to do:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr C paid on loans 3 to 5;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  for loan 5, apply the refund to reduce any 
capital outstanding and pay any balance to Mr C; 
Arrange to repay any portion  of the sum due to the third party that is made  up of 
interest and charges   including any added by the third party;
Pay Mr C interest and charges he has already paid to the third party plus 8% interest  
simple per annum  on each amount from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
Remove any negative  information about loans 3 and 4 from Mr Cs credit  file.
The number of loans  taken by loan 5 means any information  recorded about it is 
adverse. So all entries about  loan 5 should  be removed from Mr Cs credit  file.
Tell the third party to remove  adverse  information it may have recorded about  loan 5
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If 
QuickQuid intends  to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance,  it must do 
so after deducting  the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4163788