K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that he had to pay additional  financial penalties and a contested sum to a 
third party in order for Santander  UK Plc to release its charge on his property  and complete 
his re-mortgage  to another lender. Mr B would  like Santander UK Plc to refund the litigation 
costs hes had to pay.
background
Mr B had an interest only mortgage  with Santander. The term of this mortgage ended  on 
15 February 2016. Mr B complained to our service as he contested  the date of expiry  as he 
believes his mortgage  should have ended in 2021. He was also unhappy about the way he 
was treated by Santander. Mr B had already complained to Santander previously about 
some charges and Santander issued him a final response dated  15 May 2018.
The complaint was considered by an ombudsman who had decided  that we could only look 
at the complaint points that Mr B made  about  litigation costs and Santander requiring him to 
pay additional financial penalties  and a contested sum to a third party  before  they would 
release their charge for the re-mortgage.  The ombudsman  said that we could consider costs,  
charges or penalties  that were applied after 15 May 2018 or those that were  not dealt  with by 
the final response letter sent out in May 2018.  The ombudsman said that all other  parts of 
Mr Bs complaint were  made out of time. 
The complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators who looked at the charges that Mr B 
had incurred since 15 May 2018  and she didnt think that Santander had acted unfairly. 
Mr B disagreed with what our investigator had said and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, I wont  
be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
To clarify, I will only be looking at the charges that have been applied  to Mr Bs mortgage 
account since 15 May 2018  which  is when  he got the final response letter  from Santander. In 
addition to that, Ill look at any other charges that have not been referenced  in the final 
response letter.
I have carefully looked at the mortgage transaction history that Santander have sent us to 
get an idea of charges that have  been  applied to the account. I found two other charges that 
have not already been dealt with in the final response letter.
One of these was a £225 deeds  handling fee which, from looking at Santanders  terms and 
conditions, is a one-off  account handling fee. This fee is either  applied  to the mortgage on 
completion, or it can be held back until redemption. This fee was debited on 8 October 2018 
which was the date that the mortgage  account  was redeemed. I cant see that this was 
charged on completion, so I think based on what I have seen of the terms and conditions, 
this charge was applied  according to those  which  is fair.
Ref: DRN49317212The only other fee that was applied was a solicitors  fee of £1,186.71 which was added  to 
the account on 13 December 2018, just over two months after redemption.
I asked Santander  why this charge was added after redemption and they said once a 
mortgage account is redeemed, they ask their solicitors for their costs  and then these are 
added once they receive them.  
I have reviewed the invoice that Santander have sent for this charge and its a litigation cost 
for the work  that was carried  out by their solicitor. This invoice states  that the billing  period  is 
from 31 October 2018 to 12 November  2018.  We asked Santander why the billing dates are 
after the mortgage was redeemed and they told us that that there was a hearing set for July 
2018 which was put on hold. It was later identified on 18 October 2018 that the account was 
redeemed. They said on 19 October a motion  for dismissal was drafted and the Decree of 
Dismissal was received by the court on 8 November 2018. The case  was then closed. I think 
this explains the dates in question. 
I have reviewed the terms and conditions which confirm that any legal fees can be applied to 
the mortgage account to be paid for by the borrower. This isnt unusual. So, I cant say that 
Santander have  applied these charges incorrectly. Looking at the invoice in detail, I havent  
seen anything that was charged  which would be deemed as unfair. Im satisfied that this 
charge has been  applied  because of the work that has been carried out by Santanders 
solicitor and cant say that these  have been applied unfairly.
These are the only charges that have been applied since the final response  letter  of 15 May 
2018 and which also havent been  dealt with already by Santander. These would be the 
costs that Mr B is referring  to when he says he had to pay additional fees and contested the 
sum to a third party, as I see no other  charges made to the account.
I understand that Mr B is unhappy  with the solicitors  charges, but his mortgage term did end 
on 15 February 2016. I can see from the transaction history  that Mr B did make some lump  
sum payments to his mortgage  in order to reduce the balance  which  did help, however he 
was not able to re-pay  the full outstanding balance. 
It is also noted that due to Mr Bs ill health, Santander gave  Mr B a period of grace until 
31 March 2017  in order to repay the balance on the mortgage. They  also sent Mr B a letter  
which was in response to another  complaint he had made, which made it clear that Mr B 
would either  need to re-pay the outstanding balance or apply for a mortgage with another 
lender to enable  this to happen.
I can see from the contact notes that Santander have sent us, that Mr B had various 
conversations with Santander about repaying the mortgage  after the term had ended.  But 
nothing formal had been put in place. Mr B raised  a complaint with Santander about the term 
end date of the mortgage  which  Santander  responded to. 
Mr B still hadnt managed  to repay the outstanding balance, so Santander started litigation 
action. Santander  were entitled  to try and get their money back  which  is why they started 
litigation. In these overall circumstances, I think that was a reasonable step for them to have 
taken.
I appreciate that Mr B will be disappointed  with my decision, but Im satisfied that these 
charges have been applied correctly and in line with Santanders terms and conditions. 
Ref: DRN49317213my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4931721