K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard), trading at the time as Egg, mis-
sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  when he took out a new credit card in 
2003 over the internet. 
Ill refer to Barclays throughout my decision because its now responsible  for the sale.
background
I can see that Mr G has already been paid some money for the commission  Barclays 
received from selling him the PPI. But one of our adjudicators looked into this case in detail 
and didnt think Mr G had been mis-sold the PPI policy. 
Mr G disagreed and still thought he had been  mis-sold the PPI in the first place.  So he asked  
that an ombudsman  make a final decision about his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint about the mis-sale.
We know quite a bit about these types of sale because weve seen a few of them.  As a 
consequence, we have  a good understanding of the sales  processes that normally took 
place and the documents that were generally  used.
Barclays also sent us an example of the type of web-based form it thinks  Mr G would have 
filled out during  his credit card application. It says Mr G wouldve been presented with a yes 
/ no choice about  having PPI with his new credit card.  Barclays  says he would have had to 
choose one of the two options to be able to continue his way through  the application and 
that he must  have chosen the yes option  on the screen for PPI to be added 
Looking at the computerised records Barclays sent in and also what  Mr G told us, I think he 
did do an on-line application. We no longer  have  access to his actual application form, but I 
think its reasonable to assume he wouldve had to make a PPI selection  on the type of form 
Barclays showed us. Theres  no dispute  that PPI was sold to Mr G, so I think this makes it 
very likely he chose  the option to have PPI. I therefore think Barclays properly obtained  his 
consent. 
Barclays didnt provide an advised sale because I think Mr G wouldve made his own way 
through the on-line application in his own time and without any direct help from Barclays.  So 
Barclays needed only to provide him with enough  information so he could decide for himself 
whether or not he wanted PPI. 
I can accept Barclays might  not have done everything right. But I also think  Mr G would have 
been sent a welcome letter explaining the PPI. Barclays sent us a copy  of what  this letter 
would have been like. So I think hed have had information on which  to base his decision.
Ref: DRN46316002I also dont think Mr G was caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these 
policies. And because it cost £0.74  for every  £100  outstanding on his monthly credit card 
balance, I think it wouldve been affordable  for Mr G. In the event of a successful claim on 
the PPI policy, Mr G wouldve also been able to have his outstanding balance reduced by 
10% each  month for up to 12 months.  So looking at his overall situation, I think this is 
probably why he chose the PPI on his application  I think  he wanted the cover.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G. But it 
agreed to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because when the policy  was sold, 
Barclays expected  to get a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium). It should have told Mr G about that. To put that right, Barclays  has basically 
offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share  that was above  50% of the 
PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Barclays has agreed to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Barclays  should  also pay back  to Mr G any extra  
interest Mr G paid because of that. Barclays should  re-work  the credit  card account and pay 
back to Mr G the difference  between what Mr G owes  and what  he wouldve owed if the 
commission and profit share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays  
should also pay Mr G 8%* simple interest  if Mr G paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr G can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back  all the 
cost of the PPI to Mr G. But it does  have to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done  so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4631600