K821x#15Complaint
Mr A complains that Everyday Lending Limited acted irresponsibly by lending  him money  in 
December 2017.
Background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional
decision dated 3 April 2020  a copy of which is attached and forms part of my final
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought Everyday Lending was irresponsible  
when it approved Mr As loan.
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final
decision.
Mr A responded to let me know that hed accepted my provisional  findings. Everyday 
Lending, however,  didnt  respond.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent  received any new evidence or information, Ive reached the same conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision  for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold  Mr As complaint.
To put things right, Everyday Lending Limited should:
a)remove all interest,  fees and charges from the outstanding balance on the loan, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr A as though they had been repayments of the 
principal.  
If this results  in Mr A having made  overpayments  then Everyday Lending Limited 
should refund these  overpayments  with 8% simple  interest*  calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. 
b)remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr As credit file in relation to the loan 
once the loan is settled.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Everyday  Lending Limited to deduct tax from this interest. It should  give Mr A 
a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if Mr A asks for one.
Ref: DRN49904362Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN49904363Copy of provisional  decision
Complaint
Mr A complains that Everyday Lending Limited  acted irresponsibly by lending  him money  in 
December 2017.
Background
In December 2017, Mr A applied for a loan. Everyday Lending lent him £3,500 to be repaid over 24 
months at £254.71 a month. The total amount repayable over the full term of the loan was £6,113.04. 
Mr A thinks Everyday Lending shouldnt  have lent him the money.
Our adjudicator looked  at the complaint and thought Mr As complaint about  the loan he took out in 
December 2017 should be upheld.  He didnt think Everyday  Lending had carried out sufficient  checks 
before deciding  to lend Mr A the money. And he thought that had Everyday Lending done more, it 
would have realised the loan repayments werent  sustainable.  So, he recommended  that Everyday 
Lending refund Mr A any charges and interest he paid on the capital sum he borrowed and waive any 
additional charges incurred. He also recommended Everyday Lending remove any negative 
information about the loan from Mr As credit file once the capital has been repaid in full.
Everyday Lending didnt agree with our adjudicators  assessment  of Mr As complaint. So, the 
complaint has passed  to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
In considering what is fair and reasonable I have taken into account  relevant  law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice;  and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. Taking  all of this into account, I think the overarching questions I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstance of this complaint are:
Did Everyday Lending  complete reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr A 
would be able repay the loan in a sustainable way?  If not, would those  checks have shown that 
Mr A would have been able to do so?
Did Everyday Lending  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine  that Everyday Lending did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with Mr A and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what  is fair compensation.
Did Everyday  Lending, complete reasonable  and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mr A would 
be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
The regulations in place  when  Everyday  Lending  lent to Mr A required it to carry  out a reasonable 
assessment of whether  Mr A could  afford to repay his loan in a sustainable manner. This is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability  check.
Ref: DRN49904364The affordability check  should  have been borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending had to think 
about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause financial difficulties  or adverse 
consequences for Mr A. In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to only think about the 
likelihood that it would get its money back without considering the impact of the loan repayments on 
Mr A himself.
The checks Everyday Lending carried out also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances 
of the loan application. In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check  will depend on 
a number of factors including, but not limited to, the particular circumstances of the borrower (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same customer, a 
proportionate check will more likely than not look different for different loan applications.
In light of that, I think reasonable and proportionate checks should generally be more  thorough:
the lower a customers income (as it could be harder  to make any loan repayments from a 
lower income);
the higher the amount  to be repaid  (as it could be harder to meet a higher repayments from a 
given income);
the longer the term of the loan (as the total cost of the loan is likely to be greater and the 
customer is required to make payments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which  could  affect how detailed a proportionate check  should  be 
when it comes to a loan application  including,  but not limited to, any indications of borrower 
vulnerability and any foreseeable changes  in the consumers future circumstances. Ive thought about 
all the relevant factors  in this case.
Ive carefully considered what reasonable  and proportionate checks  should  have looked like
when Everyday Lending  was in the process of approving the loan for Mr A. And Ive thought carefully  
about what checks Everyday Lending says it did and whether those were  proportionate in the 
circumstances.
When bringing his complaint to our service, Mr A explained  that he was unable  to afford  the loan 
repayments alongside his other credit commitments,  which included a number of short-term  loans, 
credit cards, bank loans and a large overdraft.  As a result, he doesnt think he should have been 
given the money.
Everyday Lending believes  the affordability checks it carried out were sufficient. In support of what its 
said, Everyday Lending has provided  us with some information about  the checks it carried out and the 
information it used when deciding to lend Mr A the money. This included  internal system notes, a 
copy of the income  and expenditure assessment  which  it completed  at the time of the loan application 
and a copy of Mr As bank statements for the period 6 November to 11 December  2017.  Its also sent 
us a copy of Mr As credit  report and copies of his payslips.
Looking at the income and expenditure  assessment Everyday Lending completed  at the time of the 
loan application, I can see a figure  of £2,635.71 was used to represent Mr As monthly income.  
Everyday Lending has explained that it estimated  what Mr As monthly  income would  have been, 
using one of the weekly payslips Mr A provided in support of his weekly earnings. 
I can also see Everyday Lending used a figure of £922.71 to estimate Mr As monthly  living expenses. 
In its submissions to our service, Everyday Lending explained that it came to this figure, using the 
assumption that Mr As general living expenses would have been  35% of his monthly income.  
So, Ive thought about whether Everyday Lendings decision to make use of these estimated figures  
was appropriate, given the available evidence. And based on what  Ive seen, Im not satisfied 
Everyday Lending carried out proportionate checks in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ill explain 
why.
Ref: DRN49904365Everyday Lending had copies of Mr As bank statements and payslips which  it could have used to 
calculate what  his actual income was. Im surprised  it didnt use this to help paint a more  accurate 
picture of Mr As monthly income. Having reviewed Mr As bank statements  and payslips,  its clear 
that his weekly income wasnt fixed, and fluctuated depending on the number of hours  he worked  
each week. This can be seen in his bank statements for November 2017, which show that Mr As 
weekly salary fluctuated  between  £545.33 and £633.17.  So its clear that this estimate wasnt 
supported by the other information that Everyday Lending had to hand. 
Everyday Lending also used an estimated figure to represent Mr As living  expenses. Given the size 
of the loan and the length of time it would take to repay it, Im surprised  Everyday Lending considered  
it reasonable to rely on an estimate, when it had copies of Mr As bank statements which showed  
what his actual outgoings  would have been.
As Mr A was borrowing a relatively large sum of money at a high interest rate over a not insignificant 
period of time, I would have  expected Everyday Lending to have carried out proportionate checks  to 
ensure that it had a good understanding of Mr As actual  financial situation.   
To conclude,  Im concerned that Everyday Lendings  checks for Mr A were  heavily  based estimates.  
And I think that Everyday  Lendings decision to proceed with Mr As application  on this basis, without 
working out Mr As actual disposable income  when it had clear evidence  of his likely income, living 
expenses and other expenditure, meant that it didnt  complete reasonable or proportionate checks  
when deciding  to lend Mr A the money.
Would proportionate checks on this loan have indicated to Everyday Lending that Mr A would  have 
been unable to repay his loans in a sustainable manner?
As I dont think Everyday  Lending carried  out proportionate checks, Ive gone on to consider what 
would have happened had Everyday Lending carried out further checks. In the circumstances of this 
complaint, I think that had Everyday Lending  carried  out further affordability checks using the 
available information,  I think its unlikely that it would have thought  the lending  to Mr A was 
sustainable. Ill explain  why.
In coming to its decision  to lend Mr A the money, Everyday Lending used an estimated figure of 
£2,635.71 to represent Mr As monthly income. Its also calculated that Mr A would have had around 
£680.54 each month as disposable  income.
Having reviewed  Mr As bank statements,  its clear that the figure used to estimate Mr As income was 
overly optimistic and wasnt  a true reflection of his actual  monthly income.  I say this, because I can 
see that in the month preceding the loan application, Mr A earned £2,356.80, which is £278.91 less 
than the amount Everyday Lending used when coming to its decision to lend Mr A the money. Had 
Everyday Lending used the bank statements  and payslips  which Mr A provided it with, it would have 
realised that Mr As income was lower  than the amount  it chose to use in its affordability checks.
In addition to this, Everyday  Lending used an estimated figure of £922.71 to represent Mr As monthly  
living expenses. But looking at Mr As bank statements  for the month preceding  the loan, Im satisfied 
that he was paying at least £1,030 towards his monthly expenses (excluding rent), which excludes  
any provisions  for things like food, toiletries  and any other basic items he more  likely than not needed  
to cover. So, Im not persuaded  that Mr A would  have had the disposable  income each month, which 
Everyday Lending says he would have had  in fact, I think it would have been  far less.
In addition to what Ive said above, a review  of Mr As bank statements and credit file, has revealed  
that he was heavily reliant on a large  overdraft and short-term loans. At the point at which  Mr A 
applied for this loan, his account was overdrawn  by around £4,750,  despite being  paid his weekly  
salary three days  earlier.  
Mr As bank statements  show that between the period 6 October  to 5 December 2017,  Mr A had a 
total of 46 separate transactions relating to short-terms loans  5 of which were credits to his account. 
Ref: DRN49904366He also appears to have had a credit card and two bank  loans, which he was in the process  of 
repaying. Ive also noted that the credit check Everyday Lending carried  out at the time of the loan 
application showed Mr A owed around £12,376  to his creditors. This strongly  suggests Mr A was 
relying on credit to help meet his day-to-day  financial obligations, including the repayment of his 
outstanding debt. 
In support of its decision  to lend Mr A the money, Everyday Loans has told us that it thinks  the loan 
would have helped  Mr As financial  situation,  by consolidating his debt and thereby reducing his 
overall monthly repayments.  It says this shows that it was right to lend Mr A the money. 
While I can see that the proceeds of the loan would  have,  at the most, helped consolidate around a 
third of Mr As total debt in the short-term, I cant see that this would  have put Mr A in an overall better 
financial position in the long-term as the time over which  Mr A would need to make his loan 
repayments sustainably, had increased significantly.  Given  Mr A was having  to repay  £6,113.04 in 
order to consolidate a maximum of £3,500 of his outstanding  debt, I cant see how this loan helped  
improve Mr As overall financial situation.
In addition to this, Everyday  Loans has told us that the fact that Mr A agreed to pay more  than his 
contractual loan repayments, shows that the loan was sustainably affordable.  While I accept that Mr A 
initially offered  to repay more than he needed towards his loan, I dont think  this in itself shows that 
the repayments were  sustainable. The fact that he was consistently relying  on his large overdraft  
facility to cover his day-to-day expenses and meet  his financial commitments,  meant it was likely that 
hed be using  his overdraft to make his loan payments  and he was therefore likely to be borrowing 
further to make any payments.
Looking at the information  provided, I can see Mr A started falling into difficulty with the repayments 
within six months of applying for the loan, when he asked for a refund of the additional amount hed 
been repaying  on his loan. The available information also suggests  that Mr A had been relying on 
short-term loans to help keep up with his overall  financial commitments.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I think Everyday Lending ought to have known that their assessment  
of Mr As financial situation  wasnt a true reflection of his actual financial situation, and that the loan 
repayments werent  sustainable in the circumstances. Taking everything  Ive said into account,  I think 
the information Ive seen gives a strong impression that Mr A was struggling  to fund his day-to-day 
expenses and was relying heavily on credit to help meet his financial commitments.  
Based on what Ive seen of Mr As actual financial  situation, I think its more likely than not that he 
would have had to borrow again during the lifetime of this loan in order to meet  his monthly  
repayments. 
For these  reasons, I dont think Mr A was going  to be able to repay  this loan in a sustainable manner. 
I think  that if Everyday  Lending had made proportionate checks it would have realised  this. And I think  
Mr A has lost out because of what Everyday Lending did wrong.
Did Everyday  Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mr A has raised  some concerns about the amount  he borrowed.  He says he initially asked for £1,000 
but was told he only qualified for an amount of £3,500. He also complained that Everyday  lending 
didnt do enough  to support  him when he fell into financial difficulties and was unable to make his 
agreed loan repayments.
Having thought about what Mr A has said about the amount he says he was told he had to borrow, I 
dont think its necessary for me to make any findings on whether I think Everyday Lending acted  
unfairly in any way. While I havent seen anything within  Everyday  Lendings  submissions to support 
what Mr A has told us, I dont think it makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint as Ive 
already concluded that Mr As complaint about  the sale of the loan should  be upheld. 
Ref: DRN49904367Ive also thought  about  what Mr A has said about the way in which  Everyday Loans handled his 
account after he informed  them of his financial difficulties. Based on what  Ive seen, there appears to 
be conflicting information about  what  happened when Mr A had contacted Everyday  Loans.
Mr A says Everyday Loans  didnt assist him when  he requested a payment holiday to help him sort 
out his finances. Everyday  Lending, on the other hand, has provided  some brief contact notes from its 
internal system to show that it had declined Mr As request for reduced loan repayments and a 
payment holiday, due to inconsistences and inaccuracies  in the information Mr A provided about  his 
income and expenditure.  
Our adjudicator asked Mr A for some further information about this particular complaint point as it 
wasnt clear  why Mr A thought that Everyday Lending had acted unfairly towards him. Mr A hasnt 
provided us with anything further to consider.  So, based on the available  information, Im unable  to 
conclude that Everyday Lending acted unfairly in its dealings with Mr A after he fell into financial 
difficulties. 
To conclude,  while I do think Mr A has lost out because Everyday Lending unfairly provided  the loan 
to him in the first place, I havent seen  anything to suggest that it also acted  unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr A in some  other way.
Putting things right
Everyday Lending Limited shouldnt have given Mr A the loan.  
I understand that there may still be an outstanding balance on Mr As loan account. If that is correct 
then this is what I propose Everyday Lending  should do to put things right:  
c)remove all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance on the loan, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr A as though they had been  repayments of the principal.  
If this results in Mr A having made overpayments then Everyday Lending Limited should refund 
these overpayments  with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have  arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.  
d)remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr As credit file in relation to the loan once the 
loan is settled.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Everyday  Lending Limited to deduct tax from this interest. It should  give Mr A 
a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if Mr A asks for one.
Everyday Lending Limited should provide me with an up-to-date statement of account in response  to 
this provisional  decision.   
My provisional decision
I currently intend to uphold Mr As complaint. And I currently intend to require Everyday Lending  
Limited to put things right as outlined above.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4990436