K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complains that the interest  rate he was given on a loan from Lloyds Bank  Plc is too 
high. 
Background
Mr G took out a loan for £4,000 with Lloyds on 21 January 2017 at a rate of 26.3%  and 
repaid it on 14 November 2018.  
Mr G successfully applied for another loan on 16 November 2018.  Lloyds agreed to lend 
Mr G £7,500 at a rate of 17.7%. Mr G accepted the loan agreement and the funds were 
released to him. 
In January 2019 Mr G complained about the interest  rate Lloyds approved for his new loan. 
Mr G says its higher than it should be because Lloyds incorrectly assessed his application 
on the basis that he had another loan outstanding.  Lloyds didnt uphold  Mr Gs complaint 
and said he applied for the loan online and accepted the interest rate offered in the loan 
agreement. Lloyds also said there  are a lot of factors involved in setting the interest rate of a 
loan. 
Mr G referred  his complaint to our service and it was passed to an adjudicator. The 
adjudicator asked Mr G to provide a copy of his credit  file but he asked us to proceed without 
it. The adjudicator  didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. Mr G asked to appeal so his complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I note Mr Gs concerns I havent seen  any evidence  to show  the interest rate he was 
given was incorrectly inflated due to the loan hed recently repaid. Lloyds has explained it 
looks at lots of different  information during a loan application. This includes an applicants 
credit file, what it knows about the customer from existing and previous accounts and what  
its told within the application. 
Its entirely possible that Lloyds took the relatively  short period of two days between  loans 
into account when  deciding what interest  rate to apply. But the loan interest rate would  also 
have been influenced by the information  Mr G provided in his application, his existing and 
previous accounts  along with details on his credit  file. 
Unfortunately we havent been able to review  Mr Gs credit file so I cant say whether there  
was anything that may have influenced  the interest rate. 
Whilst I understand Mr Gs concerns, I havent been persuaded that hes been  overcharged.  
Ultimately, Mr G applied for a loan online and Lloyds accepted  his application  and said it 
would approve  a rate of 17.7%. Mr G didnt receive  any advice from Lloyds and decided to 
proceed. I havent  found anything to show Mr G has been overcharged  or that Lloyds made 
a mistake with his application. As Im satisfied Lloyds hasnt overcharged Mr G and I think  
its dealt with his complaint  fairly  Im not telling it to take any further action. 
Ref: DRN46290732My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4629073