K821x#15Complaint
Miss S is unhappy with Virgin  Money  plcs handling  of payments to her credit  card account, 
and delays in removing late payment markers on her credit file.
Background
Miss S had a Virgin Money credit card. She said she paid £600 in July 2018 to clear her 
account, but the payment  wasnt  made to her account because shed provided  the wrong 
reference number.  And she said late payment charges and late payment markers were  
then applied to her account.
She said Virgin Money had told her it would remove the late payment marker from her 
credit file. But in September 2018  when  this didnt happen, Miss S complained and said 
she told it she wouldnt be making any further payments because  shed  waited so long for 
this to be resolved.
In January 2019 Miss S complained again  to Virgin Money. She said that the late payment 
markers were still on her credit  file. She said it told her that it would remove the original late 
payment markers,  but not the ones applied after she stopped  paying  in September 2018.
Virgin Money issued  a further final response letter in January 2019. This was in response 
to Miss Ss later complaint  about the late payment markers still being in place. It said that it 
had sent a further instruction to the credit  reference  agencies for the late payment markers  
for May 2018  and July 2018 to be removed. It also said that it would not be removing the 
late payment markers for September to December  2018.
One of our investigators  investigated this complaint. He said that he was unable  to 
consider the original complaint because  Miss S had brought  the complaint to us more than 
six months after Virgin Money had issued its final response letter. He looked at the later 
complaint and said that he felt that the monthly  account statements clearly set out the 
amount of arrears, the minimum payment required, and the date it must be paid by.
He then explained how hed reviewed the complaint using our inquisitorial remit. He felt 
that Virgin Money should have been  aware of Miss Ss potential  vulnerability when she
asked for a credit limit increase in May 2018.  He acknowledged that it tried to address her 
gambling transactions and financial difficulties, but he felt it couldve done more.  He said 
that it should refund all charges and interest from 10 May 2018, with interest.
Miss S agreed but said Virgin Money  should have been aware of her situation from around 
June 2017 to October 2017 and asked  that all charges back  to then be refunded.
Virgin Money disagreed  with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman  decision.
Ref: DRN44368292I issued a provisional decision in January 2020.  My findings were  as follows:
I was satisfied that it made clear to Miss S what she needed to do to meet the 
minimum payments and to keep  her account in order.
I was satisfied that it was reasonable for Virgin Money to block  the account
I was satisfied that it took reasonable steps  to find out more about  Miss Ss financial 
difficulties at the time.
I also said that Virgin Money didnt have to refund any interest  or charges. 
A copy of my provisional decision is attached.   
Responses
Virgin Money accepted  my provisional decision. It also said that it had invited Miss S to 
contact its Special Support Team, and asked that team to contact  her to agree payments 
going forward.
Miss S disagreed with my provisional decision.  She provided copies of a number of 
messages shed sent to Virgin Moneys  secure messaging service.  She said this shows  that 
Virgin Money was aware of her gambling  issues  and that she was gambling  thousands per 
month.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im partially  upholding this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Miss S feels that Virgin Money should  have been aware she was in financial difficulty 
because of her gambling problem. She said she was struggling  to make the minimum 
payments and her credit card showed she was spending large amounts on gambling every  
month. She thinks they should have blocked her card. This would have stopped her 
gambling on the card and allowed her to clear the amount she owed.
Our investigator felt that Virgin Money  was aware of Miss Ss potential  vulnerability from 
around February 2018 and it could have done more to help her. He said he didnt think it was 
necessary for Miss S to tell Virgin Money she was in difficulty. He felt that it should have 
blocked her account  sooner because the account  had been over the agreed limit since 
February 2018, and it had recognised  the pattern of spending.
I said in my provisional decision why I felt Virgin Money had taken reasonable steps  to 
discuss the situation with Miss S. And I said it was reasonable  for it to accept Miss Ss 
statement that she wasnt in financial difficulty.
Ive considered the further information  provided by both parties, and looked again at when 
Virgin Money should reasonably have been  aware Miss S had a problem. Ive also 
considered if it should have  blocked her card and prevented further spending.
Ref: DRN44368293Miss S has provided some statements for the period up to September 2018.  These  show her 
estimated gambling  spend to be:
September 2017 statement  more than £14,000 on potential gambling transactions
October 2017 statement  approximately £5,000 on potential gambling  transactions
December 2017 statement  - approximately £6,000 on potential gambling transactions
January 2018  statement  approximately  £2,500  on potential  gambling transactions
February 2018 statement  more than £3,500  on potential gambling transactions
She has also provided a number of messages she sent to Virgin Money on its secure 
messaging service:
In June 2017 she asked if it was able to block cash withdrawals  on her account
In March 2018 she said shed accidentally gone  over her credit  limit and gave a 
promise to pay the following  month
In May 2018 she said hed accidentally left herself short this month, and promised to 
make the payment  two weeks later.
In September  2018 she told it she had used her full balance  to gamble
In April 2019 she asked it to cancel the last few transactions on her card as these 
were made when she was drunk. She said this shows she was drunk gambling.
Virgin Money said Miss S told it in October  2018  she wasnt in financial difficulty and didnt 
have a gambling problem. Despite this, it did have concerns so it flagged  her account to its 
Specialist Support  Team.  This team would review  the account  every three months.
Miss S told us Virgin  Money wrote to her in January 2019. It told her it was blocking her 
account because  she was more than three months in arrears. So its clear  it was actively  
reviewing the account and was prepared to take the appropriate steps to prevent Miss S 
spending more  on the account.
Miss S thinks that Virgin Money should  have blocked her card in September 2018.  She said 
she told them she did have a gambling problem. In her response to my provisional decision 
she said told Virgin Money at the time I am happy  for my account  to be active as I am 
unable to gamble  anymore but it was supposed  to say I am not happy for my account to be 
active as I am unable to gamble any more. And she repeats it should have been clear  to 
Virgin Money she was struggling.
Im prepared to accept that she may have made a mistake in her message, but I have to 
consider what action Virgin Money  took on receipt  of the message. This exchange shows 
that it did discuss its concerns with her, and it accepted that she would  no longer be 
gambling. It was at this point it flagged her account to its specialist  team  and as noted 
above, it monitored the account for the next three  months, and then blocked  it.
But Miss S was allowed to spend  on her card after January  2019.  Virgin  Money wrote to her 
in February 2019.  It said that its Specialist Support Team was aware  of her difficulties but 
confirmed it would remove  the block from the account if Miss S felt able to manage her 
account. She confirmed  she was happy to do this. Virgin Money  records show that it called 
Miss S in February 2019 and she said she was happy for the block  to be lifted.
Its clear to me that there was sufficient information available to Virgin  Money for it to be 
aware that Miss S had a gambling problem. This is apparent from what shed said and from 
the statements  in the 12 months up to September 2018. It appears that Virgin  Money was 
Ref: DRN44368294also aware there was a problem, as it passed the matter to its specialist team.  In my 
provisional decision I accepted it had taken  the correct steps in October 2018 to assess  the 
risk and to not block the card.
In October  2018 she told Virgin Money  she wasnt in financial difficulty. It accepted  this but 
flagged the account for review every three  months  by its specialist support team. In January 
2019, when further payments were missed  it blocked the account. But in February 2019, 
when she called to query this, it agreed to lift the block,  following a conversation when  she 
was asked only if she felt able to manage the account. 
This is where I feel Virgin Money  was irresponsible. It had identified  Miss S was in financial  
difficulty, and in September 2018  she told it she was using the balance  on her card to 
gamble. With this knowledge, I would have expected it to do more before lifting the block. In 
the circumstances, and considering Miss Ss financial difficulties and vulnerability, I would 
have expected it to be prompted  to conduct  a further  lending  check  before lifting the block.
I would have expected it to conduct reasonable and proportionate checks to see if lending  
again to Miss S was responsible. This is because  it already had sufficient information about  
her gambling  issues, the impact this had on her spending, and her inability to repay  the 
monthly balance. 
Instead of taking responsibility and asking sufficient questions to understand her current  
situation, it only asked  her if she felt able to manage  the account. It then granted  her access 
to credit when she said she was able to manage the account. It hasnt shown me any 
evidence that it asked any questions about her personal circumstances, or anything to 
suggest her situation  had changed since its decision to block the card.
If it had asked further questions or sought  further information, Im satisfied that its more 
likely than not that these checks would have  shown that Miss S was still unable to 
sustainably repay  the amount borrowed. I say this because her circumstances hadnt 
changed.
Virgin Money said it didnt  record Miss Ss gambling  as an issue because it didnt have 
explicit consent to record this. But as Ive already said, it had sufficient information from its 
own records to show that Miss S would have difficulty maintaining the account  and that there 
was no information  to show that this position  had changed.
I accept that it was reasonable for Virgin Money  to decide in October 2018 only to monitor  
the card based  on what Miss S had said at the time. But, I find that it was irresponsible for 
Virgin Money to lift the block on the account  in February 2019,  and agree to further lending, 
as it didnt conduct reasonable or proportionate checks  before lifting the block.
Putting things right
Miss S wants the whole of the outstanding  balance cleared. She said it should have frozen 
the account in September 2018 and if it had, she wouldnt have been  able to spend more 
than £4,000 in January 2020, after a family  member  agreed to clear  the balance  outstanding 
at the time. I disagree  I accept that Virgin Moneys  decision in September 2018 was 
reasonable, but not the decision in February  2019  to lift the block.
So Virgin Money  should refund all charges and interest from 5 February 2019, the date it 
decided to lift the block to January 2020,  when her account was cleared.
Ref: DRN44368295Pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement. HM Revenue  & Customs requires Virgin  
Money to take off tax from this interest.  Virgin Money must give Miss S a certificate showing 
how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Miss Ss credit file should be amended to show the status of the account if it had remained 
blocked. This should include any late payment markers where Miss S failed to make 
payments on time. 
Miss S says the late payment markers Virgin Money agreed to remove  are still present on 
her credit file. It should look into this and take the necessary steps to have them removed if 
they are indeed still present.
Virgin Money doesnt need to write  off the balance that was owing. This is because Miss S 
had the benefit of the money,  and is likely to have received some return on her gambling.
Ive only looked  at the decisions  made by Virgin Money from when the complaint was made  
in September  2018 up to the decision  to lift the block in February  2019.  I understand Miss S 
has made a further  complaint regarding the decision to lend in February 2020. I have not 
considered that complaint as Virgin Money has still to issue its final response on that matter.
But given Miss Ss gambling  history, I urge both parties to discuss  the options for resolution 
of this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ss complaint.  Virgin  Money plc 
should put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4436829