K821x#15complaint
Mr W says Dudley Building Society  (DBS) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr W took out a PPI policy to cover  a mortgage  with DBS. It now seems as if both parties 
now agree  that the policy most  likely started  when the DBS mortgage started in October 
1996. Mr W paid a monthly amount for the policy, which most  likely provided cover if Mr W 
couldnt work because of accident, sickness, unemployment. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. DBS disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint was passed to me to consider. 
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 17 September 2019,  a copy  
of which  is repeated below, and so it forms part of this final decision.  In my provisional 
decision I set out the reasons why I was minded  to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 17 October 2019.  At the time of writing both parties told us that 
they had received the provisional  decision. Mr W has said he has no further submission  to 
make. DBS acknowledged that they have received the provisional  decision and at the time of 
writing I have received  no further submission from them or any request for an extension. I 
consider that both parties have had sufficient time to make a submission had they wanted to, 
so I am proceeding to my final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ws case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
Im currently minded  to uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
So the questions  I need to consider are whether  DBS gave Mr W information  that was clear, 
fair and not misleading in order to put him in a position where he could make  an informed 
choice about the insurance he was buying.  And whether in giving any advice or 
recommendation, DBS took adequate steps to ensure  the product it recommended was 
suitable for his needs. 
DBS has said it did not give Mr W any advice about whether he should take out the policy.  
Mr W thought  that he was told he had to take the policy.  But because  it makes no difference 
to the outcome of this complaint I have assessed this complaint  on the basis that no advice  
was given to Mr W. So DBS didnt  need to make  sure that the policy was suitable  for Mr W. 
But it did need to provide  him with information  sufficient for him to make  an informed choice. 
Its not straightforward to decide a case when there are no documents  available from the 
time of the sale that would shed light on the complaint. This sale happened over 22 years 
Ref: DRN45247582ago, so its maybe not surprising that such evidence isnt available. Where there isnt much  
evidence for me to consider,  I need  to make  my decision based on a balance  of probabilities 
 that is to say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both sides have  said, and make a 
decision based on what I think most likely happened.  
Having considered the case and all the submissions made in this case, I do not think that 
DBS ensured Mr W was in a position to make a properly informed choice. 
I am upholding  Mr Ws complaint because I think that Mr Ws employment  status  would have 
made it hard to claim under the terms of the policy, most likely. I say this because  Mr W has 
told us that he was self employed at the time of the sale. Maybe its not surprising that 
neither DBS or Mr W has been  able to provide a copy of the policy document that would 
have applied  in 1996, as these events occurred over 22 years ago. But we have seen a 
policy document that applied in 1999. It seems most likely that this is similar to the policy that 
was sold in 1996. The policy document says that,
If you are self employed, you will be insured if the Business that you work in has Ceased  to 
Trade.
In the definitions section, it says Ceased to Trade means the permanent  total cessation  of 
your business caused entirely by circumstances beyond your control  or the control of any 
director, owner or partner  in Your Business.   
So it seems  that Mr W would  have not been  able to claim for unemployment cover without 
ceasing to trade permanently. So Mr W couldnt return to his self-employed work  if his 
circumstances changed. I think this is something that he wouldve thought important.
The term is found in the policy document that DBS has provided  but this term was a 
significant one and needed to be sufficiently highlighted  to Mr W. Having looked at all the 
submissions made in this case I do not think DBS has demonstrated that it made clear that 
there may be restrictions to when  a self employed person could claim for unemployment 
cover. So I dont think Mr W was given enough information about the policy when  he decided 
to take it out.  
I think that if Mr W knew about the terms that applied for a self employed person claiming 
carer cover,  he wouldve thought he was only likely to benefit from the other parts  of the 
policy and wouldve thought the policy expensive because of that. So I dont think he 
wouldve taken it out if properly informed.
I think that the policy was mis-sold and DBS needs  to do something  to put things right.  
what DBS  should do to put things  right
DBS should put Mr W in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The policy  
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and DBS should:
Pay Mr W the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year. 
Ref: DRN45247583If Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, DBS can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires DBS to take off tax from this interest.  DBS must give 
Mr W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
For the period  1996-2000 DBS should  make some  reasonable assumptions as to what  Mr W 
paid. I am mindful that the policy  cost £15.64  in 2000. And that the move of provider at that 
time was done partly  to achieve lower  premiums. So the premiums from 1996 to 200 were 
probably at least as much as the premium in 2000 if not more.
 If DBS are unable to make an assumption  as to what  Mr W paid monthly for this period  
then to ensure  Mr W hasnt lost out it should assume the monthly cost of the PPI was the 
same as it was in 2000. DBS should  respond  to this PD with what it thinks the likely cost of 
the policy was for this period. 
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am intending to uphold Mr Ws complaint and to direct
Dudley Building  Society  to pay Mr W compensation in accordance with the calculation set 
out above. 
I have considered again all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order  to decide  
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In the absence  of any 
further points  for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set 
out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ws complaint 
about Dudley  Building Society. 
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W either  to 
accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing,  before  18 November 2019. 
If Mr W accepts my decision it will be binding on the business. Dudley Building Society 
should then calculate and pay Mr W the redress as calculated in the what DBS should do to 
put things right section  of my provisional  decision. That includes them  making some  
reasonable assumptions about the premiums Mr W most likely paid from 1996 onwards. 
Ref: DRN45247584But Mr W could  still refer the matter  back to this service, possibly as a new complaint, if he is 
unsatisfied with the redress calculation Dudley Building Society  then performs. I mention that 
in case Mr W is concerned  that Dudley Building  Society has been silent so far on what  
assumptions it intends to make in respect of premiums it has no record  for.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4524758