K820x#14complaint
Mr L says Bank of Scotland plc (BofS) mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1998.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ls credit  card account when he applied for the card by post. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint because:
 I think BofS made Mr L aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it  
although I can understand why he can no longer remember  this. Ive looked at his 
application form for the credit  card and he has ticked a box to say he wanted PPI.
 BofS didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr L so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. 
 Its possible the information BofS gave  Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr L chose  to take out the policy  and so appears to have  wanted  this 
type of cover. He was not affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations  and the policy  
was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr L would 
have made a different decision if better  information had been provided. On balance I 
think he would still have taken  out the policy.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Ls comments,  including what  hes said about  having a PPI 
policy for his mortgage and about  another bank upholding a similar complaint. Ive reached  
my decision  based  only on the circumstances of this particular  complaint,  so these points 
dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4418723