K822xcomplaint
Mr J has complained about BISL  Limited.  He believes it renewed his home insurance policy 
between 2015  and 2018 without his authorisation. He says,  when he complained, it only 
offered to refund half of the premium.
background 
Mr J, via his mother, Mrs J, arranged cover with BISL in 2014. The cover renewed in 2015 
and each year after including 2018.  Mr Js accountant then, shortly after the 2018 renewal,  
noticed that money was being  taken  for this cover, along with money for other cover Mr J 
had arranged in the years since.
Mr J contacted BISL. It cancelled the 2018  policy straight away and, because the policy 
hadnt been used and had only just started, most of that years  premium was refunded to 
Mr J. BISL said it had acted in line with the agreement made in 2014  to renew where 
possible, and hadnt been told not to renew cover. But, on behalf of the insurer, it said it 
would arrange  a part refund of premiums if Mr J showed it hed been covered elsewhere, or 
contacted those other insurers  and gave permission to them  to share  his details with BISL 
when it called. 
Mr J wasnt happy. He felt all his premiums should  be refunded  because, he said,  BISL 
hadnt contacted him and had arranged cover  for him which he didnt need or want.
Our investigator said that evidence BISL had provided had showed it had tried to contact 
Mr J at each renewal by email and post, as well as uploading documents to a self-service  
portal. As such she didnt  think  BISL could be blamed for any costs  Mr J had for duplicated 
policy cover.  And she noted that it would  be the insurer which  would ultimately be 
responsible for refunding any duplicated  policy costs.  She said if Mr J felt he should  get 
more than 50% hed have  to put that complaint to the insurer.
Mr J said it didnt matter what BISLs  evidence showed, he definitely didnt get contact from 
it. He said emails werent deleted and there  were around  24,000 in the contact email inbox; 
having gone through every one he could confirm none were  from BISL.  Mr J said, if 
necessary, he could provide photos of the inbox from around the date of renewal to evidence  
this fact. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cover was arranged  in 2014. Mr J accepts he wanted cover and he didnt ever contact BISL 
to say he didnt  receive  any policy documents. The policy  documents  did explain the policy 
would renew automatically, that BISL  would  send documents  before every renewal, but that 
Mr J could contact it if he didnt want the policy to renew automatically. Mr J accepts he 
didnt contact BISL. So as long as BISL  sent renewal documents  to Mr J, it kept its end of 
the bargain that both parties  had entered into  to have an automatically renewing  policy.
Ref: DRN44334352Our seeing photos of the email inbox wouldnt assist Mr J in achieving  a better outcome for 
his complaint. BISL has shown that it did send  emails  it cant  reasonably be expected to 
guarantee receipt of what it sent.  But BISL  didnt communicate only by email. Rather it also 
sent renewals by post and uploaded  them on a self-service portal.  
Even accepting that none of the emails that BISL sent reached Mr Js email contact inbox, 
Ive no reason to think that all of the posted documents failed  to arrive at his address. I think,  
given the evidence BISL has shown  that its more likely  they did arrive at the address and 
were missed  by Mr J, than that BISL didnt send them  in the first place. 
Theres also the self-service  portal. BISL  showed that all documents were  uploaded there. It 
also showed that after the policy was set up Mr Js registration on the self-service portal was 
logged by its systems. It says only the policyholder, or someone  acting  for them,  can 
complete registration.
I appreciate that Mr J didnt realise  that the policy would renew automatically. But Im 
satisfied that BISL acted  in line with what was agreed when the policy was arranged,  
including that it sent renewal information to Mr J each year to inform him about the 
continuing cover. If Mr J has had a loss in respect of duplicated  cover  in the years 2015  
2018, or any part thereof, Im not persuaded thats due to any fault of BISL.
In terms of collecting policy premiums,  holding any money and/or reimbursing any refund 
due, BISL acts on behalf of the insurer. Therefore, any complaint about refund of the 
premiums needs to be made to the insurer. However, I note that BISLs suggestion (to 
provide 50% of the refund cost upon  sight of proof of duplicated  cover)  does seem,  on the 
face of it, to be in line with the standard industry approach to dual cover. Whether  its fair in 
Mr Js circumstances  assuming that is what the insurer  ultimately offers to reimburse him  
can only be determined by us if he complains to the insurer,  remains  dissatisfied by its 
response and makes a further complaint to this service. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against BISL Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4433435