K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them  mortgage payment protection  insurance 
(MPPI).
background
Mr and Mrs W took out MPPI with their mortgage  in 1998. They paid a monthly amount for 
the MPPI.
I sent Mr and Mrs W and Lloyds  my provisional  decision on 14 March  2019. I said that 
before I made my final decision Id consider any more comments and evidence that I got by 
14 April 2019.
Mr and Mrs W and Lloyds did not send  me any new comments or evidence in response  to 
my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive reached the same  conclusions for the same reasons  as in my provisional decision. Ive 
explained my reasons  again below. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint because:
Lloyds hasnt  been able to provide  paperwork that shows how the MPPI  was presented  to 
Mr and Mrs W. I dont think this is surprising given that the MPPI was sold to 
Mr and Mrs W over 20 years ago. For the same reason,  I wouldnt necessarily expect 
Mr and Mrs Ws recollections to be that detailed. Ive carefully considered what  
Mr and Mrs W have  said about this, and I acknowledge its possible the MPPI  wasnt  
presented to them as optional.  But overall I just dont think theres enough evidence to 
say this is what most likely happened. So I think its most likely  that Lloyds made 
Mr and Mrs W aware that they had a choice about buying the MPPI,  and that they chose 
to take it.
Lloyds recommended  the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs W, and it seems to have been  right for 
them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time. Ive thought carefully 
about what  Mr and Mrs W have said about  their circumstances   their sick pay 
entitlement, Mrs Ws redundancy pay entitlement, Mr Ws death-in-service  benefit,  Mr Ws 
accident insurance, their savings and that theyve  said their family wouldve supported 
them if need  be. However, the MPPI provided different  cover  to Mrs Ws death-in-service 
benefit. Ive also not seen enough evidence to make me think that the accident insurance 
Mr W has said he had provided the same cover as the MPPI.  Ive also not seen any 
evidence to support  what  Mr and Mrs W have said about them  having  savings of £8,000  
to £10,000. This is not to say they didnt have this amount of savings  they mightve 
done. But even  if they did, I can see from Mr and Mrs Ws response to the adjudicators 
assessment that it appears they had various expenses at the time, and I dont think  they 
Ref: DRN40724352would really have  wanted to rely on using any savings they mightve  had to pay their 
mortgage in the event  of accident, sickness or unemployment. And even though I 
understand they had some sick pay entitlement and Mrs W has referenced redundancy 
pay entitlement, the MPPI  couldve paid out irrespective and on top of this potentially  for 
up to 12 months per claim, at what couldve been quite a difficult  time. The MPPI was 
designed to cover against the unexpected; circumstances  can change; and I dont  think  
Mr and Mrs W would really have wanted to rely on their family, even if they could have 
(which wasnt  guarantee)  if the time came. The mortgage was an important long term 
financial commitment. And overall, Im not persuaded that I can say it was wrong for 
Lloyds to recommend  the cover.
Its possible Lloyds  couldve  explained the cost of the MPPI  better  than it did. But even if it 
had, I think Mr and Mrs W wouldve still bought  it. Its also possible Lloyds didnt point out 
the main things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs W dont appear to have been  
affected by any of those  things.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ws comments.  But for the reasons explained above, 
these points dont  change my conclusion.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4072435