K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Close Brothers Limited didnt  provide the service  it should have in 
regard to his conditional sale agreement account.  He says a default was applied  even 
though he was making payments and that he was told his account had been terminated 
when it hadnt.  
background
Mr W entered into a conditional  sale agreement with Close  Brothers in January 2014  to 
acquire a car. He says that he was made redundant and missed a payment in late 2017. He 
says he that he kept in touch with Close Brothers  and that although he asked for call backs  
these didnt always happen. He got another job and was making payments but says that a 
default was applied to his account. 
Mr W also says that in April 2018,  he called Close Brothers and was told he couldnt make a 
payment because his account had been  terminated.  However he later found his account 
wasnt terminated until June 2018.  He says that had he not been told incorrect  information  in 
April he would have made payments towards his account.
To resolve  this complaint  Mr W wants his credit file amended. He says he can pay the 
amount outstanding in full. 
Close Brothers says that arears had built up on Mr Ws account and that in March 2018 he 
spoke to a manager and agreed to make  his payment and pay a bit more  towards  his 
outstanding balance. This didnt happen  and a termination letter was sent on 21 April 2018. 
It says Mr W then contacted it to say he was looking  at selling the car and so extra time was 
provided to allow for this. It says Mr W was due to call back  about this but didnt and 
following an unsuccessful call on 30 April, the termination was issued for sign off on 1 May. 
The termination was signed off on 12 June  and Mr W was contacted to say his account had 
been transferred  to a third party on 4 August. 
Close Brothers says that it followed its correct  process in regard to Mr Ws account.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. 
Mr W didnt accept our adjudicators view. He was concerned that his call with Close 
Brothers in April 2018 hadnt been located.  He reiterated that on this call he was told his 
agreement had been terminated but this wasnt the case. He said he had offered to make a 
payment but was told it was too late but this wasnt the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Mr W has raised concerns that certain call recordings havent been  provided, specifically the 
call in April 2018. However  Close Brothers has said that no call recordings are available  for 
Ref: DRN46583242the department that handled Mr Ws account.  It has provided copies of its system  notes  
which provide a log of all calls and contact and also notes when calls have taken place. 
I understand that Mr W feels the call should  have been provided but as they arent available  I 
have considered the case based on the information  provided. And I feel I have enough to 
come to a decision.
Mr W made the payments  due under this agreement from January  2014 until November 
2017 (aside from a couple of payments which were missed and then corrected). From 
November 2017,  a number of payments were  missed.  Mr W has explained he was made 
redundant and I can see from Close Brothers system notes that conversations were  taking 
place around this time about Mr Ws new job and payment dates.
Mr W says that calls werent always returned however, based on the notes  it appears  that 
Close Brothers did try to get in touch with Mr W on several occasions to follow up on his 
calls. Unfortunately it was often unable to make contact.
In March 2018, Mr W called Close Brothers  and the outstanding amount on his account was 
discussed. Mr W explained  his employment situation and weekly  income  and said that he 
still needed the car. On this call Mr W said that he would be paid on 16 March and would be 
able to make  a contribution to the outstanding  balance on his account. It was explained that 
payment for more  than a month would be required.
I have looked  through  the statement of account and there was no payment  made  until 31 
March at which point  the regular payment was taken. Given the missed  payments on Mr Ws 
account I dont  find it unreasonable that a termination  letter  was issued in April 2018.
Following receipt of the termination letter Mr W contacted Close Brothers saying  he had 
been waiting for it to contact him about payment. It is not clear from the notes taken from the 
March call whether a call back  was required.  However accepting that this didnt  take place, 
given Mr W had said he would be making a payment on 16 March I think  it would  have been  
reasonable that he would have got in touch with Close Brothers, as he had on other 
occasions, when  the payment wasnt made or to discuss his payment amount. 
Close Brothers called Mr W back and I can see that on this call he was told his account  had 
been terminated and would require  full settlement. An explanation of the reasons  for 
termination was provided. There was then a discussion about Mr W possibly  selling the car 
and it was agreed that he would be given time to arrange this. Mr W said he would call back  
on Monday about  this. I think  this shows Close Brothers were trying to work with Mr W and 
provide him with the time he needed. However,  Mr W didnt contact Close  Brothers and I can 
see that the termination was issued on 1 May 2018. 
I understand that Mr W is upset that he was told his agreement had been terminated in April 
2018 but based on the call notes it appears he was also told that time would be given for him 
to consider the issue of selling the car. This delayed the termination  until 1 May at which  
point the termination was issued and while it wasnt signed until June I accept that the usual 
process was followed  at this time.
Overall, while  I appreciate Mr Ws comments about  how he would have acted had he not 
been told the agreement was terminated  in April, I find, on balance that this wouldnt have 
changed things.  He was told he would be given time to consider the sale and he didnt 
Ref: DRN46583243respond as he said he would. He had missed  a number of payments on his account and so I 
dont find I can say Close Brothers did anything wrong by taking the actions it did.
Based on the above, I do not uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4658324