K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains that TSB Bank  plc reduced the credit limit on her credit card account 
because of missed payments that werent  her fault.  
background
Ms G had a credit  card with TSB. Towards  the end of September  2018 she made a large 
balance transfer  payment,  and then another smaller one quickly after that. These were made 
to pay her TSB card,  and sent from a different credit card account, held with another bank.  
Ms G has complained to us about what that other  bank did too, and I will complete a 
separate decision about that for her. But I cant  name her other bank here. So Ill just refer to 
it as her other bank.  
The payments that Ms G made were  supposed to clear the balance  on her TSB credit card 
account. But they didnt go through. It turned out that there was a system  problem  with her 
other bank,  and so the payment wasnt made  until six weeks  later.  
While this money was missing, Ms G didnt make the minimum payments onto her TSB 
credit card account. She also took a payment  holiday for two months from her mortgage with 
TSB, and extended her TSB overdraft,  both of which cost her money  in extra  charges.    
Ms G has paid extra interest on her credit  card while the balance  transfer  money was 
missing. And TSB has also reduced  her credit  limit. 
Her other bank has accepted that the failure to make the two payments was its mistake. 
TSB told us that Ms G had said a balance transfer  was requested  from her other  bank on 24 
September 2018, but it didnt go through. She apparently knew  that at the start of October. 
But TSB said it would expect that Ms G would still make minimum payments onto her 
account, until the balance transfer  funds came through,  and she hadnt done that. She didnt 
make any payment for September or October. 
Ms Gs statements  also show that she stopped  using the card on 30 September,  and didnt 
use it again until after 14 November,  when she cleared her full balance.  She started  to use 
the card again  after that, and her balance  was just under £1,800 on 4 December.  
TSB said that it had written to Ms G on 4 December 2018 to say that it was reducing the 
available credit on her card from £7,100 to £1,850. Ms G said she didnt get that letter  until 
10 December. By that time she was already over her new limit. She carried on using the 
card on 11 December. TSB hasnt told us if it cancelled  the card then, but it showed  us that it 
wrote to Ms G on 11 December asking her to cut up her card. 
TSB said it took into account a number of factors when it decided  to reduce Ms Gs credit 
limit. It did say that it thought that the missing payments had played a part in that decision. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that it wasnt  TSBs fault that the 
balance transfer  money  hadnt arrived. And she thought  that TSB was entitled to reduce 
Ms Gs credit  limit. She said that the missing balance transfer money wasnt the only reason 
that had happened.  
Ref: DRN42291792Our investigator didnt  think that TSB had to do anything more now.
Ms G didnt agree with that. She said that we hadnt  looked at what role TSB had played in 
the transfer going wrong. And she said that the problem  with the missing money, and the 
consequences that followed,  werent her fault. She wanted everything put back  the way it 
was before. 
Ms G wanted an ombudsman to consider her complaint so this case  was passed  to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator.
We know that it wasnt TSBs fault that the balance transfer payments that Ms G asked her 
other bank  to send  to TSB went missing.  It wasnt Ms Gs fault either. Her other bank says 
that it got this wrong. 
I understand that Ms G faced considerable financial difficulties while this money was 
missing. But because I dont think that was TSBs fault, I dont think  it should have to pay for 
that. So I wont ask it to pay anything towards any overdraft  charges, extra  credit card 
interest, or extra mortgage  interest  due as a result of her payment holiday. 
Ms G said that the missing money wasnt her fault,  and that none of the things that went  
wrong as a result were her fault either.  So she wanted everything put back the way it was 
before. She wanted TSB to put her credit card limit back up. 
I recognise that such a large amount of money  going missing would have been a serious  
worry for Ms G. But I also understand, from other things  that Ms G has told us about  her 
financial situation at the time, that it may already have been  difficult  before that happened.  
She was using this TSB credit card to meet daily expenses at the time, and had planned to 
pay her mortgage using a credit card.  
Although I think the missing money mustve  made  an already  very difficult situation worse,  I 
do have to bear in mind  that Ms G didnt make the minimum  payment on her TSB credit card 
during September or October. Her statements dated 4 October  2018 and 4 November 2018 
show she made no payment at all during those months.  
I realise that Ms G may have been  expecting her balance transfer  to cover the payments. 
But she knew by very early October that the money  had gone missing.  And shes 
unfortunately still responsible for making  sure that her minimum payments were met. 
Because those  minimum payments werent made  in those two months, I dont think that I 
can say that TSB acted  unfairly or unreasonably  when  it reduced Ms Gs credit card limit. 
This reduction in Ms Gs credit card limit happened  quite quickly,  and this left her over her 
credit card limit. But at least some  of the spending which left Ms G over her limit seems  to 
have been spending which happened after TSB told Ms G that it was reducing her limit, and 
after she told us that she received TSBs letter about  this. So I dont think that Ms G was 
Ref: DRN42291793then over her new credit  card limit solely because of anything that TSB, or her other  bank, 
had done.
TSBs initial review of Ms Gs credit limit may have been prompted by the mistake made by 
her other bank. I know that Ms G said that she wanted TSB to reinstate  her previous limit. 
But our service wont usually tell banks that they have to lend people more money. And think 
it would  be inappropriate  to for me to depart from that usual approach in this case, given 
what has happened since. So I wont tell TSB to reinstate Ms Gs previous credit limit. 
Ive been very sorry to hear about the family circumstances which  seem  to have originally 
caused Ms Gs financial problems. I hope  that shes now been able to resolve  the financial 
difficulties shes faced.  
I know that Ms G will be disappointed by this, but I dont think her complaint against TSB 
should be upheld.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4229179