K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
to Mr L. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000 . The policy was sold to 
Mr L by phone after he had initially  applied  for the card in a meeting. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  Barclays  disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered everything Barclays has said,  but Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
This is because, in my view, it isnt clear that Barclays made Mr L aware the PPI was 
optional. I say this because Mr L has said the PPI was added without his knowledge or 
consent, and Barclays hasnt been able to present evidence  showing that it gave Mr L a fair 
choice about taking the PPI during the phone call when it says the PPI was sold,  or that he 
then chose to have it. On the card application form, filled in at the branch about  two weeks  
earlier, Mr L hadnt ticked to take out PPI. This, to my mind, does suggest he didnt want  it as 
long as he believed  he had a choice. 
Barclays has said the account was opened  on 7 February and that Mr L agreed to have PPI 
by phone on 17 February. It says Mr L would  have had the card in his possession  by the 
17th, and so he would have been  aware  that the PPI was a separate product and it [was]  not 
a condition to obtain the credit card. However,  even after he got the card, at some stage 
Mr L would  have had to phone Barclays to activate the account  and Barclays  are unable 
to say whether  the PPI sale happened  during  that call or later on. 
I think it is more  likely than not this activation  call was when the PPI was added  to the 
account  and if so, Mr L could  still by then have been unsure whether he could successfully 
activate the account if he didnt take PPI. Barclays has been  unable to present  a call 
recording or script to show  me what its adviser  said or is likely  to have said to Mr L about 
PPI during that phone  call. And Ive seen no evidence that hed activated  or used the card 
before he was sold the PPI.
So, taking everything  into account, I think its most likely that Mr L didnt willingly agree to the 
PPI that was added  to his account, knowing he had a choice. I think  he lost out, as a result. 
fair compensation
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put Mr L in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt 
taken out PPI.
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
Ref: DRN49285902A.Barclays should find out how much Mr L would owe on his credit  card if the policy  hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr L owes and what  he would 
have owed.
If Mr L made  a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when Barclays works out what Mr L would have owed each month  without PPI  Mr L 
paid more than enough to clear  his balance, Barclays should also pay simple  interest  on 
the extra Mr L paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr L 
would have owed  Barclays something  on his credit  card.  The interest  rate should be 8% 
a year.
C.Barclays should tell Mr L what its done to work out A and B.
D.In making its calculation Barclays may deduct  any refund it has already made  in relation 
to commission or profit  share. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  
Barclays must give Mr L a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks 
for one.
I understand Mr L has been  in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement  (IVA). His former IVA 
supervisor has expressed an interest in any compensation  Mr L might receive. Mr L and 
Barclays should bear in mind Mr Ls obligations under that IVA in respect  of any 
compensation and make  sure it is paid to the right person(s). A copy  of this decision will be 
sent to his former IVA supervisor.
Ref: DRN49285903my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
I require Barclays Bank  UK PLC to pay Mr L compensation in accordance  with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4928590