K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains that Mobile Money Limited  (MML) lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
background
Ms H was given nine loans by MML between February 2008  and October  2016. The loans 
fell into two distinct chains  as can be seen in the table below. Each of the loans was secured 
against Ms Hs car. I understand that she gave her vehicle  up to repay the loan 4. Many of 
Ms Hs loans refinanced  her previous borrowing,  but all of the loans have now been repaid. 
A summary  of Ms Hs borrowing from MML is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  Length 
of Loan 
(Months)
1 26/02/2008 06/08/2008 £ 545 6
2 21/10/2008 Refinanced £ 400 6
3 24/02/2009 Refinanced £ 735 6
4 14/08/2009 29/01/2010 £ 662 6
5 21/03/2014 Refinanced £ 200 12
6 18/07/2014 Refinanced £ 291 12
7 17/06/2015 Refinanced £ 503 12
8 22/07/2015 Refinanced £ 650 18
9 17/10/2016 03/11/2017 £ 650 18
Ms Hs complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He wasnt  able to conclude 
that the checks MML had done before agreeing  any of the loans were  proportionate. And he 
thought that better checks would have resulted in MML refusing Ms Hs request for 
loans 3, 4, 8, and 9. So he asked  MML to pay Ms H some compensation.
Disappointingly MML didnt respond to that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been  passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last 
stage of our process.  If Ms H accepts my decision  it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Ms Hs complaint.
Best practice at the time of the first four loans, and the rules  and regulations  at the time MML 
gave the later loans  to Ms H, required it to carry out a reasonable and proportionate  
assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she owed in a sustainable manner. 
This assessment is sometimes referred  to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
Ref: DRN49827552The checks  had to be borrower focused   so MML had to think about whether repaying  the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Ms H. In practice this 
meant that MML had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Ms H undue 
difficulty or adverse  consequences.  In other  words,  it wasnt enough for MML to simply  think  
about the likelihood of it getting its money  back,  it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Ms H. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. And there may 
even come a point where the lending history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking 
about whether  MML did what  it needed to before agreeing to lend to Ms H.
As I said earlier,  MMLs lending to Ms H formed two distinct chains. I will deal with each 
chain of lending  separately.
Loans 1 to 4
Given the time that has passed MML no longer holds any specific  information  about these 
loans. But Ms H has been able to provide me with account statements for each loan that 
show their details. Based on its normal lending practices at the time MML says it would have  
gathered some information from Ms H before it agreed the loans. It says that at that time it 
asked consumers for details of their income,  and their normal expenditure. And if necessary 
it then obtained  further supporting evidence such as bank statements.
Ms H was entering into a significant commitment with MML. The monthly repayments she 
agreed to make formed a reasonable proportion  of her income. So I think  that it would have 
been proportionate for MML to gather, and independently check,  some  detailed information 
about Ms Hs financial  circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. Without evidence  that 
these sorts  of checks were performed I cannot  conclude that the checks MML did were  
enough. 
Ref: DRN49827553But although  I dont  think the checks MML did before agreeing  the loan were sufficient, that 
in itself doesnt mean that Ms Hs complaint should  succeed. Id also need to be persuaded 
that what I consider  to be proportionate checks would have shown MML that Ms H couldnt 
sustainably afford the repayments. 
I have seen copies  of Ms Hs bank  statements  from around the time of the first two loans. 
They dont show any obvious signs  of financial problems  such as escalating  levels  of 
overdraft, a large number  of unpaid transactions, or loans being taken from multiple other 
lenders. So I cannot  conclude  that proportionate checks would have  reasonably resulted in 
MML declining Ms Hs application for the first two loans.
But Ms H appears to have  faced  problems making  her repayments on the first two loans. 
A number  of her repayments were late and she incurred additional charges as a result.  So 
I think that when  Ms H asked to refinance  her second loan part way through its term that 
should have led MML to conclude that she was most  likely facing significant  problems  
managing her money, and was unlikely to be repaying her borrowing in a sustainable 
manner. 
And I think the same applies  to the fourth loan. Ms Hs repayment history on loan 3 remained 
erratic, with many payments being  either late, or declined, or both. By the time she asked 
MML to refinance her borrowing with loan 4 she was approaching  the end of the agreed  six 
month term, however her outstanding  balance was barely reduced from her original 
borrowing.
So I dont  think it was reasonable,  having  considered Ms Hs pattern of borrowing and her 
repayment history, to conclude that she would  be likely to be able to repay  loans 3 and 4 in a 
sustainable manner.
Loans 5 to 9
MML has shown us that it gathered some information from Ms H before  it agreed these 
loans. It asked her for details of her income,  and her normal  expenditure. And before some 
of the loans it asked for copies of her payslips or bank  statements to verify the income shed 
declared.
As before Ms H was entering  into significant  commitments with MML. She would need to 
make monthly repayments  for period of between 12 and 18 months.. So again I think that it 
would have been proportionate for MML to gather, and independently  check, some detailed  
information about Ms Hs financial  circumstances before  it agreed  to lend to her. I dont think  
that the checks it did were  enough.  
But although  I dont  think the checks MML did before agreeing  the loans were sufficient, that 
in itself doesnt mean that Ms Hs complaint should  succeed. Id also need to be persuaded 
that what I consider  to be proportionate checks would have shown MML that Ms H couldnt 
sustainably afford the repayments. So Ive looked  at Ms Hs bank statements, and what 
shes told us about her financial situation,  to see what better  checks  would have shown 
MML.
As before Ms Hs bank statements dont show any obvious signs of financial problems such 
as escalating levels of overdraft, a large  number of unpaid transactions, or loans being taken 
from multiple other lenders. But once again I think that it is the pattern of Ms Hs borrowing 
that should have caused the most concern to MML.
Ref: DRN49827554Each of the first four loans Ms H took in this chain  of lending was repaid by being refinanced 
by some new borrowing. And that refinancing  often  took place well before the planned end 
date of the loan.  The amounts being borrowed by Ms H were steadily increasing and her 
indebtedness to MML was showing no signs of being under control.
When Ms H asked for loan 8 shed been borrowing in this chain for over 16 months.  Her 
previous loan had run for little over a month of the planned twelve  month  term. I think  by that 
time it should have  been clear to MML that Ms H was once again facing significant  problems  
managing her money, and was unlikely to be repaying her borrowing in a sustainable 
manner. So I dont  think that MML should have  agreed to given Ms H loans 8 or 9.
In summary  I dont think the checks MML did before  agreeing  any of the loans were 
proportionate. And I think that the pattern of Ms Hs borrowing was such that MML should 
have declined Ms Hs applications for loans 3, 4, 8, and 9. MML needs  to pay Ms H some  
compensation.
putting things right
I dont think MML should have agreed to give loans 3, 4, 8, and 9 (as shown in the earlier 
table) to Ms H. So for each of those  loans MML should;
refund  all the interest and charges Ms H paid on the loans,  including any charges 
relating to the sale of her vehicle. 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
I think the patterns  of borrowing  leading up to these loans mean  any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So all entries  about loans 3, 4, 8, and 9 should be 
removed from Ms Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MML to take off tax from this interest. MML must give 
Ms H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
In deciding this compensation I have carefully  considered that Ms H surrendered  her car to 
repay loan 4. But that event took place more than ten years ago. And given the substantial  
time that has passed I dont think it is reasonable, or practical, to consider whether the sale 
of that vehicle achieved its fair market value. So I am not making any additional  award to 
reflect the sale of the vehicle except  for what Ive said above  - directing MML to refund any 
charges that Ms H paid as a result of the sale.
Ref: DRN49827555my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Ms Hs complaint and direct  Mobile  Money Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 January 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4982755