K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to decline a claim on her travel 
insurance policy.
background
Miss S was due to go on holiday  on 21 October  2018. Whilst shopping  on 19 October her 
passport was lost, she says possibly stolen. She contacted the travel company who said she 
may be able to join the holiday  later if she was able to get a replacement passport so it 
would hold her booking open. On 20 October  contacted AXA to see if she could claim on her 
travel insurance policy as she wouldnt be able to get a new passport in time. AXA told her 
that loss of a passport wasnt covered under her policy  so it declined her claim. Without  a 
passport, Miss S had to cancel her trip.
On 23 October Miss S says she was feeling unwell and contacted her doctor. He said she 
had flu and shouldnt travel for 7 days. She thought AXA should cover  the cancelled  trip on 
this basis as illness was covered and she said her symptoms had started  on 19 October. But 
AXA maintained it was declining her claim because she wasnt able to travel due to not 
having a passport. Miss S made  a complaint about this and also about how she was spoken 
to by AXA staff. AXA didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint so she referred it to us.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She said that Miss S couldnt have 
obtained a new passport  in time to join her holiday at a later date. And the lost passport was 
the initial reason  Miss S tried to claim on her travel  insurance. The fact that she was later 
diagnosed with flu didnt  mean she was now covered.
Miss S didnt agree. She said she planned  to join her holiday later but wasnt able to as she 
would have been travelling against a doctors  advice. She asked for an ombudsman  to look 
at her complaint. So its been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Miss S has raised a number of points  in her complaint to us and in response to our 
investigators opinion.  Ive considered everything shes  said, but due to the informal  nature of 
this service, I wont address every  point shes made. Instead Ill focus on the crux of her 
complaint  AXA declining her travel  insurance  claim   and the reasons for my decision.
Im sorry  to hear Miss S lost her passport, or had it stolen,  and because  of this couldnt go on 
her holiday.  This must be upsetting for her. But AXA is correct in saying its policy  doesnt 
cover Miss S for the cost of the holiday due to her losing her passport. So it isnt required to 
pay her claim  on this basis.
Miss Ss insurance policy does cover her if she were  to cancel  the holiday due to illness. So I 
need to decide whether Miss Ss later diagnosis  of the flu should mean her claim is covered.
Ref: DRN43261122Ive seen evidence  to show Miss S did seek medical  advice on 23 October. But this was two 
days after she shouldve gone  on her holiday.  It doesnt seem that Miss S thought  the 
symptoms were serious enough to go to the doctor  until after she shouldve  gone on the 
holiday. And I think its most likely  she wouldve gone on the holiday on the date originally 
planned had she not lost her passport  despite  her already experiencing some symptoms of 
what turned  out to be flu. Whilst Miss S says she then didnt join her holiday at a later stage 
because of the doctors advice, she wouldnt have been able to join her holiday at a later 
date even if she wasnt ill because it wouldnt  have  been possible to get a replacement 
passport in time. Although  Miss S has said she mightve  found  her passport, she also 
explained the steps shed  taken to try to find it. And the chances  of her finding  it seemed 
very remote - and from what shes said, she didnt find it in time.
Considering everything  I have, I think the initial reason Miss S had to cancel her holiday was 
due to losing  her passport. And as this isnt covered by her insurance policy, it was right to 
decline her claim. The fact that she was diagnosed  with flu after losing  her passport  whilst 
she was still without a passport  and unable to travel  - doesnt mean she should then be 
covered.
Miss S has also complained about how AXA dealt with her, in particular her interaction  with 
AXA staff.  She says she felt interrogated.  AXA wouldve needed to ask relevant questions to 
assess her claim  and I havent seen any evidence to show anything it asked was 
inappropriate.
my final decision
I know Miss S feels very strongly about this matter, and Im sorry to disappoint her, but my 
final decision  is I dont uphold her complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4326112