K821x#15complaint
Miss P has complained  that Admiral  Insurance Company Limited  unfairly cancelled  her
motor insurance policy  and refused to pay her claim.
background
Miss P said she bought  her policy online, using  the computer of the person she bought the
car from.  She was later involved in an accident and claimed on her policy. While Admiral
was looking into her claim it found  some of the details Miss P had given when  buying  the
policy were the same  as a number of other policyholders. It said all the policies had been  set
up by the same person and the quotes were  all done using that persons email  address.
Admiral checked the answers Miss P had given. It found that shed incorrectly  said her car
was parked on a drive  overnight and that she had more than one car in the household.
Admiral said Miss P had used a ghost broker when setting up her policy and the ghost
broker had deliberately misrepresented on her behalf. It said the terms of the policy allowed
it to cancel the policy where someone  has deliberately misrepresented on her behalf. So,
Admiral cancelled her policy with seven days notice. Admiral  gave Miss P her premium back
but said as it had cancelled the policy it wouldnt pay her claim and would look to recover
from her any money it paid out to third parties.
Miss P didnt think this was fair and complained.  Admiral maintained it had correctly
cancelled her policy and declined her claim. It also said it had sent Miss P her documents to
check after shed bought the policy and she hadnt  noticed the information wasnt  correct.
So, Miss P brought her complaint to us. She said shed input the details herself  when buying
the policy while her husband, the person shed bought the car from and his wife were sat
next to her. She said she thought shed provided the correct information.
Miss P told us that not having her car had impacted on her job as she hadnt  been able to
get to appointments. She said it had led to health  problems which further  impacted  her ability
to work. Miss P also said shed had to pay a lot more for a new policy due to having had her
policy cancelled.
Admiral told us that the policy  would have cost more if Miss P had given the correct
information when  she bought it.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 March 2020, where I explained what  
Admiral needed  to do to put things right. In that decision I said:
The terms and conditions  of Miss Ps policy say that if she, or anyone acting for her,
recklessly or deliberately  misrepresents information  at any time during the policy that would
impact on the terms and conditions or affect Admirals ability to offer cover,  then the policy
will be cancelled  or voided. Ive thought about  whether Admirals applied this term fairly and
reasonably in Miss Ps case and I dont think it has. Ill now explain why.
In this decision Im only going  to consider  Miss Ps answer in relation to where the car was
parked overnight. Thats because Admiral has said if shed provided the correct number of
cars in the household, it wouldnt have affected  its ability to offer cover.
Im pleased to see Admiral has agreed to pay Miss Ps claim. I think thats  fair and
reasonable - as the policy was in force at the time of the accident so Admiral should have
Ref: DRN45014132paid the claim. If in paying the claim Admiral provide Miss P with a cash settlement, it should
add interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of the accident  to the date it
makes payment, as this is money she should  have had sooner.
Miss P has been consistent in what shes told us about how she bought  her policy.  She said
she used the computer of the person she bought  her car from as she needed to have
insurance before driving the car home. She said she and her husband  were  sat at the
computer with the person selling the car and his wife. Shes  told us she used a comparison
website and input  the details herself. Ive listened  to the call between Admiral  and Miss P
and didnt hear anything in that call that suggested  the person selling the car input the 
details for her.
Miss P said she thought  shed given the correct answers. But the motor policy  schedule
shows that the car was kept on the driveway  overnight.  So, I think its likely Miss P did give
the wrong information when buying her policy.
I understand that when logging into an account  on the comparison website  Miss P used, the
website pre-populates the fields of a new quote with the details used in the previous quote. I
appreciate that Miss P doesnt remember any fields being pre-populated  but given that the
quote was done using  the seller of the cars email address, I think thats most likely what
happened here. And I think Miss P was careless  in not checking  shed changed  all the
necessary details. But Im not persuaded that she deliberately provided the wrong 
information. I appreciate  there were a number of other policyholders that had given the same
information but only two answers  were found to be incorrect in Miss Ps case. From what
shes said she wanted to make sure she was covered in order  to drive the car home. And I
can also see that Miss P selected business use. I think its unlikely she would have done  this
if she was deliberately providing  incorrect  information to reduce her premium.
I can understand why Admiral might not have wanted to cover Miss P going forward, as she
hadnt paid the correct  premium for her policy. But given the implications of having a policy
cancelled, in these  circumstances,  where  Im satisfied that Miss P has only been careless, I
dont think its fair and reasonable for Admiral to cancel her policy  without giving her the
option of cancelling it herself first. I think if Admiral had given Miss P the option of cancelling
her policy herself, instead of it cancelling it, its most  likely she would have taken that option.
So, to put things right I think  Admiral  should record the cancellation as though Miss P had
cancelled it. It should also update  any internal or external databases  to show Miss P hasnt
had a policy cancelled  or deliberately misrepresented.
Miss P has told us about the impact  this has had on her health  and job. I havent seen
enough to persuade me that any lost earnings are a result of Admiral  cancelling her policy
and turning down  her claim. But I do accept that shes  had the distress  of her claim being
unfairly turned down  and the inconvenience  of being  without a car. I agree with our
investigator that £500 is a fair and reasonable amount for Admiral to pay to reflect the
unnecessary distress and inconvenience it caused  her. When coming to this amount, Ive
also taken into account that Admiral  has agreed to pay the claim in full.
I understand Miss Ps car has been kept in private  storage, at a cost of around £50 per
month, as she has nowhere  else to keep it. As Admiral  should have paid the claim it should
also reimburse her for these costs, on receipt of an invoice from Miss P showing shes  paid
this. If Miss P has already paid any of this Admiral should add interest  to this amount at a
rate of 8% simple per year from the date Miss P paid to the date it makes payment.
Ref: DRN45014133Miss P accepted  my provisional  decision, but Admiral didnt reply. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive received  no further comments,  I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I uphold this complaint and 
require Admiral Insurance Company  Limited  to:
Pay Miss Ps claim subject to the remaining terms  and conditions  of her policy.  If this
results in a cash settlement it should add interest  at 8% simple  per year from the 
date of the accident to the date it makes payment1;
Pay Miss P £500 compensation;
Record the policy as being cancelled by Miss P and amend any records  on internal
            or external  databases to reflect this;
Reimburse Miss Ps storage costs if shes able to provide an invoice showing shes
            paid for these.  If Miss P has already paid any storage costs  Admiral should add
            interest to this amount at a rate of 8% simple  per year from the date Miss P paid to
            the date it makes  payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
1 If Admiral considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  it 
should tell Miss P how much  its taken off. It should also give Miss P a certificate showing this if she asks for one, 
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4501413