K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains Barclays  Bank  UK PLC didnt  acknowledge a complaint he made  about  a 
Section 75 claim. And he says it harassed  him by making phone calls when hed asked not 
to be contacted by this means. He wants compensation.
background
Mr W tells us he wasnt satisfied with goods  and services which  hed paid for on credit 
supplied by Barclays. So on 30 May 2018  he made a claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  He says Barclays didnt acknowledge this claim and so he 
started a complaint  using the Resolver  app. Mr W says he received  several  phone  calls from 
Barclays despite having asked not to be contacted in this way. He thinks  this amounts to 
harassment. And he feels Barclays refusal to use Resolver was an attempt to avoid 
acknowledging receipt of his Section 75 claim so as to save future costs in relation to it. Mr 
W tells us he considers that when Barclays subsequently paid £101.36 into his account in 
respect of his Section 75 claim it did so as a bribe.  And he considers the complaint as yet to 
be actioned .
Barclays said it had paid £50 by way of an apology  for contacting Mr W by phone. And that It 
had clearly explained the payment of £101.36 had been in relation to the dispute he had 
raised under Section  75. It said it had paid this in attempt  to resolve the complaint. It said it 
didnt consider the Resolver app to be a secure  means of communication  and had taken  a 
business wide decision not to use it.
The investigator did not recommend this complaint should be upheld.  He thought Barclays  
had made  a mistake  on the account which it had then tried to put right with an apology and 
£50 compensation.  He felt this was adequate.
Mr W did not agree and feels the investigators view was biased  in favour of Barclays. As its 
not been possible to resolve the complaint an ombudsman has been  asked to make the final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr W has experienced the degree  of upset and dissatisfaction he obviously feels  
about the way his complaint has been  dealt with by both Barclays and this service.
I can assure him that we are an independent, evidence-based service which  tries to treat all 
the parties to a complaint  with fairness  and respect. But its not always possible to reach a 
decision with which both parties to a complaint are satisfied.  And its not unusual for the 
party which perceives it has not achieved the outcome it desired to think  this might be 
caused by factors  other than the weight of evidence.
Its also important to be aware that this service is itself subject to legislation and rules  which  
limit the nature  and degree of our enquiries.  
I should make clear that Im not looking at the claim which Mr W made to Barclays under 
Section 75. Im dealing only with the subsequent  complaint about the way Barclays handled 
the processing of that claim.
Ref: DRN48077142And where  evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory - as some of it here - I make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. That is I decide what  I think is the most likely  
explanation for whats happened.
As we are not the financial  industry regulator  - thats the Financial Conduct Authority - I cant  
tell a business how to operate. Nor can I instruct Barclays what means  of communication  it 
must - or must not use - in dealings  with its customers. So I cant  say Barclays  is not entitled 
to refuse  to use a means of communication - Resolver- which it does not consider to be 
secure. Whether it is correct in that view or not is again something I have no authority to 
comment upon.
Im also not able to look into complaints of alleged  criminal conduct  or to decide if an offence 
has been committed. So its not for me to decide if the fact that Barclays made unwanted 
telephone calls to Mr W amounts to harassment  - although Ive not seen evidence  which  
would support such a conclusion.
The evidence shows that Mr W made a complaint to Barclays on 30 May 2018 which 
Barclays received on 4 June 2018.  On 7 June Mr W made a further  complaint as he had not 
by then received  an acknowledgement  of his original complaint. 
I think this was premature  and I would not expect  a business to respond in such  a short time. 
Its only reasonable it has time to make a considered response.  Otherwise it would lay itself 
open to accusations of not treating a customer complaint with seriousness. Or of not making  
sufficient enquires to address the issues raised.  So I dont think  Barclays  was at fault in not 
responding sooner than it did. 
Barclays sent its final response letter on 14 June which Mr W says he did not receive. And 
Mr W has also cast doubt on the authenticity  of this letter and suggested Barclays has 
deliberately delayed his Section 75 complaint. But theres no evidence to support this - and 
indeed what evidence there is shows that Barclays tried to deal with Mr Ws complaint 
promptly. It may be that the way in which this was done was not what Mr W expected  and it 
could have been explained more  clearly. 
Its not Barclays fault if a third party fails to deliver  mail and - as Ive seen a copy  of the letter  
- Im sure it was written  with the genuine  intention of progressing the complaint  as quickly as 
possible. Its contents include reference to receiving Mr Ws original complaint as well as his 
contact on 7 June.  And it goes on to explain how Barclays has reviewed his Section 75 
claim. It mentions the payment of £101.36 as a gesture of goodwill - even though it did not 
think Section 75 applied. So not only do I think Barclays acknowledged Mr Ws complaint  I 
think it tried to deal with it in the way it thought most beneficial to him.
Mr W had requested no phone contact in his original  complaint and Barclays  admitted an 
error in trying to contact  him in this way. Whilst this mistake was regrettable,  Ive see no 
evidence of the barrage of calls to which Mr W refers. And I havent seen evidence  that 
Barclays was expressly  informed as to the importance of this restriction on contact - which  
arises due to health issues  affecting  Mr W. However, its enquiry into Mr Ws Section 75 
complaint appears  to have overlooked a letter he had sent to the retailer involved in that 
matter in which the issue is mentioned.
Ref: DRN48077143Not every error by a business requires compensation and where  compensation is awarded  it 
is intended to be a measure of redress for the consumer  - not a punishment  for the business.
Barclays acknowledged its error quickly and has confirmed it will take steps to make  its 
representatives aware that Mr W does not wish phone  contact. This, together  with the 
apology and £50 compensation, is in my view a fair and reasonable resolution of this 
complaint. 
Whilst I know it will disappoint Mr W, I shant  be asking  Barclays  to do anything else and I 
am not upholding  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4807714