K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that Highway Insurance Company Limited (HICL) unfairly cancelled her 
van insurance policy. 
For ease, reference  to HICL will also include its agent.
background
Mrs M bought her policy at the end of August 2018.  On 18 September  HICL contacted her 
previous insurer to verify the amount of no-claims discount (NCD) shed declared. HICL said 
her previous  insurer confirmed she had seven years NCD and not the nine shed declared. 
So, on 21 September it sent her a letter saying her policy would be cancelled  seven  days  
later.
Mrs M called  HICL  on 24 September and said shed speak to her previous insurer  to sort 
things out. Mrs M provided  her NCD from a few years before but HICL  wouldnt accept this. 
It spoke to Mrs M on 28 September and said it asked her to get back  in touch by the end of 
the day.
HICL said it didnt hear back from Mrs M so extended the time for her to respond  until            
8 October. It said it tried to contact her by phone and left messages for her. When  it didnt 
receive a reply, it cancelled her policy on 8 October.
Mrs M was unhappy with HICL and complained.  She said she did have nine years NCD and 
HICL should have accepted the information shed provided from previous insurers.  She said 
HICL hadnt told her it had extended the deadline  until 8 October  and also hadnt given her 
any notice that it was going to cancel the policy. She provided a copy of the NCD from her 
previous insurer.
HICL said the letter shed provided  from her previous insurer said she had eight years NCD. 
So, thought  it was still right to cancel her policy as it couldnt get in touch to ask her to pay 
the additional premium.
Mrs M remained unhappy and brought her complaint to us. She said she had fifteen years  
NCD but the highest option available to declare when she bought the policy  was nine.  She 
said shed initially had problems  getting insurance with the cancellation on her record but 
had since found  an insurer  who accepted  her NCD was valid.  So, she thought HICL should 
have accepted it as well. She said HICL didnt let her know her policy was cancelled until the 
9 October which meant she was driving uninsured for a day.
Our investigator thought Mrs M had incorrectly declared nine years NCD when she only had 
eight. She thought HICL was entitled to ultimately  cancel her policy  as it couldnt  get in touch 
with her. Mrs M didnt  agree. She still thought she had declared the correct amount of NCD 
and didnt think HICL  had fairly  explained  what proof  of NCD it would accept when it sold her 
the policy. She also said it hadnt  been  clear about when her policy would be cancelled  and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN43369322Mrs Ms made a number of detailed  points and I hope she doesnt take it as a discourtesy  
that Im going to focus on what I consider to be the central issues of her complaint. 
Under the Insurance Act 2015,  when  Mrs M bought  her policy  she had a duty to make a fair 
presentation of risk to the insurer. And for HICL to take any action against Mrs M it needed 
to show that she didnt do that and that she made whats known as a qualifying  breach. 
Ive listened to the call where  she bought  her policy and she was asked how many years 
NCD she has. Mrs M answered nine. The information Ive seen from Mrs Ms previous 
insurer says she has eight  years  NCD. There seems to be some confusion  because HICL 
thought she had seven years, rather than eight.  But I dont think  that matters  because Mrs M 
still hadnt declared the correct amount of years NCD.
I understand Mrs Ms new insurer has accepted she had a higher level of NCD. But from my 
experience, its usual for insurers to take proof of a policyholders NCD from their latest  
insurer. So, based  on that information I think its fair for HICL to say Mrs M didnt have nine 
years NCD and so didnt make a fair presentation of the risk. Its also for that reason that I 
dont think HICL needed to go into more detail  than it did about what it would need  to see as 
proof of NCD.
I recognise Mrs Ms strength  of feeling  that she has more than nine years  NCD and she can 
complain separately,  if she wishes, about  how her NCD has been calculated  in the past by 
previous insurers. 
In order to become  a qualifying breach HICL needs to show  that it would either not have sold 
Mrs M the policy,  or would have  done so on different terms, if Mrs M had answered correctly.  
Its said it would have  charged her a higher  premium  and so contacted her to ask her to pay 
this. It said it was unable  to take the money directly as shed pay her premium in full up front. 
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ms policy say HICL can cancel Mrs Ms policy,  with seven 
days notice, where  there is a valid reason  for doing so. It gives an example of this as where 
she hasnt paid her premium or if it identifies  misrepresentation.  It also says where it 
identifies a misrepresentation it can apply an additional premium  or may cancel the policy.
As I think  Mrs M made a misrepresentation, HICL was reasonable to contact her to try to 
resolve things. I also think once it established  she didnt have nine years  NCD it was 
reasonable for it ask her if she wanted  to pay an additional premium, to ensure  she was fully 
covered going  forward. However, it didnt receive any response from Mrs M.
I understand Mrs M doesnt  think HICL made any attempt to get in touch with her after        
28 September. Shes said she wasnt given notification  of the cancellation  and it also didnt 
tell her it was extending the time she had to provide her correct proof of NCD.
I can see HICL had already written  to Mrs M telling her it would cancel her policy  on           
28 September. So, it did give her the seven days notice as set out in the policy.  Ive also 
listened to a call between Mrs M, on this date,  and the advisor told her to speak to her 
previous broker and get back in touch by the end of the day. I havent seen anything to show 
Mrs M called  HICL  back. 
Ive looked at HICLs  call notes and think it did enough to get in touch with Mrs M after she 
didnt reply. I say that because the notes say called  ph and lmoap which I think  means it 
Ref: DRN43369323called the policyholder (Mrs M) and left message on her answerphone.  This note was 
recorded on her file on 29 September, 1 October,  3 October and 8 October.  HICL  also wrote  
to her on 1 October  giving a further  seven  days notice  before it cancelled her policy. So, I 
think Mrs M should have been  aware from this that her policy would be cancelled  on             
8 October, if things  werent sorted out.
If HICL had made contact  with Mrs M after 28 September, I think  it would have  been  fair and 
reasonable for it to give her the option  to cancel her policy  before  it was cancelled, or pay 
the additional premium. But as HICL  couldnt  make contact with her, I think its decision to 
cancel her policy, in this particular case, was fair, reasonable  and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. I understand HICL refunded Mrs Ms premium  on a pro rata basis  
and didnt charge  her any additional premium for the time she was on cover, which  I think  is 
fair and reasonable. 
Mrs Ms said she drove uninsured on 9 October  because HICL didnt let her know her policy  
had been cancelled. But it had already notified  her that her policy  would be cancelled on     
28 September. A further  letter was sent on 1 October and Ive also seen an email  HICL sent 
on 8 October letting Mrs M know her policy  would  be cancelled that day. And even if Mrs M 
didnt receive those - as shes said she wasnt notified on any extension - then the last 
communication she was aware of said her policy  was due to cancel on 28 September.  So, I 
dont think HICLs to blame  for Mrs M driving uninsured. 
In summary,  I think HILs acted fairly and reasonably and Im not going  to require it to do 
anything else. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN4336932