K820x#14This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr C says National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Cs signed  credit  application.  On it there is a section related to 
PPI. The box opting for the policy has been ticked. Mr C has signed the form, so I think  
its likely  to reflect what he wanted.  On balance I think its likely NatWest made it clear 
that Mr C didnt  have  to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he no longer  remembers this.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr C got the information  he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. 
Mr C says he wouldve received some sick pay at the time the policy  was sold.  But the 
PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay he wouldve received  and for up to 12 
months if he was unable to work because of accident or sickness.  It also wouldve paid 
out for up to 12 months if he lost his job. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put him off taking out the cover. 
So I dont think Mr C has lost out as a result  of anything NatWest did wrong. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4854314