K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the way in which The Co-operative  Bank  Plc has handled his credit 
card account. Hes expressed particular concern about failures to record a change  of 
address and contact  details; unfair  charges; a default and not being told the debt was being 
sold. He wants the default removed and compensation.
background
Mr T tells us the complaint originates from the single use of a credit card in 2017. But he 
thinks the problems  started in January  2014.  Mr T advises that he moved address in January 
2012. And he says he notified the Co-op at the time.  In January 2014 he says he again  
moved home  and informed the Co-op.  At that time he explains that he discovered there  was 
no record of the earlier move in 2012.  But during  this phone call he said he confirmed all his 
latest details - including his new address - Ill refer to this as address A - along with his new 
landline and mobile phone number. So at this point he feels sure Co-op had all his up to date 
contact details.
In July 2014, Mr T says he again  moved  home - to the address he currently occupies - and 
again notified all four lenders with whom he had accounts - including  the Co-op.  In May 2017 
Mr T advises  he used  the account  for a single  transaction of just over £130. He says he 
started to repay the debt by instalments  but then overlooked it. He explains he didnt receive 
any letters  or telephone calls about the account or the arrears.
In late November 2017, Mr T tells us he became  aware that the debt on his account had 
been sold to a company Ill refer to as L. And that L had told him that the Co-op  had 
provided it with information that he was still living at his 2012 address. Mr T feels that this 
shows the Co-op had not updated  his address  from 2012 and 2014 and this would render 
any default notices  ineffective. He feels that the Co-op also failed to update  his mobile  phone  
details correctly. And so when it said it had tried to call him about the debt, and prior to the 
sale, it wouldnt have been  able to make contact.
Mr T tells us he doesnt think the Co-op should have sold the debt without first informing him. 
And he feels that its failure to update his details correctly meant  it was unable to contact him 
to alert him to the missed  payments on his account.  He says that if hed been contacted hed 
have paid off the account  and the present circumstances - including the account being 
defaulted - would have been  avoided.
The Co-op told us that it was entitled  to sell the account and had provided the latest  details it 
held about Mr T to the new debt owner. It said it had no evidence of having  been notified of a 
change of address  after January 2014  when it had recorded the previous changes.  But it 
later told us that - in a different email to L - it had also mistakenly used  details of the address  
from which Mr T had moved in 2012.
Ref: DRN41180722The Co-op said it had applied charges to the account correctly in line with the terms and 
conditions. It said Mr T had accessed  his account online on 5 June 2017 when the balance 
outstanding was £132. And it felt he was responsible for managing  the payments on his 
account.
It said it accepted  errors had been  made in the handling of Mr Ts call on 29 November2017. 
And that this offer to clear the account had not been forwarded to L, the new owner. It said it 
had sent Mr T a cheque  for £100  to acknowledge this error.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 August 2019. I indicated that I didnt 
intend to uphold the complaint. I said that I thought that the missed  payments  were due to an 
oversight on Mr Ts part. But as hed accessed  his account online and made part payments  
the fact that he hadnt received correspondence about arrears  didnt  alter things. And I didnt 
think the Co-op was responsible for his not receiving the letters  it had sent.
Since my provisional decision Mr T has not replied. Co-op replied and said it wanted to 
confirm that it had updated Mr Ts mobile phone number in 2014. I thank the Co-op for its 
reply. It doesnt affect the reasoning for my provisional view but Ill deal with this point in my 
final decision. I see no reason to alter the conclusions which  I outlined  in my provisional 
decision. So Ill repeat  them in my final decision which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from the circumstances of this complaint  that Mr T has experienced feelings  of 
annoyance and frustration. And I can understand why he feels  this way as what should be - 
in the ordinary course of events - a relatively minor issue has unfortunately contributed to a 
more serious situation. Mr T has complained about several different aspects of the Co-ops 
handling of his account, so Ill deal with these separately during my decision.
Where evidence is unclear or incomplete  - as some of it is here - I have  to make my decision 
on the balance  of probabilities. Thats to say, I decide what  I think  is the most probable 
explanation for whats happened.
Ive been provided  with a lot of information,  and if I dont refer to a particular item individually  
its not because  I havent taken it on board. Its because I dont think I need to make  specific  
reference to it in order to explain my reasons  for reaching my decision.
There are a number of key events  in this complaint, and in order  to explain my decision Ill 
refer to these and say how I think they have impacted on the circumstances of it.
I think the first crucial date is 16 January 2014. On this date its not in dispute that Mr T 
contacted the Co-op. He says it was during  this call he found  that the Co-op was unaware of 
his previous move in 2012. Co-op notes suggest  Mr T told it that he hadnt  notified it of the 
previous change - although Mr T insists he had done so. I dont need to make  any finding  on 
this issue, as its not got any direct bearing on my decision. What  is relevant is that Co-op  
recorded the fact that Mr T, at the time of the call, was then living  at address A.
Ref: DRN41180723But whilst it recorded the address change, it doesnt  appear that Mr Ts mobile phone details 
were updated. Co-op records  show a change to a landline number the area code of which 
corresponded with address A. But the record it held of Mr Ts mobile number - xxx081 - 
remained unaltered.  Ive listened  to a phone call from November  2017and  its clear the Co-
ops call handler states the last mobile  phone update was in January 2014.  But she said the 
number it held was not the number which Mr T was now using (xxx322). Mr T has provided 
information that shows he was using the mobile number xxx322 before January 2014. So 
although Co-op says it recorded the update in January 2014 I cant  agree. If it had done so 
then its not apparent why it wouldve used his old number to try to contact him during 2017. 
It seems  improbable that Mr T would have  not updated all his details during the call in 2014. 
So I think its likely that Co-op  failed to accurately record  the change  to his mobile phone  
details. But as Ill explain, I dont think this materially affects my final decision.
 
In July 2014 Mr T once  more moved  address - away from address A and to his current 
address. He says he notified the Co-op of this - but theres no record  of this call. I dont 
doubt that Mr T believes he notified all the lenders with whom he had accounts.  But as its 
five years ago and theres no other  evidence of the contact, I cant  say if this call was made  
at that time or what its content might have been.  What is clear is that the Co-op had no 
record of this change  of address as its systems still had him living  at address A.
And thats where  statements  and the later arrears notices were  sent until November 2017. I 
cant say the Co-op was wrong to send  these items to this address  as it was the latest it had 
on file. It follows that I dont think it breached Mr Ts confidentiality by sending mail to this 
address - although  it was unfortunate that Mr T didnt receive this correspondence.
In April 2017, Mr T used his account  to make a purchase for just over £40. This was repaid 
within a few days and indeed the account showed  a single  figure  credit  balance. And in May 
2017 Mr T made another  single  item purchase for just over £130. Records show Mr T 
accessed his account online in early  June - when the balance was still showing at just over 
£130. Two payments of £30 each  towards  this balance were made later in June 2017, but 
then payments ceased.
I think its clear  from this sequence of events  that Mr T knew, or ought reasonably to have 
known, that he still owed payments on this account. And that he was aware  that interest and 
charges would be added if payments werent  made.  Its up to a customer  to manage  their 
account and Mr T had previously done  so without obvious difficulty. Whilst I accept it may 
have been due to an oversight that payments  werent met, that was solely  his responsibility. 
And I think this is crucial.
Its clear from records that the Co-op tried repeatedly to contact Mr T. But unsurprisingly  - as 
it was writing to address  A and using an incorrect mobile number - it failed  to make contact. 
And as it hadnt a record of his new address it was unaware his landline  number had also 
changed.
Mr T makes the point that his works number was known to the Co-op and it didnt  use that. 
But as the Co-op  made around  thirty attempts at contact,  I still think it made reasonable 
efforts to get in touch with him. Its not for me to dictate how often or by what  means a 
business tries to contact  a customer. As it had failed to re-establish contact with Mr T, the 
Co-op then took the decision to default  the account  and sell the debt to L.
Ref: DRN41180724Although Mr T doesnt accept that the Co-op  was entitled to do that, Im in no doubt  that it 
was within  its rights to do so. Its clear from clause  17.2 of the terms and conditions that the 
Co-op can transfer its rights and/or responsibilities under the agreement.
The Co-op was also entitled to seek repayment  of monies it lent along with any interest and 
charges imposed in line with the terms and conditions. So when Mr T failed to pay the 
required amounts  it was entitled to apply the interest  and charges and ultimately default the 
account. I dont  think  the Co-op was unfair in taking such actions - which  are set out in the 
terms and conditions as being amongst the potential consequences of failing to maintain 
payments.
Whilst I havent seen  a copy of Mr Ts credit  file, hes mentioned the account  was defaulted 
and the Co-ops  records show  it sent a notice of default in October 2017 and a further  notice 
terminating the account in October  2017.  So I infer the formal  recording of the default 
occurred shortly afterwards.
When Co-op sold the account  to L this assignment (transfer) permitted L to take ownership 
of the whole debt - including charges. But it had no effect on Mr Ts right to dispute  any 
aspect of the debt - as opposed to with which company that dispute should be pursued.
In November 2017, the Co-op sold the debt and Ive seen records that show  it advised L that 
Mr T was living at address  A. But it accepted it had sent a later email  to L in which  it had 
mistakenly also used  the address Mr T had lived in up to 2012. I dont think  this has any 
material effect on the outcome of this complaint as lenders have access  to the credit  records 
and histories of its borrowers/debtors which  include previous  addresses.  So I dont think  
theres been any breach of confidentiality  here.
I note that Mr Ts accepted Co-ops  acknowledgement of its failure to pass on his offer to L 
to clear the account  and its paid him £100 for this aspect of his complaint. So I dont need to 
make any further findings about this.
I can fairly summarise my findings by saying that I think  theres  some  merit in the respective 
points of view that both parties  have put forward. And it amounts to this.
Mr T feels that if the Co-op had correctly updated his mobile  phone  details in January 2014 - 
then even ignoring the lack of any record of the July 2014 change  of address - it would have 
been able to contact him from July 2017 onwards  when his account fell into arrears. I think 
thats probably correct.  Records show the Co-op made calls to the wrong mobile, so its 
likely if it had used the correct number Mr T would have received the calls.
The Co-op says it made repeated attempts - using the details it had recorded - to alert Mr T 
to the arrears. But it asserts that notwithstanding  this its the responsibility of the customer  to 
ensure payments are made. And it points to Mr T making part-payment  of the debt and 
accessing his account online the month  after his purchase. So even if he hadnt received 
phone calls, statements  and arrears letters he should still have known the state of his 
account and that there was still money  to pay. Again, I think  that this is also a valid position 
to hold.
I explained that my remit is to reach  a decision which  I think  is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. And based on my findings  I think that the Co-op made two errors - its failure 
to record a change  of mobile  phone number in January 2014  and its initial  handling of Mr Ts 
complaint in late November 2017.
Ref: DRN41180725As the debt had been sold by this latter  date,  any failures in the way the complaint was dealt  
with didnt have  any direct effect  on the previous events. And Mr T has accepted  £100 for 
issues arising from this contact. So I shant ask the Co-op to do anything more about  that 
aspect.
Whilst I think the Co-op failed to update  Mr Ts mobile number, I dont think  that was the 
cause of the subsequent  chain of events. That was solely the result  of Mr Ts failure  to make 
payments. He clearly  knew  of the debt as hed accessed his account online as well as 
making part-payments. So whether  or not he received reminder phone calls or statements 
doesnt alter that fact.
The most likely explanation is that he simply overlooked it and I accept thats  something  that 
could happen  to any of us. But whilst thats  unfortunate,  its not something  for which  I can 
hold the Co-op  responsible. It complied with its duty to send statements, arrears  letters  and 
the notice of default to the last known address it had for Mr T. And Ive already explained 
why I dont think it was at fault that this was not his actual address.
The fact that the Co-op made  additional  but unsuccessful efforts  to contact Mr T by phone  is 
not, in my opinion, a reasonable  ground for saying this resulted in Mr T not knowing of the
arrears until after the account was sold and defaulted. If the Co-op  had chosen  simply  to rely 
on postal communication  and not made any calls the same situation would have resulted. 
And whilst I accept it was misfortune that the wrong mobile phone number was used  - I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to hold the Co-op solely  to blame  for an error made 
doing something it wasnt required to do anyway.
Businesses which send  reports to credit reference agencies  are required to report accurate 
details of account behaviour. Ive seen nothing to suggest that the Co-ops made  any error in 
this respect. And as wed expect a default to be recorded if between  three  and six monthly 
payments are not met, I cant say it was wrong  to take such  action. It remains  open  to Mr T 
to add a notice of correction  to his credit file to explain how the default occurred. 
Whilst I know Mr T will be disappointed by my decision, Im not minded to uphold this 
complaint. I think the £100 already paid by the Co-op is a fair and reasonable resolution of 
this complaint. And I shant be asking it to anything  else.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4118072