K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Egg)  mis-sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI) to Mr C. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2004.  Barclays sold Mr C the 
policy at the same time that he applied for the card online. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr C disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mr C and his representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think Barclays made Mr C aware that the PPI was optional  and that he chose to 
take it  although I can understand if he can no longer remember this. The online  
application process which, from what  Barclays has told us, I think  Mr C will have 
followed to get his card, made  an applicant  choose either to accept or reject PPI 
before continuing  with the card application. Barclays records  show  that Mr C opted 
to have it. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mr Cs individual  
needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his circumstances. It was 
for Mr C to decide  if it was suitable for his needs. 
The information Barclays  gave  Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But I dont  think, in his circumstances, getting  full information about costs  and 
benefits would have affected  whether he took the PPI. The PPI couldve paid out for 
up to 12 months at a time, much longer than his sick pay  and it would have been 
on top of that sick pay, or of any redundancy payment he might have got if hed lost 
his job. And it doesnt look like hed have been  affected by any of the significant 
exclusions in the policy. Hes mentioned having  other insurance  at the time, in 
particular mortgage payment  cover - but that was specifically to cover  his mortgage 
repayments, not his credit  card.
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr C, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN48329382To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, and 
so Im not awarding  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4832938