K821x#15complaint
Mr F has complained Zopa  Limited is asking him to pay back  a loan he never took out with 
them.
background
After receiving some messages from a mobile  phone provider in December 2017,  Mr F 
realised hed been a victim  of ID fraud.  A few mobile  phone contracts were taken out in his 
name. He managed to sort this out mostly in discussion with his bank and other parties.
There was a loan agreement with Zopa in Mr Fs name. They told him a phone  related to 
the loan  had been delivered and signed  for by him. The phone provider had also received 
a £5 deposit from Mr Fs account and a direct debit had been set up on his account. Mr F 
disputed this and provided evidence to Zopa  that hed not paid £5. Although he accepted a 
phone may have been delivered to his mothers address, he said hed not signed for it nor 
received it. As Zopa wouldnt accept his arguments,  Mr F brought his complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the evidence. This included Mr Fs bank statements for two 
accounts showing no £5 payment was made along with a letter from a mobile phone  
provider confirming a fraudulent application  had been made  in Mr Fs name. Overall she 
found the delivery evidence more convincing. She didnt  think it would be fair to ask Zopa to 
stop pursuing Mr F for the loan to be repaid.
Mr F was shocked this could be the conclusion. He asked an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 29 October  2019. I didnt believe the evidence backed 
up Zopas belief Mr F had taken out the loan,  nor did I think hed ever taken possession  of 
the mobile phone. I asked Zopa to stop pursuing Mr F for payment of the loan, remove  all 
reference to the loan from his credit record and pay him £150 for the inconvenience  caused.
Mr F thanked me for the decision. He provided evidence that he was unable to get a 
mortgage whilst a default remained on his credit record. He asked us to consider increasing 
the compensation.
I received nothing back from Zopa.
I now have all the information I need to complete my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a slightly 
different conclusion to my provisional decision. Ill explain why.  
The first part of the decision remains the same  as my reasoning  about  why Mr F didnt take 
out this loan still stand.
Ive looked at the evidence of the original application made in Mr Fs name. Mr F was right to 
point out that his own first name  was spelt incorrectly. He said it was unlikely hed have done 
Ref: DRN40585612that. And I agree. The email and phone  details also dont match the ones Mr F has used in 
his complaint to us.
I can see from other information that Mr F has shared with us about  other  fraudulent mobile 
phone and credit  applications  that the misspelling of his first name has been a bit of a thread 
used in the fraudulent applications.  Along with some  interesting spelling of his surname as 
well. That makes it more unlikely to me that Mr F made this application. Its possible that 
someone mis-types their name once. Its unlikely that would be done regularly unless it was 
deliberate.
The address  used for the loan application and delivery of the mobile phone was Mr Fs 
mothers. He uses this address occasionally for correspondence (including one of his bank 
accounts). But this doesnt mean  he lives there.  Nor is this reflected in the records we hold 
for Mr F. The phone  number given with the application  and which  was most  likely used to 
advise about the timing  of delivery   wasnt his but that certainly would have alerted a 
fraudster who made  the application about when they could  have expected the delivery.   
Ive looked at the signature given on receipt of the phone. As most signatures on delivery are 
now done on an electronic device, I think its difficult to say a signature matched one made 
with a pen (and this one certainly  didnt). So I dont think that is convincing evidence  that 
Mr F actually  picked  up the phone.
Ive already mentioned that Zopa originally thought Mr F had paid £5 deposit for the phone. 
But they changed their mind  on seeing  his bank statement evidence. Ive seen this evidence 
too. Mr F didnt pay the phone provider.
Ive also seen evidence  from one of Mr Fs banks about other direct debits that were set up 
on his account  to pay for what  looks like another three mobile  phone  contracts. So those 
seem to be the account details a fraudster had got hold of to use to try and set up other 
agreements.
Its difficult to come  to any other  conclusion  than Mr F didnt take out the loan with Zopa. I 
say this because:
The application was made with details  that werent Mr Fs;
Theres no evidence Mr F received and signed for the phone
Theres no evidence Mr F paid for a deposit  or set up the direct  debit; and 
Around this time Mr F was a victim of ID fraud.
Zopa will need to stop pursuing Mr F for this loan and remove  any reference to it from his 
credit record. 
I do feel Zopa had an opportunity to decide  that they, along with Mr F, had been a victim of 
fraud. During  the time this dispute has remained outstanding, Mr F and his family  were 
hoping to move house  and get a mortgage.  Unfortunately as Mr Fs credit record  showed a 
default, his mortgage options were limited to those with higher  interest  rates. In the end he 
and his wife moved  to a smaller property than theyd hoped for. The mortgage is in his wifes 
sole name.  
Mr F provided us with calculations of the amount theyve lost by taking a mortgage with one 
lender as opposed to who their first choice would have been if that was available  to them.
Ref: DRN40585613I have said to Zopa that there are always a number of factors involved in any decision to buy 
a specific house.  It wouldnt be fair to say that Mr Fs decision is wholly  down to them  and 
the impact the loan has had on the credit  record. I appreciate Mr F may disagree  with this 
interpretation. But in my experience the decision to purchase  a house and get a mortgage 
are down to a range of moving factors.
However its true to say the loan that Mr F didnt  apply  for has had a much greater impact 
than I originally thought.  Ive told Zopa  that Ill be increasing the compensation to Mr F to 
£750. In the end this is only ever a token  as Im unable to put the clock  back.  Overall  I think 
this outcome is fair and reasonable taking everything into account.
I know Mr F is concerned at the time itll take to get his credit record updated. Hes right it 
can take time for credit  references to update information but Id expect  it be sorted within  6-8 
weeks of him accepting this decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Zopa Limited to:
Stop pursuing  Mr F for this loan which he didnt take out;
Make sure all references  to this loan are removed from his credit  record; and
Pay £750 compensation to Mr F for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020. 
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4058561