K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr S says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold  him the PPI.
background
Mr S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2002.  He was covered for accident, sickness 
and unemployment,  for which he paid a monthly amount. If he had made a successful claim, 
the policy would have paid out the monthly benefit  for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Both parties agree that the policy was sold during a telephone call. Due to the time that has 
passed since the sale, NatWest has been  unable to provide a recording of the call - I dont 
think that is surprising  considering how long ago it was. So I cant  say for certain what was 
said to Mr S during that phone call. Ive been  given  a copy of the mortgage application form, 
which was completed  during  the call, and I can see that this includes a section about PPI. In 
this section it asks Do you want Mortgage Repayments Protector?  the name given to PPI 
by NatWest  and the word Yes has been entered. I think  this response would have 
reflected the conversation he had with NatWest and it was during this conversation that he 
chose to take out the cover.
Ive also been  provided with a direct debit form which related to the payment of the 
premiums for the PPI. Ive seen this has been completed and signed  by Mr S. If he didnt 
want to take out the PPI he didnt have to complete this form.
So, when taking into account  everything  Ive seen and been told, I think its more likely that 
NatWest made it clear the policy was optional and Mr S agreed  to take it out  knowing he 
could refuse  it if he didnt want it.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have  to make  sure Mr S got the information  he needed to decide for himself if the 
policy was right for him.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover.
Ref: DRN49043542Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - including what he has said about not needing  
the policy due to his employee benefits  and savings.  Mr S has told us he was entitled  to six 
months full pay, followed by six months half pay from his employer if he was unable  to 
work due to illness  although Ive noted  that previously we were advised that it was just six 
months full pay. And Mr S has said he had a savings which he could have used to meet 
his repayments.  But the PPI policy was sold to Mr S on a non-advised basis so NatWest  
didnt have to check what other cover he had available to him. It was for Mr S to consider 
whether he needed this policy based  on the other means he knew he already had. It is 
important to note that this policy would  pay out in addition to any sick pay Mr S would have 
received and also would have enabled him to protect his savings for another purpose or 
use them  elsewhere,  such as covering  other living expenses. So these points  dont change  
my decision.
Ive also thought about whether NatWest  needs  to give Mr S some of the commission  he 
paid back. The unfair relationship provisions of the Consumer Credit  Act (CCA) and rules 
and guidance  introduced  by the Financial Conduct  Authority only apply to credit agreements  
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. From the information  Ive seen,  and as detailed by our adjudicator, 
Mr Ss credit  agreement doesnt fit into these dates   as this particular mortgage finished in 
2006 - and so I dont think NatWest has to refund any of the commission  Mr S paid on the 
PPI policy.   
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4904354