K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2009. Miss S says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
Miss S took out an PPI policy called Mortgage Repayments Cover  alongside  mortgage  in 
2009. She paid a monthly amount for the policy. She took this policy out as part of a 
package called Total  Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) which  offered accident, sickness, 
unemployment, critical illness and life cover. 
In this decision Im only considering the Mortgage  Repayments Cover (PPI) part of the 
TMPP - which is accident, sickness and unemployment cover,  as thats  what 
Miss S has complained  about.  Miss S policy only covered her for unemployment. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ss case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
The PPI was sold during a meeting between Miss S and Halifax.  During that meeting Halifax 
shouldve made  Miss S aware she had a choice in buying the policy.  Miss S says she wasnt  
aware she had the PPI.  
Neither Halifax nor Miss S has much paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think  thats  
surprising. But it does  mean I have limited information  about the sale, so I have to decide 
what I think is likely to have happened, given the information I do have and the broader 
circumstances.
Ive seen a screenshot of Halifaxs records which shows  it asked  Miss S a series of 
questions checking  whether she was eligible for the policy and also recorded her answers. I 
think this suggests  that a discussion  took place between Miss S and Halifax  about mortgage 
PPI  and based on what I know about  how Halifax sold policies like this at the time I think  
its likely  the optional nature wouldve been  made  clear.  
So overall I think its more  likely  Halifax made it clear to Miss S she had a choice about the 
PPI and she agreed to it.  
Halifax recommended  the policy to Miss S. So it had to check  it was right for her. 
Looking at Miss S circumstances,  she seems to have had a need for the cover. Miss S 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  or limits on the PPI cover. 
Miss S says she didnt  have any other  means  of making her repayments if she became 
unemployed.  Ive  noted Miss S comments that her family or friends  wouldve helped  if she 
couldnt make her mortgage repayments.  I dont doubt that they would have wanted to help 
but circumstances can change. So I dont  think this help can be guaranteed. 
Ref: DRN40221322So it seems  Miss S had a need  for the policy. Miss S was borrowing funds against a large  
and long term financial commitment,  which was secured  on her home, on her own. So I think 
having the security  that her mortgage  repayments would be made if she became 
unemployed would have  been important to her.
Miss S says Halifax didnt  explain anything  about  the policy to her. Looking at everything  Ive 
been given, its possible the information Halifax gave  Miss S about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Miss S chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. And  for the reasons Ive explained above - it looks like the policy would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. 
It also looks like the policy was affordable for her. So I dont think  better information about 
the PPI would have put Miss S off taking out the cover.
Overall, I dont  think Miss S have lost out by anything Halifax  might have done wrong. This 
means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything     
Miss S paid for it. But Halifax has already offered  to give Miss S back some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Miss S.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4022132