K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold them an Additions packaged account.  
background
Mr and Mrs Ts account history is as follows:
December 1997: opened as a fee-free account,
January 2001:  upgraded  to an Additions  account,
December 2005: upgraded to an Additions Plus account,
August 2011:  downgraded to a fee-free account.  
Mr and Mrs T complained about the sale of both the Additions and the Additions Plus 
account. Barclays explained that they were out of time to bring a complaint about the 
Additions Plus, and we agreed. Because of this, I havent considered the sale of the 
Additions Plus account. 
Our adjudicator investigated and felt the Additions account wasnt  mis-sold by Barclays. Mr 
and Mrs T disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Barclays mis-sold the Additions account. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs T dont  remember  the sale itself, which is understandable considering it was sold 
around 19 years ago. Barclays also doesnt  have any documentation from the time of the 
sale. Where I have  limited information  available, I must consider what I think it more likely  in 
the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs T previously  held fee-free accounts with Barclays. And at the time of the sale,  
fee-free accounts  in general were widely advertised and available  from banks, building  
societies and other financial institutions. So, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs T were 
aware they could  keep  their fee-free account  if they wanted to. And I think its more  likely Mr 
and Mrs T agreed to take out the Additions  account  and just no longer remember  doing so. I 
say this because, at the time of the sale,  the account cost £6 per month and the main benefit 
available was an interest free overdraft up to £100  with no fees to use it. This meant Mr and 
Mrs T would avoid having to pay the £5 overdraft usage fee they were  currently paying on 
their fee-free account. 
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ts account statements from the time, they went into their overdraft 
from time to time before the upgrade. But after the account was changed  to an Additions 
account, they were  generally overdrawn more frequently  and for larger amounts. But by 
having the Additions account, they wouldnt  be charged the £5 overdraft usage fee at all and 
they wouldnt be charged interest if they remained in the £100 buffer. Having looked at how 
Mr and Mrs T operated their account, I think its more likely that they agreed to upgrade the 
Ref: DRN49441442account for the overdraft benefits,  rather than it being the case that Barclays  upgraded the 
account without  their permission.
Based on the evidence  available to me, Im not persuaded that Barclays recommended  the 
Additions account to Mr and Mrs T. Because  of this, Barclays didnt have to check  the 
account was suitable for them. But it did have to give them enough information so they could 
make sure they wanted it. 
Mr and Mrs T dont  recall  anything from the time of the sale,  and Barclays  no longer has any 
point of sale documents. So, its possible Mr and Mrs T werent  given all the important 
information about the account at the time.  Mr and Mrs T have also said they had some  of the 
other benefits with other providers. 
But I dont think better  information about the account would have affected their decision  to 
take it out. I say this because this was a packaged  account, meaning Mr and Mrs T couldnt 
pick and choose the benefits it came with. And because I think  its more likely Mr and Mrs T 
agreed to the Additions account because  of the overdraft benefits, I dont think they would  
have changed  their mind  if they knew more about the other benefits on the account. At the 
time this included cardholder protection, purchase protection,  will writing  service, legal 
advice line and life assurance. 
Mr and Mrs T have  mentioned several other  benefits they had from separate providers such  
as mobile phone insurance,  car breakdown cover and travel insurance. But none of these 
were benefits of the Additions account at the time of the sale. So, I dont  think  this would 
have affected  their decision to upgrade the account.  
On balance, I think its more likely  Mr and Mrs T agreed to take out the Additions account, 
knowing they didnt  have to. And that they did so with an understanding  of what  the account 
included and how it worked. So, I dont think Barclays mis-sold the Additions account to 
them. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4944144