K821x#15complaint
Ms O has complained that Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  did not downgrade her 
account from a fee paying  Ultimate Reward  Current Account to a fee free account  when  she 
requested it do so.
background
Ms O attempted to downgrade her account in 2017. She raised a complaint with Halifax  
because this request  was not completed until 2018 and the failure  to downgrade her account 
meant that she paid additional monthly  account  fees. Halifax in response agreed  to refund 
the account fees from November 2017 as it believed this is when Ms O made  her request to 
downgrade her account it also offered £50 to reflect the distress caused by this matter. 
Ms O did not agree  with this as she believed  that Halifax  should  refund the account fees 
from July 2017  as this was when she first spoke to Halifax  about her URCA account.  Our 
adjudicators looked into this complaint already they concluded that Halifax should add 
interest at 8% simple  from the date each  account  fee had been paid. They did though after 
listening to the call in July 2017  think that the account fees should  only be refunded  from 
November 2017,  as during the call no request was made to downgrade the account.  This 
offer was paid by Halifax to Ms Os account.
Ms O did not agree  she said she believes that the call is ambiguous in relation to 
downgrading the account  and she should receive  more than £50 for the distress caused by 
this matter. Therefore,  this case was passed  forward for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this instance I do not think  that Halifax needs  to do anything  more than it has already 
done. I have listened to the call in question and I think that it is made  reasonably clear at the 
end of the call that the account would not be downgraded unless Halifax upheld Ms Os 
complaint. In addition,  the letter issued later in July 2017 as Halifaxs response  to the mis-
sale complaint also clarified that account would  not be downgraded. So I dont think that 
Halifax either said the account would automatically been changed or should have 
downgraded Ms Os account at this point.
That said,  I agree  that Halifax  should  have done more in November  2017  to downgrade Ms 
Os account. But what Halifax has already done  by refunding the monthly account fees after 
this point with interest  is sufficient as this essentially puts her back  in the position she would 
have been in had the account been  downgraded  in November 2017. 
I note that Ms O feels that she should  also receive  more compensation from the distress 
caused by this issue than the £50 she has already been paid. Overall  and considering  
everything I do not agree that more  compensation is merited and therefore I dont think  that 
Halifax should do anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that Halifax does not need to do anything more  in relation to Ms Os complaint
Ref: DRN42302222Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4230222