K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about what he was told, before he signed a hire purchase agreement with 
Honda Finance  Europe Plc, for a brand new car.
background
In 2016, Mr B was part way through a hire purchase agreement  with Honda, for a car he got 
from a Honda  dealership.  At that time,  Mr B says he received a telephone  call from the same  
dealer, offering to exchange  his current car for a brand new one.
After some discussion, Mr B says the dealer offered him a new hire purchase  agreement for 
three years and he paid a deposit over the phone. When the car was ready, Mr B went  to 
collect it and says he signed the paperwork,  given to him by the dealer.
Towards the end of 2018, Mr B says he noticed  that he had more to repay  under his hire 
purchase agreement  than he was expecting. Mr B says he realised that his agreement was 
for four years, rather than the three year timeframe, he was told by the dealer.  So, Mr B 
contacted Honda to complain that the dealer had misled him. He said that he had always 
taken out agreements with them for three  years  and had trusted what  the dealer had said.
Initially, Honda told Mr B to complain directly  to the dealer. But, after Mr B persisted, Honda 
wrote to him with their final response. In that letter, Honda said the sales person at the 
dealership had left, so they couldnt say what Mr B was told before he agreed  to the finance. 
Honda also said that Mr Bs contract  with them was clear, in that it was to last for 48 months, 
and he could have  used the 14 day cooling off period, to exit the agreement at the start.
Mr B disagreed with Honda and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
considered Mr Bs case and concluded  that Mr B was given  enough information to question 
the length of the contract before he signed  it. He said he couldnt say that Mr B was or 
wasnt given incorrect information during  the call with the dealer, and that his previous 
agreements were not for three years.
Mr B didnt accept this and says he was given considerable paperwork to sign when he 
collected the car and he was very satisfied with the dealer up to that point. So he said he 
had no reason to think he was lied to in the phone call. Mr B also said his deposit  was paid 
in that phone call, so Honda had bound him to the agreement, without him seeing the 
paperwork first.
The investigator didnt  change his conclusions and Mr B asked  for his case  to be passed  to 
an ombudsman. Quite some time has passed since the investigators conclusions  and Mr B 
has voluntarily terminated his contract  with Honda.  This meant  he had to make a payment to 
Honda, to allow this to happen.  
Mr Bs case  has now been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN40072062I can see that Mr B first complained to Honda  in late 2018, which  means hes been  dealing 
with this matter for over eighteen  months. I acknowledge that the complaint  has been on 
Mr Bs mind throughout this time and I empathise with the impact this timeframe may have 
had.
The role of the Honda Finance Europe  Plc
Hire purchase agreements, like the one given to Mr B, are regulated by the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (CCA). Section  56 of the CCA, says that a finance provider is responsible  for any 
antecedent negotiations carried out by the credit broker. In Mr Bs case,  the dealer acted as 
Hondas agent with his hire purchase  agreement for the car. And Honda are responsible for 
anything the dealer said to Mr B about the contract, before he entered into it. So, I think  Mr B 
was always able to bring his complaint  to Honda.
The contract signed by Mr B.
Page one of the pre-contract information  given to Mr B to sign on 15 September  2016 says:
The duration of the credit agreement  48 Months
And page one of the hire purchase agreement between Mr B and Honda says:
Agreement Duration  48 Months
After considering these  documents  very carefully, I think  the length  of the agreement 
between Mr B and Honda  was made  clear, before he signed  them  and collected the car from 
the dealer. Mr B now acknowledges this and says he didnt fully check  the paperwork he was 
given to sign. He says this was because  of the many  documents  the dealer gave him. But, 
more specifically, he says it was because he trusted what  the dealer had told him, about the 
length of the contract, in the telephone call.
The salesperson at the dealership no longer works for them,  which means there  isnt a 
statement from that person, to be able to check what was said.  So, I have considered what 
Mr B has told us about that conversation.  
Mr B says he paid a £500 deposit to the dealer, to secure the agreement  he had spoken  to 
them about, during the telephone  call. He says by paying this deposit, he was effectively 
bound to the agreement without seeing the terms and conditions first. I agree that by paying 
a deposit, Mr B showed his willingness to complete the agreement  with the dealer. But, the 
agreement was yet to be signed  by him. So, I think Mr B was able to stop the process  at any 
point before he signed the paperwork. I acknowledge  that Mr B may have lost some or all of 
his deposit, if he chose to step away from the deal. But, I dont think  Mr B was bound  to the 
agreement, when he paid the deposit.
The hire purchase agreement between Mr B and Honda, says that Mr B paid a deposit of 
£710. This isnt the same  as the deposit  amount  Mr B says he paid during the telephone call. 
So, I think there is a difference between Mr Bs recollection of the telephone call and what 
shows on the agreement. 
Mr B has also said that the agreements  he had with the same dealer, for his two previous 
cars, were both due to last for three  years. And this is another reason why he expected his 
latest agreement  to be the same. But, I can see from looking at Mr Bs first two agreements, 
Ref: DRN40072063that only one was scheduled  to last for around  three years. The duration of other agreement 
was for 43 months.  Because of this I dont think Mr B had historically taken out agreements  
with the dealer for the same amounts of time. 
In all the circumstances, I think there  are some inconsistencies with what Mr B has told us 
about the telephone  call and some of the actual details from his agreement and past 
agreements. So, on balance, Im not persuaded that the dealer told him that the agreement  
he would  go on to sign, would be for three years.
When Mr B collected the car, he says the dealer gave him a significant amount of paperwork 
to sign. I accept that Mr B may have been  eager to complete the paperwork, since  he was 
about to get a brand new car. And that hed built up some trust with the dealer.  But, I think  
the dealer gave Mr B the opportunity to check through the hire purchase agreement.
Also, Mr Bs agreement meant that he was due to pay Honda a total of around £28,000. This 
is a significant  amount,  so I think it was reasonable for Mr B to have given consideration to 
the contract  he had been given, when he collected  the car. In all the circumstances, I think 
the dealer gave the important details  about  the agreement  to Mr B.
A direct debit was set up for Mr B to pay Honda around £400 from his bank account, when 
he took out the hire purchase  agreement. By paying  this amount over three years,  it means 
Mr B would have paid a total of around £14,000. But, this is some way short  of the purchase 
price of the car. So, I dont think it follows that Mr Bs repayments would have repaid the hire 
purchase agreement,  had it have been for three  years.  
I dont think its necessarily the responsibility of a customer to have done these calculations, 
based on the direct debit  amount on its own. So, I have considered the annual statement 
sent to Mr B in August  2017. As well as showing how much Mr B had paid and how much  he 
had left to pay, the annual statement says:
Original Agreement Duration  48 Months
Having considered everything, I think the monthly amount Mr B was paying to Honda and 
the information contained within the annual statement,  told Mr B all he needed to know  about 
his hire purchase agreement. So, I dont think it would be fair for Honda  to now treat the 
agreement as if Mr B had taken it our over three years.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr B has said about his conversation with the dealer, 
before he signed  the hire purchase agreement.  Ive also thought  about  the information  on 
the agreement  itself, the annual statements and the reasons  why Mr B says he didnt check 
the contract, before he signed it. Whilst I know Mr B was incredibly upset by the amount he 
had left to pay, on balance,  Im not persuaded he was misled by the dealer, before he signed 
the hire purchase  agreement. 
In all the circumstances, I dont think Honda need to pay compensation to Mr B for the costs 
hes incurred to voluntarily  terminate his agreement.
my final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN40072064Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 September 2020.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4007206