K822xcomplaint
Mr S complained that Gain  Capital UK Limited  didnt inform  him in advance  that they would 
be setting up a secondary account for him and transferring his trades to it. He also 
complained that they hadnt  told him he was paying a daily financing  charge on open 
positions. He only realised this when they started  emailing  him statements. 
Background 
Mr S had held a contracts for differences (CFDs) trading  account  with Gain  for around nine 
years, making frequent trades mostly in currency pairs. 
On 1 August  2018, the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA),  a European  
financial regulator for securities markets, introduced some  new regulations designed  to 
protect retail  traders. These included setting maximum leverage limits for different asset 
classes, including currency pairs. 
Over the weekend before  these changes  came into effect, Gain closed its platform so it 
could make changes  to comply with the new rules. All client  open positions  were transferred 
to a secondary account, where their existing margins  were preserved. These accounts were  
set to close only,  meaning  that no new trades, including hedging ones, could be opened.  
Gain also opened new primary  accounts  for clients,  which used the new leverage levels set 
out by ESMA.  
Mr S complained on the Monday after the closure.  He said that, whilst  he was aware of the 
changes, he hadnt been told about  the secondary  account. So he was left for 36 hours with 
an account showing a nil balance  and no information about  what  had happened or how to 
access the new account. He said that, in advance, hed asked  four different Gain  employees 
how the changes  would  affect  him and no one mentioned  the secondary account.  
Gain didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint  and Mr S referred it to us. He also expanded it. He said 
that shortly before  these changes, he started being emailed statements on his CFD account 
for the first time. Because  of these, he realised that he was paying daily financing  charges 
on long positions.  He complained about these charges too, saying they hadnt  been made  
clear to him previously. He said these charges werent visible  on the web platform. 
I made  a provisional decision  on Mr Ss complaint  on 21 June 2019. In summary, I said:
Id seen no evidence  that Gain mentioned or explained the secondary account to 
Mr S. 
I didnt think Gain did enough to let Mr S know  about what would happen to his 
trading account.  He was left for a weekend, with no means  to contact Gain  (because 
they were closed) and no idea what had happened to all his trades  or the funds on 
his account. 
Mr S had told us this caused him a lot of stress over 36 hours  of the weekend  and I 
agreed it would have been  worrying. I was therefore  minded  to direct Gain to pay 
Mr S £75 for the distress caused. As the worry only lasted  for 36 hours and there  was 
no lasting impact  on his trades,  I thought £75 was fair compensation.  
Mr S said that the financing costs werent  visible on his web platform, only the net 
equity. But I didnt  agree that they werent  available. I thought the information  was 
there. I said this because Gain has shown me evidence of an example daily 
statement and a screenshot from the market information section of its web platform. 
Ref: DRN42546032Both clearly show the financing charges.  Based on this, I found it more likely than not 
that this has always  been there. I also didnt think this information  was hidden or 
particularly hard to find. 
Gains records from when Mr S signed up for his account in October  2010  showed 
that Mr S opened his account via the forex.com website. Part of the process required 
him to tick a box to confirm hed read the customer agreement, trading policy  and risk 
document. Gain has provided  its system  records as evidence that Mr S ticked  these 
boxes. Im satisfied that he did. 
That wasnt to say, of course, that Mr S actually did read those documents.  But he 
indicated to Gain that he had done  so  and Gain were therefore entitled  to assume 
that he had. 
Because it was some  time ago, Gain hadnt been able to find the customer 
agreement from when  Mr S signed  up. But they had sent one from May 2011, some  
seven months later.  On balance, I thought the one Mr S confirmed hed read would 
have been very similar. 
Whilst the customer agreement didnt list the individual charges, there was also 
information on the website at the time. Overall, I was satisfied that Gain  provided 
information that was clear,  fair and not misleading about financing charges  at the 
time Mr S opened his account and thereafter.  
Gains account manager had made regular calls to Mr S roughly every six months. 
They didnt mention financing charges in those conversations. But I didnt think  it 
would be fair for me to require Gain to compensate Mr S for not discussing 
something that neither side was aware  at the time was an issue.  
My provisional decision was to award  £75 compensation  for the poor communication 
about the secondary account. I didnt uphold the second part of the complaint  about  
the financing charges.  
Gain didnt comment on my provisional  findings. Mr S, in summary, said:
He hadnt  known about the new account  for 36 hours
He agreed it was his responsibility to understand the impact of the changes  which  
is why hed contacted Gain four times. 
He had refused  the £75 not because it wasnt enough, but more  because it wasnt an 
apology or even recognition of not being  clear in the changes.
Gain had assumed hed known about  the financing charges. But this assumption 
wasnt reasonable and was wrong.
He asked if Gain were saying theyd sent email statements in 2017,  or just that they 
were available on the website?  
He wasnt aware  of the charges.  So he had no reason to look for them on the website 
or in online statements.  Finding something you dont  know  exists is virtually  
impossible. 
It wasnt acceptable that Gain couldnt find the customer  agreement hed accepted  
when he opened  his account. 
He couldnt  confirm reading  a customer agreement  Gain couldnt show him. 
He asked if Gain were now emailing daily statements out of courtesy or a regulatory  
requirement? 
He didn't think anyone who had held a bank account for a number of years would go 
over the details each  time they logged  in.
Ref: DRN42546033My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I havent  changed  my 
provisional view 
First, on the subject of the ESMA  changes and the secondary account,  theres  no dispute 
that Mr S didnt know about the new account  for 36 hours. Ive agreed  with him that Gain 
didnt do enough  to explain the impact  of the changes to him. 
I know Mr S would have liked Gain to apologise  for not telling him about  the new account, 
despite what were clearly repeated efforts on his part to find out. I can see why this has been 
frustrating. But I dont  think an apology  mandated  by me is really going to help things at this 
stage. Im going to direct  Gain to pay some compensation for the worry and frustration they 
caused. I still think £75 is a fair figure  to reflect this, given the time period involved. 
Mr S opened  his account online through  a website. As part of the opening process,  he had to 
confirm hed read a customer agreement. I accept that its disappointing that Gain hasnt 
been able to find the exact customer agreement in use at that date. But October 2010 was 
some time ago. Agreements generally change incrementally over time. So I think  its unlikely 
that Gains customer agreement changed significantly between October 2010 and the 
agreement theyve sent me from May 2011.  In addition, Ive seen what the forex.com 
website looked  like at the time Mr S opened his account. I found the information at the time 
on financing charges to be clear.  
My role is to decide whats  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ss case,  not to 
answer any questions  Mr S has, which may be better addressed to the firm. But Ill try to 
help where I can. Mr S has asked whether Gain are now emailing him daily statements - 
rather than just making them available online - because of a change  in regulatory  
requirements. Some new regulations called the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive 
(MiFID) II came into force  in January 2018,  which did include a requirement for firms to send 
clients statements at least quarterly. But online statements are still sufficient. So I dont think  
Gain were required to make this charge  although MiFID II may have influenced Gains 
thinking in deciding to start emailing them daily. 
I think the important  point here is that I havent  found that Gain have done anything  wrong,  
either in the way they sent statements previously or the way they send them  now.  
Mr S argues  that he couldnt  be expected to look for something he didnt know  was there. 
But the point of account statements, like bank statements, is that customers  can check 
everything thats there, both expected and unexpected. 
In my view, Mr S made the decision to trade  daily for many years,  without looking closely  at 
the profitability  of his trades  or the impact of charges on them. My view is that this was his 
decision. Im satisfied that Gain made  information available  about the charges he was paying 
in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading.  He chose not to access it. But I dont think  
that was Gains  fault. 
Ref: DRN42546034My final decision
I uphold the part of the complaint about the introduction  of ESMA changes  and direct  Gain  
Capital UK Limited  to pay Mr S the £75 already offered. I dont uphold  the part of the 
complaint about  financing  charges. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4254603