K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a mortgage  payment
protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
background
The circumstances leading to the Mr Ps complaint, together with my initial findings, were  set 
out in my provisional  decision dated  10 January 2019, a copy of which  is attached.
Neither Mr P nor Nationwide  gave  us any further information following receipt of my 
provisional decision..
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about payment protection  insurance on 
our website. Ive followed  this in Mr Ps case.
As neither party made any further comments or sent us any new information about the 
complaint since it was issued, I see no reason to vary my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision, my decision is that I do not 
uphold this compliant.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN40749532complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide  Building Society mis-sold him a mortgage payment
protection insurance, (MPPI),  policy.
background
Mr P took out a monthly-premium MPPI policy  during  a meeting in 1998 at the same time as
taking out a mortgage.
Our adjudicators view was that the complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.  As Mr P disagreed  the
matter has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection
insurance on our web-site. Ive followed  this in making  my decision.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I explain why below.
I think  that Mr P knew that the MPPI was optional  and that he chose to take it. I say this
because Ive seen his mortgage application. This shows that only cover for unemployment
had been chosen and it also set out the monthly benefit required. The policy could  also have
covered Mr P for accident  and sickness so Im satisfied that his application was printed this
way after a discussion with Mr P during which he knew that he had a choice  about what
cover, if any, to take.
As Nationwide  didnt  recommend Mr P to take the MPPI it didnt  have to take reasonable
steps to ensure that it was suitable for his needs. Mr P had to decide  for himself  whether  he
wanted the policy, in the light of his personal  and financial circumstances at the time. But
Nationwide did have to give Mr P clear, fair and not-misleading information about  the
insurance so that he could make  an informed  choice whether to take it or not.
As Ive mentioned above, the mortgage application set out the monthly benefit  the policy
would pay out following a successful claim. (It appears that Mr P must  have changed  his
mind before the insurance started as the initial  benefit  shown in Nationwides records is
slightly less.) And Mr Ps mortgage offer,  which Ive also seen, showed  that the initial
monthly premium  was about £20. But I dont  know whether Nationwide told Mr P everything
else that it ought to have told him about the policy. But knowing what I do about Mr Ps
circumstances at the time of the meeting when  the policy  was sold. And having  reviewed  its
terms and conditions  I find that:
Mr P was eligible for the policy;
The MPPI was reasonably priced  by reference both to other policies available in the
market at the time and to the benefits it offered. And I havent  seen anything to suggest
that Mr P couldnt afford  the premiums. In any event, as they were  paid for monthly, he
could have cancelled  the policy at any time had he no longer wanted it or felt he couldnt
afford it ;
Mr P has told us that he had no other insurance or savings to help him make his
mortgage payments had he not been working because he had become involuntarily
unemployed. But following  a successful claim  the policy  would have paid out £500 a
month for up to 12 months, so I find it would  have been of use to him;
Ref: DRN40749533Im not clear about Mr Ps employment status  at the time of the sale. He has told us that
he was self-employed. But his mortgage application records that he was an employee.
But in any event this doesnt  affect my decision. This is because the terms for making  a
claim for unemployment  for someone  who was self-employed were  no more  onerous
than those for an employee.
Leaving aside  the question as to whether  Mr P was in fact an employee, Mr P now
argues that because  he was self-employed he was the only person who could make
himself redundant.  This would  therefore mean that any redundancy was voluntary. And
as the policy would not pay out for voluntary redundancy the terms would  indeed have
been more onerous for him than for an employee. I do not agree  with this argument. The
policy terms are that it will pay out if the insured suffers unemployment. Broadly speaking
unemployment is defined as:
obeing  no longer in paid work  for an average of at least 16 hours a week;
oappropriately registered as such; and
ohaving  signed and being  in compliance  with a job-seekers agreement.
These are all conditions with which a self-employed person could comply as easily  as an
employee.
Although, as Mr P says,  the policy will not pay out for voluntary redundancy,  I do not
agree that this arises  in the case of someone who was self-employed. Any commonsense
interpretation of redundancy implies that there is one party who dismisses another
party. So this exclusion  is not relevant.  It would have been open to the insurer to draft
the terms and conditions of the policy in a different fashion had it wanted to exclude
paying out in the case of a self-employed person who stopped trading without  good
cause. But it didnt do this.
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr P was caught by any of the policys other
main limitations  and restrictions   such as those affecting someone  with a pre-existing
medical condition;
So, from the above, I conclude  that had Nationwide  given Mr P clearer  information about the
insurance it wouldnt  have changed his mind and stopped him buying it. I think that he would
have thought  that it was good value. I say this particularly taking into account the serious
consequences that could  have arisen had Mr P been  unable to make his monthly  mortgage
repayments that were secured on his home. This means that he hasnt lost our because  of
anything wrong in Nationwides  sales process. So theres nothing I require Nationwide to put
right.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, subject to any more information I receive, as above, my decision
is that I do not uphold this complaint
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4074953