K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs O say Santander  UK Plc (when  it was trading as Alliance & Leicester) mis-sold 
them a mortgage  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a mortgage  in 2002. 
Mr and Mrs O applied for the PPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Os case.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint and Ive set out my reasons below. 
Santander recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs O, so it had to check  it was right for their 
circumstances and needs. But I dont think it was suitable for them.  
The policy has an exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions  which  says:
(ii) You will not receive monthly  benefit for any disability  or unemployment  caused  by or 
resulting from any of the following:
(a)any condition:
(i)which you knew about (or ought reasonably to have known about) at the start 
date; or
(ii)for which you sought or received  advice, treatment  or counselling from a
doctor in the 12 months immediately before the start date.
This exclusion will not apply to pre-existing conditions if you have been free 
from symptoms  and have  not consulted a doctor  or received treatment  for a 
24 month period  prior to your claim
Mr O has told us he had a medical  condition when he bought the policy, and that this had 
been diagnosed several years earlier. 
Santander says Mr O didnt mention this condition when he first raised  his complaint with it. 
But I note that Santanders final response  letter mentions that Mr O may have had a medical 
condition at the point of sale.  So I havent been  able to safely conclude  that Mr O has given 
Ref: DRN43085192contradictory information about whether or not he had a medical  condition  at the point of 
sale. 
Santander also considers Mr O should  provide further information and evidence  of the 
condition he says he was suffering from.  But given  the amount of time thats passed since  
the policy was sold, I dont think its fair to expect Mr O to provide the evidence Santander is 
seeking. I think its reasonable to accept what Mr O has told me about  his health issue.
Mr O clearly knew about his medical condition  when he bought  the policy.  So he wouldnt 
have been covered if hed had to take time off work  in connection with it.
The policy wording suggests the exclusion wouldnt apply if Mr O remained free from 
symptoms and didnt  consult a doctor or receive treatment for twenty four months before any 
claim. 
But given the nature of Mr Os condition, I think its likely that he would  need  to consult a 
doctor fairly  regularly to monitor  the ongoing medication he has to take. So I still think Mr O 
wouldve been affected by the policys exclusion  for pre-existing medical conditions.  And for 
that reason Ive concluded that Santanders  recommendation  to take the policy was 
unreasonable.
Ive not been clearly  shown that Santander discussed Mr Os health with him at all at the
time of sale.  Santander thinks  its adviser wouldve done so, but hasnt given me anything
showing that it did this or what  was said, including the questions  asked or what  answers 
Mr O gave, or that he was given  any advice about the exclusion and how it might affect him. 
Santander should have checked Mr Os medical  history to make  sure that the PPI was
suitable for him. As Ive already said, had it done so I think it wouldve realised that the PPI 
wasnt suitable for him. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs O would have bought the policy if Santander had made it clear it 
wasnt suitable, or hadnt recommended it to them.
fair compensation
Santander should put Mr and Mrs O in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken  out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs O the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs O made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Santander  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
Santander can also take off any Plevin commission it has already paid Mr and Mrs O 
from the amount  it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN43085193my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Santander  UK Plc to pay compensation to 
Mr and Mrs O in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 August 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4308519