K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains about end of contract  charges  when her agreement with BMW  Financial 
Services (GB) Limited ended.
background
In January 2015 Miss M was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with BMWFS. The car was approximately two years old at the point of supply and had 
covered mileage of 13,200.
At the completion  of the agreement the car was collected and inspected  on 1 April 
2019.Following this, Miss M received an invoice for excess mileage charges and damage 
charges.
Miss M isnt happy about the excess mileage  charges. She says she was told by the 
supplying dealer that the mileage wouldnt be taken into consideration when she handed the 
car back.  She also says the dealer  suggested the mileage limit to keep her monthly 
repayments affordable,  even though  she told the dealer she was likely to exceed that limit.
With regards to wear and tear, Miss M said the car had been checked  over by a main dealer 
before it was returned and she hadnt  been  told of any issues. She said the car was in good  
condition for its age.
Miss M wants  BMWFS  to remove all the charges.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the mileage limit and excess mileage 
charges were made clear in the documents which Miss M had signed at the point of supply. 
He said the charges for damage were fair, taking into account relevant industry guidelines.
Miss M didnt agree. She said shed  been led to believe that the wording on the documents  
in relation to excess  mileage could be ignored because the dealership would deal with this at 
the end of the agreement  when she purchased another  car. She also said the car had been  
checked for faults before she handed  it back and nothing was said about  the tyres or alloys.  
Miss M was unhappy that BMWFS hadnt  carried out the repairs it had charged her for and 
felt it had profited  unfairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Excess mileage
Miss M said she was mis-sold the agreement because the salesperson made a 
representation about excess mileage which wasnt true. She said she was told to ignore 
what was said in the documents about excess mileage  because the mileage wouldnt be 
taken into consideration when she returned the car and purchased  another  one.
The supplying dealer said that excess mileage  would  have  been  discussed but that it wasnt 
its practice to tell customers that excess mileage charges wouldnt be applied. The salesman 
Ref: DRN49100612who dealt with Miss M no longer works for the business and theres no notes evidencing 
what was discussed.  I wasnt  present when the discussion took place so I cant  be certain of 
what was said. In circumstances  like this I need  to look at all the contemporaneous  
documents as these  are likely to be the best evidence of what was discussed and agreed.
Ive looked at the point  of sale documents. The hire purchase agreement clearly  states an 
annual mileage limit of 8000  miles,  with a total mileage of 45,867.  It says excess mileage will 
be charged at 5.49 pence per mile.
Miss M has signed the agreement and in doing so has confirmed that she has read and 
understood the agreement and that she agreed  to be legally bound  by the terms and 
conditions.
Ive also looked  at the pre sale document. This sets out key information about  the 
agreement. It also contains a warning  about estimated mileage as follows:
Please confirm your estimated mileage is correct on the agreement. Estimating too low may 
result in an excess mileage charge being payable when the agreement ends.
Miss M has signed the pre-sale document. If she had any questions  about the excess  
mileage charges, or any doubts that she would be able to remain within the mileage  limit 
over the term of the agreement, I wouldve expected her to raise these before signing the 
agreement.
Ive noted Miss Ms concerns that she was told to ignore what was said about  excess 
mileage in the documents. Theres no evidence to support this. I think its unlikely that Miss 
M would have signed  a legally binding agreement if it directly contradicted something which 
had been said to her by the salesman.
Because of this, Im not persuaded  that there has been a misrepresentation regarding  the 
mileage limit.
Damage charges
The terms and conditions  of the agreement say that Miss M must return  the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds  fair wear and tear is the customers  
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by BVLRA and these  guidelines are widely  
accepted as an industry standard  in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear  and 
tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos. This identifies  damage which  
BMWFS says goes  beyond  fair wear and tear and is therefore chargeable.
The damage to the alloy wheels is clearly  visible in the photos.  The BVLRA guidelines say 
that dents and holes on wheel rims and wheel  trims  are not acceptable. They  also say that 
scuffs over 50mm on the circumference  of the wheel trim and alloy wheels are unacceptable 
and that any damage  to the wheel spokes  and hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable.
In this case, the scuffs appear to exceed  50mm on all four wheels. In addition,  there  are 
scuffs on the wheel spokes of the rear left hand  wheel. Im satisfied that this damage falls 
Ref: DRN49100613outside fair wear  and tear taking the guidelines  into account. Because of this, I think  BMWFS 
has acted fairly in applying the charges.
Ive taken into account what Miss M has said about  the car being  in good condition  for its 
age. The car was approximately 6 years  old when the agreement  ended.  The BVLRA 
guidelines make  allowances  for older  vehicles but in this case  I still think  the extent  of the 
damage to the wheels  means that the charges are fair.
I understand the point which Miss M makes about  the repairs not being  carried  out. She 
feels that BMWFs has unfairly profited as a result. However, theres no obligation on 
BMWFS to carry out repairs before  selling  the car. The damage charges are designed to 
reflect any reduction  in the value of the car caused by the damage.
Ive noted Miss Ms concerns regarding collection of the charges. Because this complaint 
was brought about the charges themselves, Im unable to look at this aspect. I can see that 
the investigator explained to Miss M that she can raise a separate  complaint about this if she 
wishes.
In conclusion, Im unable to uphold the complaint. Im satisfied that the mileage limit wasnt 
misrepresented and that the charges for damage  are fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4910061