K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Canada Square  Operations Limited (Canada Square) mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) with a credit card.
background
Mrs M took out PPI in 2001 when she applied  for a credit card.  Both were done at the same 
time using  an online  application.
At the time Mrs M was employed as a secretary.  She told us she was entitled to six months  full 
pay followed  by six months  half pay and had between three and six months worth of her 
income in savings. She also said she had no health problems at the time.
The policy provided  cover  for accident and sickness, unemployment, death  and serious 
illness  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay up to 10% of Mrs Ms 
credit card balance in the event of a successful  claim  for accident and sickness or 
unemployment. At the time, it cost 69p per £100  of the monthly outstanding  balance. The 
premium would continue  to have to be paid during  a successful claim and it did attract 
interest. 
Canada Squares  records show  that Mrs Ms credit  card account ended in 2004.
In summary,  Mrs Ms representative raised  the following complaint points on her behalf:
Mrs M didnt know she had PPI
she had enough  in existing means, so she didnt need the policy
the PPI didnt cover the lifetime of the loan
this was an advised sale
Canada Square  breached the regulations at the time including  the ICOB rules
the information Mrs M got about  PPI was misleading.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The Financial Ombudsman Service  has 
set out its general  approach to PPI complaints on our website  and published some example  
final decisions that set out in detail  how these relevant considerations may apply to PPI 
sales like Mrs Ms. I dont intend to set that out here but Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
Mrs Ms representative has referred  to Canada  Square breaching certain rules including the 
Insurance conduct rules  ICOB. But for the avoidance of doubt this sale took place in 2001,  
before the sale of general insurance products like this became regulated  by the FSA in 
January 2005.  So the FSAs  and the FCAs overarching principles for businesses and 
insurance conduct rules  (ICOB and ICOBS)  arent applicable to this complaint; and neither is 
the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG).
Ref: DRN43649572key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Canada Square gave advice, whether it advised Mrs M with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs  
and circumstances. 
-Whether Canada Square gave  Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about  whether  to take out the policy,  including 
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent  Mrs M suffered loss or damage  
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation  for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both parties  to this 
dispute, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.
did Mrs M know she had a choice?
 
Canada Square  needed to make  it clear to Mrs M that PPI was optional.
Mrs M says she didnt  know  she had PPI.
Ive seen example  internet screen shots that Im satisfied Mrs M would have likely seen 
when she applied for her credit card. These  allowed her to select whether she wanted to 
include PPI with her credit  card or not  it gave Yes and No options. Ive also seen nothing to 
persuade me that the Yes box was pre-ticked  Mrs M had to select  one of the options to be 
able to proceed with her credit card application.
Canada Square  says and in the absence of sufficient evidence to the contrary, I accept that 
PPI was added when Mrs M applied for the credit  card.
So taking everything into account, I think more likely than not Canada Square  presented  the 
policy to Mrs M as being optional and she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. It 
follows that Im not persuaded Mrs M didnt know she had PPI  not only did she select PPI 
as I said above,  it also appeared  on her credit card statements as a separate  and distinct 
entry for several years.
did Canada  Square provide advice?
Canada Square  says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mrs M disagrees.
I accept the sale took place  online  Canada Squares records show this and Ive not seen 
anything which makes  me think things happened differently. I cant  see that there was any 
direct interaction between Mrs M and a Canada Square representative that would have 
provided Canada  Square with the opportunity to give her advice about the policy.
Ref: DRN43649573Mrs Ms representative points to some of the wording used in the online screenshots, 
including: we want  to be secure  in the knowledge  that should  you have an accident, 
become sick or unemployed, you will need not worry about your card repayments  and says 
this indicates it recommended the policy to her. But I disagree  Ive not seen anything which  
persuades me that Canada Square made  a personal recommendation that Mrs M take out 
the policy. For example  Ive not seen evidence that she was asked a series of questions  to 
allow it to gain an understanding of her specific circumstances and needs or that she was 
led to reasonably believe that shed  been  given advice. Rather Canada Square  alerted Mrs 
M to the fact that she could take out the policy and gave her information  about it.
So looking  at what happened when  Canada Square  sold Mrs M the PPI, Im not persuaded 
that it provided advice.
This means  Canada Square didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable or right for Mrs M. 
But it did have to give her enough clear and timely  information about the policy  so she could 
make an informed decision about it.
the information
Canada Squares  provided us with screenshots it says Mrs M would have seen, together  with the 
policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance of probabilities  applied  to policies like 
Mrs Ms. 
Looking at the information provided to Mrs M at the time, I dont think  Canada  Square gave 
Mrs M the information she fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take out the policy. 
As Ive said,  this was an online sale. I can see that Canada Square described  the PPI policy  
as providing cover against unemployment, accident, sickness, death and serious illness. It 
also informed Mrs M that the policy helped cover  her card repayments  at the cost of 69p per 
£100 of her monthly statement  balance.
I think the information provided  would have given Mrs M a broad sense of the main  things 
the policy covered.  But it was Canada Squares responsibility to draw to Mrs Ms attention  
the important  information   i.e. the key information about the nature of the cover and any 
significant exclusions and limitations, which might be relevant to her decision. 
Im not persuaded Canada Square did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Mrs M, including  the need  to maintain premiums during  
a claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition, I cant  see that Canada 
Square adequately drew  to her attention the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
So I dont  think Canada  Square gave Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy.  
Ref: DRN43649574what effect did Canada Squares shortcomings have on Mrs M? To what extent did 
Mrs M suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Canada  Square didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to 
Mrs M. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mrs 
M suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether or not Mrs M 
would have still taken  out the policy had Canada Square done  things  properly. 
Ive already said this wasnt an advised  sale. So it was for Mrs M to weigh up in her own 
mind the cost of the policy against  the benefits  offered  and the potential consequences  if she 
didnt insure against the risk of being unable to work.
As Ive found above, Mrs M chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. Im mindful 
too that Canada Squares records  show that Mrs M made a balance  transfer onto her new 
credit card  so it appears  she had a balance to protect immediately and this was in her 
contemplation at the time of the sale. 
But I accept she made this decision based  on incomplete information. So Ive gone  on to 
consider Mrs Ms circumstances at the time to help me decide whether  she wouldve still 
taken out PPI in any event. And having  done so, I think its likely she wouldve  still gone 
ahead with PPI. I say this because:
Mrs M was eligible for the cover;
she was employed  and in good  health, so she wasnt  affected  by the key things the 
policy didnt cover such as existing medical  conditions  or unusual employment  
circumstances.
Mrs M had some  existing means   both sick pay and savings. But the policy wouldve 
paid out in addition to these for up to 12 months. And as I said above  it appears Mrs 
M intended to transfer a not insignificant  balance on to the card straightaway.  So I 
think that despite her existing means  the policy couldve  been useful to her; 
particularly given  the fact that with a 10% monthly benefit the policy  had the potential 
to clear the outstanding balance in full. 
Mrs M didnt know everything about  the cost, but it appears to have been affordable.
So, I think Mrs M had some good reasons to take the policy  out. The evidence about Mrs 
Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  wasnt  fundamentally wrong for 
her; she was eligible for its benefits; and it provided cover that, despite its limitations and 
exclusions  including  the fact the policy only paid out for 12 months per claim - could have 
proved useful to her should the insured  risks have become a reality. 
conclusion
Overall and having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider it 
more likely than not that Mrs M would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what she thought she was getting  and I think the policy  could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, notwithstanding the employment benefits shed likely have received 
and her other means.  And in those circumstances I consider it more likely than not that she 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event. 
It follows that I dont think Mrs M has suffered loss as a result of taking out PPI with her 
credit card, so I dont  uphold her complaint. 
Ref: DRN43649575my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4364957