K820x#14complaint
K, a limited  company, complains that WorldPay (UK) Limited made  mistakes  in dealing with 
a chargeback request which meant  that it lost money.
background
K had a merchant service  agreement with WorldPay. On 10 August 2018 it took a card 
payment of £306  from one of its customers.  Arrangements were made to alter the dress 
purchased. In January 2019  WorldPay wrote  to K to say that a chargeback  request had been 
made. K says this was not sent to the correct address and that it was not made  clear  when it 
received this that there was no time by then to challenge the chargeback. K wants a refund 
of the money  it had to pay back including charges.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that WorldPay 
was bound by the rules  of the relevant card scheme  about chargebacks  and gave K 15 days 
to respond to the chargeback request. It had written to K at the address it had. There  was no 
recording of a call in which K says it asked that the address be changed permanently  in 
September 2018. Even if the information  K had provided was received in time it did not 
amount to a defence. K had not shown that ongoing  alterations to the dress were  separate to 
the sale and its customer was not in possession of the dress.
K did not agree. It said that it called WorldPay in September 2018 to extend the date for 
closure of its account. And a package for return of the card equipment was sent to the home  
address of the director. The alteration  was separate as shown in signs  on the wall in its 
premises. And its customer  had refused to collect the dress  and had one item supplied  free 
of charge. K thought WorldPay should have told it on 24 January  2018 that it was out of time 
for considering the chargeback and not given  it the wrong impression.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has said the rules surrounding  the chargeback are set by the relevant 
card scheme. Ive looked at the parts of the terms and conditions  between K and WorldPay  
and these confirm  that K is responsible for reimbursing chargebacks.  And that its up to K to 
provide the information to defend the chargeback.
I know that K stopped operating its retail shop in September  2018. WorldPay has a note of 
Ks call about extending  the deadline for the end of its merchant services agreement  to 30 
September 2018. And that the package for returning  items would be sent to the directors  
home address as shes demonstrated happened. There is no recording of that call and in 
further correspondence with K, WorldPay said that it would have needed K to write  to notify 
a change of address. Ive not seen  that it did so and Im not able to find that WorldPay  made 
a mistake on the evidence  available.
I appreciate that K treated the invoicing for the dress  and alterations  separately.  And says 
that the alterations were being  carried out by the director on a personal basis.  Its shown that 
there were signs in the shop stating that the invoice for the alteration would be separate.  But 
K has not been  able to provide contractual evidence of that. There was correspondence 
between K and the person the dress was for in December 2018 indicating  a dispute  about 
Ref: DRN43422552what had been  done and that the dress  did not meet her requirements. And it was clear that 
the customer did not actually have the dress although K maintained she could have collected 
it. So taking  all this into account  Im afraid I agree  that it was reasonable for WorldPay  to say 
as a result  that the information K supplied did not remedy the chargeback dispute.
K was not in a position to provide information about  this until after the deadline. WorldPay  
said that it had considered  this on a good  faith basis. And it said it wrote  to K on 28 January 
2018 stating that there wasnt the basis for a defence of the chargeback.
I understand how disappointed the director of K was to receive this chargeback request after 
she says K had stopped trading. But Im afraid I dont  have  a basis  to find that WorldPay 
made a mistake or should refund the amount Ks lost.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4342255