K820x#14complaint
Miss M says The One Stop Money  Shop  Limited  (Money Shop) lent to her irresponsibly.
background
I sent Miss M and Money Shop a provisional  decision on this complaint on 
6 December 2019. An extract from that decision appears at the end of this final decision and 
forms part of it.
I explained why this was a complaint this service was able to consider but that it was not a 
complaint I intended  to uphold. I asked both parties to let me know if they had anything  else 
they wanted me to consider. Money  Shop didnt make any new points (in respect  of time 
limits or the merits of Miss Ms complaint). Miss M made a number of points,  including:
asking why Money Shop no longer had the loan agreements  but had some  old notes, 
including records of conversations, about the loans 
that her disposable monthly income  was never  £300
asking why her complaint wasnt upheld despite Money Shop not having  evidence of 
affordability checks
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
I understand why Miss M is concerned that Money Shop hasnt been able to provide  much 
evidence about  the checks it carried out before  lending.  But I dont think the limited  
availability of such information is surprising given how long its been  since the two loans 
were provided in 2011. Its important to bear in mind that businesses are not allowed to keep 
hold of such information indefinitely. For the same reason, its understandable  that Miss M 
has also not been able to provide much  evidence about her circumstances as they were in 
2011. Overall, I still have enough  information  to reach a fair outcome. 
Money Shop didnt,  as Miss M has pointed out, provide  evidence  of having carried  out the 
affordability checks it says it undertook. But its agreed that Money Shop did at least  carry 
out some  checks (Miss  M accepts it did check a payslip)  and given that Miss M only 
borrowed two, relatively small, loans  from Money Shop, I think its likely  the checks Money 
Shop carried  out were  proportionate, bearing in mind the little I know  about  Miss Ms 
circumstances at the time.
Even if I were to find that Money  Shops checks were not proportionate, that still probably 
wouldnt be enough on its own to find the loans were  unaffordable  for Miss M. Id need to 
see enough evidence  to find that proportionate  checks wouldve suggested the loans  were  
not affordable.
As Ive said,  Ive not seen any evidence from Miss M, such  as bank statements, to show me 
her financial  circumstances at the time of the loans. So it wouldnt be possible to recreate a 
proportionate affordability check, even if I thought that was necessary, which  I dont.
Ref: DRN46332882In summary,  my final decision is the same as my provisional decision  in that I think Money 
Shop likely carried out proportionate  checks,  which suggested these loans  were  affordable  
for Miss M. So Im not upholding her complaint. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  Miss Ms complaint against  The One Stop Money  Shop Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February  2020.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN46332883PROVISIONAL DECISION EXTRACT
my provisional  findings  on Miss Ms complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Money Shop needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should  have carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Miss M could repay  the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Money Shop has provided some limited information about the income and expenditure it recorded for 
the first loan. Its records show that Miss Ms income  was recorded as £1,240 per month and that she 
was in full-time employment. The purpose of the loan is recorded as home improvements.
Money Shop says its records show Miss M had disposable income of over £300 a month at the time 
of the first loan and over £200  at the time of the second. So it thinks  the loans were  affordable for 
Miss M. I havent however  seen how Money  Shop  has arrived at this figure as no breakdown has 
been provided  for Miss Ms monthly expenditure.
Money Shops notes also show that Miss M had two satisfied County Court Judgements (CCJs) at the 
time of the first loan and one unsatisfied CCJ. Money Shop  says the unsatisfied  CCJ was discussed  
with Miss M and that she said it occurred  due to her moving home and missing correspondence   
although I havent seen  contemporaneous notes to support this.
Overall, despite the limited information Ive seen, I think its likely Money Shop carried out 
proportionate checks, bearing  in mind the size of the loans,  Miss Ms circumstances at the time and 
the sort of income and expenditure information Id have expected Money  Shop to check. Money Shop 
hasnt provided evidence that it verified the information provided against Miss Ms bank statements 
and payslips  as it says it did  but as Miss M also isnt able to provide this sort of information from the 
time of the loans either, theres nothing to contradict the information Money  Shop has provided.
The CCJs  may provide some evidence Miss M may have  had financial problems,  but the satisfied 
CCJs appear to predate the first loan by long enough that I dont think they could be reasonably  said 
to show  Miss M was in financial difficulty when  she approached Money  Shop. And the discussion 
Money Shop says it had with Miss M about the unsatisfied CCJ is plausible and provides an 
explanation that doesnt necessarily indicate  financial  difficulty. 
As Ive provisionally decided  Money Shop carried out proportionate checks  before lending to Miss M 
and as those checks appear to show the monthly instalments were affordable for her, I do not intend 
to uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN4633288