K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with her home insurer, Aviva Insurance  Limited. She wants it to replace a 
damaged ring but it has said it would repair it. 
background
Mrs Bs ring was damaged whilst  she was moving home. Aviva accepted a claim for it. Mrs B 
wanted to take the ring to her own jeweller.  Aviva  insisted  on sending  it to its own specialist. 
That specialist then sent it on to another, without Mrs Bs permission. Aviva said the ring 
could be repaired.  Mrs B had a number of misgivings about this. Not least that repair  would 
likely involve  loss of the gold hallmark, which she felt would mean the ring would lose value.  
When the ring was damaged other  property  was too. The damage was done  by a third-party. 
Aviva was going to look to recover from that third-party but paperwork was lost. Aviva said it 
would restore Mrs Bs no claims  discount as, without  the paperwork, it wouldnt be able to 
pursue the recovery.
Mrs B remained unhappy  about the repair Aviva wanted to carry out on her ring. Aviva said it 
would give her three options.  It could repair the ring as suggested  and if problems arose with 
that repair, it would review matters. In the alternative Mrs B could take a cash settlement,  for 
the cost of repair (not the value of the ring) and Aviva would pay the retail price for this 
(£460), not its discounted  price.  Finally Aviva said it could return  the ring to Mrs B so she 
could get a report on the possibility of repair from her chosen jeweller and if she sent this to 
Aviva it would reconsider the settlement. Aviva set these options out in its final response 
sent to Mrs B in October 2018.
In December 2018 Aviva tried to return the ring to Mrs B. This wasnt  successful. 
In February 2019  Mrs B complained to this service. Mrs B said repairing the ring wouldnt 
make it as new as Aviva  was required to do by the policy. Losing the hallmark  would mean 
the ring loses value and it cost her £1,700 in 1998  so taking £460 in cash just wasnt an 
option. She said Avivas  specialist had caused delays and lost paperwork.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She felt Aviva had acted fairly and reasonably.
Mrs B was upset as she felt Aviva  had acted unfairly. She said it had bullied her in the first 
instance to make her send it the ring when shed wanted her own jeweller to look at it. So it 
wasnt right to say it offering to send the ring back now was fair. In any event, Aviva, Mrs B 
said, hadnt returned the ring to her and it wasnt clear  where  the ring now was. She said 
Avia hadnt  confirmed in writing that it had reset her no claims discount. She said the policy 
had been mis-sold to her  she had no idea Aviva was the insurer, that wasnt  who she 
bought it from and she wasnt sent proper  terms.
It was noted that the policy contains an exclusion for jewellery  damaged whilst moving. Aviva 
told us that it thought  this exclusion had likely been overlooked when  it had accepted the 
claim for the ring and sought  to provide  settlement.
Ref: DRN47722292my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, with regret for any upset 
my decision  causes Mrs B, Im not minded to uphold her complaint against  Aviva.
Ive mentioned above some activity which occurred in December 2018 regarding Aviva  
returning Mrs Bs ring. Mrs B has been upset about this and what  happened after that return 
attempt. However, I cant comment on what happened regarding the return (or non-return) of 
the ring within  this complaint. That is because this complaint  was made in respect of the final 
response Aviva issued in September  2018.  It is the situation  in respect of the concerns 
Mrs B drew  to Avivas  attention and which led to the final response that form the basis  of my 
considerations and decision. If Mrs B wants Aviva to consider a complaint for her about 
activity which occurred  after that final response, she should tell it so. 
Likewise Mrs B hadnt complained to Aviva about  the no claims discount not having been 
confirmed in writing. On that note Mrs B may wish to check  her 2019 policy renewal to see if 
that details the discount. If she remains unhappy  she should contact Aviva.
Aviva is the insurer for Mrs Bs policy. The policy is branded and sold by another  company. If 
Mrs B is unhappy about the way the policy was sold she should contact the seller.
Turning to how Aviva handled this claim  I can see that Mrs B is frustrated both by Avivas 
initial insistence on taking  the ring away but also by its wish to attempt a repair.  Aviva though 
is entitled to have its own specialist look at the ring and to attempt a repair. Whilst 
I understand that Mrs B feels how the ring should be handled should be her choice, that isnt 
what the policy allows. The policy requires Aviva  to put the policyholder, as closely as 
reasonably possible, back into the position they were before the loss. So an item doesnt  
have to be returned exactly as it was before. The policy  also allows  Aviva  to choose to repair  
or replace. There is an option to reinstate too, which is similar to repair but a term used 
mostly in regards to building  damage. Or Aviva can settle in cash at the price it would cost it 
to repair  or replace. Aviva has gone  beyond  the last option mentioned here by confirming it 
would settle at the retail price for repair if Mrs B chose that option.
Whilst I see that Mrs B had a valuation  completed in 1998,  Id emphasise that Avivas offer of 
cash, at this time, isnt based  on the value of the ring itself. The £460 offered is what Aviva 
thinks it would cost Mrs B to have the ring repaired.
Mrs B clearly  has misgivings about  whether repair  is a viable option. But unless Aviva  tries to 
repair it and this isnt successful, or Mrs B gets a report  from an expert which  suggests  repair  
isnt viable (because the ring wouldnt be restored or it would lose value, for example), I cant  
reasonably require Aviva to do more than it has already offered to do. Thats  because  the 
policy entitles Aviva to its choice and its expert says the ring can be repaired. Beyond that 
Aviva has agreed to consider further  evidence if Mrs B provides  it. I think that is fair.
Ref: DRN47722293I appreciate that Mrs B has doubts that Avivas position will change even if she provides 
evidence, and that if she is to do that, shell need the ring back. Whilst I understand Mrs Bs 
concerns, we cant know what Aviva will do until a report is received and considered by it. If 
it considers it and Mrs B is unhappy  with what it says then shell  be able to raise a further  
complaint. Whether  Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably in light of the new evidence 
provided can then be considered.  Whether  Mrs B decides  to purse this any further or not, 
she should get her ring back, Aviva should  contact her to arrange its safe receipt.
Aviva has recently noted an exclusion that, had it been spotted at the outset  of the claim, 
might have meant Aviva could reasonably  have declined liability  for the damaged  ring. Aviva  
hasnt suggested  that it now intends to rely on that exclusion regarding Mrs Bs claim moving 
forwards. I think thats reasonable   it would be too late now to rely on this exclusion when 
the claim has been accepted and a debate exists about fair settlement.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Aviva  Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4772229