K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  didnt act fairly or reasonably when dealing 
with his home emergency claim. He wants a full days pay in compensation.
background
Mr M had a home emergency  policy with Aviva. His boiler needed work. Mr M said that he 
took the day off work to wait for the engineer,  but none appeared, despite messages saying 
that the engineer was due that day. Mr M said that hed lost a days  pay due to Avivas  
incompetence (as he was self employed),  and that it was unfair  and unreasonable.
Mr M complained to Aviva. It accepted that due to an error, the engineer was booked to 
attend on another day. It also said though that the appointment was only for a half day and 
Mr M was told at 9.49am  that the engineer  wasnt coming, so he couldve gone to work. It 
offered £80 compensation for the inconvenience.
Mr M complained to us, saying that as he earned  £550 a day, he was considerably  out of 
pocket. The investigators  view was at first that Mr M should receive  half a days  pay 
(including the £80 already offered) as he couldve  gone to work  after being told the engineer  
wasnt coming. He said that Aviva  had made  a mistake and didnt give Mr M reasonable 
notice to go to work in the morning. The investigator thought £275 was fair and reasonable 
compensation for Mr Ms trouble and upset.
But Aviva disagreed and pointed  out that there  was no evidence Mr M didnt actually  work  
and couldnt have worked from home. It also noted that the amount a particular consumer 
earned didnt generally affect compensation as it was better  to view the matter from a trouble  
and upset point  of view (otherwise, higher earners received more  than lower  earners for the 
same inconvenience). Aviva also pointed  out that Mr Ms contract  of work was dated after 
the missed appointment and his home was also his registered office.  The investigator 
accepted that this service didnt award  compensation  for direct loss of earnings; Aviva 
pointed out that the view didnt explain why such a high amount had been awarded.
my provisional decision  
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Theres no dispute that Aviva made  a mistake and caused trouble and upset to Mr M. The 
issue is the compensation which  should be paid for that mistake. 
As Aviva points out, we dont generally  award  compensation based  on a consumers income. 
This could  lead to one consumer receiving more than another for the same mistake and 
same trouble  and upset.  I accept though that the self employed  are viewed differently to 
those who are employed and when they have used a days  holiday to wait for an engineer,  
but they still need to prove  financial loss.
Mr M hasnt  shown any financial loss. He hasnt provided as requested a letter from the 
person for whom he was due to work  showing that he didnt attend work  and wasnt  paid. He 
hasnt explained  why he couldnt work from his home, which is also his registered office, 
particularly as he works in a field that can be done  from home. The invoice  he has supplied  
shows Mr M was paid for 21.9 working days;  the month only had 22 working days  so on the 
face of it, Mr M didnt suffer any financial loss which has been the fault of Aviva. And given 
Ref: DRN45115992the time of day that he was told that the engineer wasnt coming,  I think  its fair and 
reasonable to have  expected him to attend  work  and carry out at least  a half days work, if 
not more.
Having considered the evidence available to me, I dont  think  that its fair or reasonable for 
depart from our usual  position or to award compensation for financial loss that hasnt been 
proved. I do think its fair and reasonable to award compensation for the trouble and upset 
Mr M suffered due to the failure to send an engineer on the date notified. I accept entirely 
Mr M was frustrated  and irritated. But £80 is fair and reasonable compensation for this in my 
view and theres no evidence justifying more.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Aviva  accepted my view but Mr M didnt. He felt that 
it was clear from his contract that he had to work  on site and that his invoice didnt show  any 
financial loss as he worked overtime, evenings and weekends.
Ive considered what Mr M has said, but if hes able to make  time up by doing overtime  or 
working on evenings  and weekends, then Im still of the view that he hasnt suffered financial 
loss which  justifies more  compensation. And if he can undertake extra work, then he 
couldve worked later that day to make up the lost time from Avivas non-attendance. I dont 
think the circumstances justify departing from this services usual position (as set out in my 
provisional decision),  and £80 is fair and reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr M by Aviva.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject  my decision before 
5 December 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4511599