K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains, on behalf  of Mrs D and the late Mr D, that Pacific IFA Limited gave 
unsuitable investment  advice.
background
Mr and Mrs D initially saw an adviser  for Pacific in 2012 who wrote a short  letter identifying 
their key concerns  as being the equity release mortgage they had taken out in 2001 and an 
income. 
This was followed by the adviser completing  a detailed fact find in March 2013 and a 
suitability report in May 2013 in which he set out his recommendations. He advised  
Mr and Mrs D to transfer their existing ISAs to a new provider and also surrender their joint 
investment bond  and reinvest the proceeds in ISAs  as well. He recommended  all 
investments to be put in the F & C MM Navigator Distribution. A further  £10,000 from cash  
reserves was also then invested in the fund.
Pacific didnt uphold  the complaint. It said that Mr and Mrs D wanted tax efficient income and 
the advice to invest in ISAs  was suitable in the circumstances. 
One of our investigators  considered the report but didnt think  Pacific had done anything  
wrong. He said the adviser for Pacific had met with Mr and Mrs D towards the end of 2012 
and they had said they wanted additional income  and that the fact find completed in 
March 2013 also recorded this. He said that the tax efficient investments recommended by 
the adviser which provided the additional income  they wanted were  suitable. He noted  that 
Ms Ds main  issue  with the advice  given to Mr and Mrs D to take out money by way of an 
equity release mortgage but this was in 2001  and he said the advice from Pacific was 
separate.
Ms D made the following  comments in response  to the investigators opinion:
Mr and Mrs D were left with £23,000 not £33,000  as he had said because they were 
persuaded to invest a further £10,000.
Mr and Mrs Ds capital is now depleted  to just £24,000.
The adviser they saw was someone introduced to them  by the adviser  who had 
originally advised them to take out the equity  release mortgage,  and at their age they 
wouldve been beyond  them to seek alternative  advisers.
The adviser advised them that the dividend from the £25,000  he recommended  they 
invest would generate the income  they wanted.
The adviser never responded to Mr and Mrs Ds request to look at the equity release 
mortgage.
It is presumptuous of Pacific to assume  that the mortgage couldnt  be paid off when 
they havent gone into this with the family.
She wants to know when the adviser  stopped providing advice and fund 
management because  as far as she is aware  this was shouldve  been  provided until 
2018 but she has seen nothing after 2013.
She would  like to know what fees have been charged since  2013.
The suitability report completed by the adviser recorded that there was no mortgage 
liability, which is untrue.
The report also indicated that performance of the investments would be between 
12% and 20%, which was also untrue.
Ref: DRN46999662The adviser mishandled the transfer  of Mr Ds ISA in 2018 and she complained  and 
compensation was awarded.
They have not advised about  losses to Mrs Ds funds and although a small amount of 
compensation has been offered for the performance of her ISA, this is only for recent 
losses not those  in the past.
Over  the whole period that Pacific dealt with Mr and Mrs Ds financial affairs Mr D 
had dementia so advice shouldve been directed to Mrs D but wasnt.
The promise to keep  capital and to keep investment  in line with loan cost has gone  
wrong.
How could the current adviser manage the funds if he didnt meet with 
Mr and Mrs D?
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint arises out of Ms Ds unhappiness with Mr and Mrs D being  advised to take 
out an equity release  mortgage in 2001  which advice isnt the responsibility of Pacific.  
When Ms D complained to the business  responsible for that advice it suggested  any liability 
it had was only up to the point Mr and Mrs D received investment  advice  from another  firm. 
This was in 2005  and again  wasnt Pacific. But as a result of the argument put forward by the 
original business  Ms D has complained to all businesss that were  responsible  for providing  
investment advice to Mr and Mrs D from 2001  onwards.
Ms D has raised a number of issues in relation to the investigators opinion which have not 
been put by her to Pacific previously and arent  part of this complaint. We are only able to 
consider a complaint if this has been  first put to a business and it has had the opportunity of 
responding. So although I have  set out her response to the investigator to include these  
points I am not considering any failure  by Pacific in relation to the service it provided after 
the investment  in 2013. 
If Ms D wants Pacific  to look into the issues she has raised about the service provided  and 
the fees paid after 2013 she should notify  it accordingly and it will investigate this as a 
separate complaint.
With regard to the investment advice the subject of this complaint I have seen an initial  letter 
dated 12 December  2012 from the adviser  to Mr and Mrs D referring to having met them and 
discussing their thoughts for the future. He refers to their key concerns being the equity 
release mortgage  and income and noted they wanted an additional  £200  each month.  He 
also states that he has taken steps  to discuss the equity release mortgage to see if there is 
anything that could create a simpler  solution  that takes the worry away.
I have seen an investment suitability report  dated 9 May 2013. Mr and Mrs Ds objectives are 
identified as capital  growth but also an income of £185 each month and that they wanted  
investment that was tax efficient. 
This report refers to Mr and Mrs D completing a risk profile questionnaire which  identified  
they were medium risk investors  five on a scale  of one to ten. But the report  goes on to say 
that after discussions it was agreed that Mr and Mrs D would prefer  a more cautious 
approach to investments.
Ref: DRN46999663The report  records that Mr and Mrs D would ideally take a deposit  based route but that they 
understand that to try and preserve capital they need to take a level of risk with potential for 
loss and capital  erosion.  In other  words  the report shows  that Mr and Mrs D were  aware  they 
needed to take more  risk than they wouldve  ideally wanted to achieve  the income they 
wanted whilst trying to preserve capital.
The adviser recommended that Mr and Mrs D each transfer their ISAs to a different provider 
and invest in the Navigate fund.  He also recommended that they sell their joint investment 
bond and each invest in an ISA into the same fund.
Im not satisfied that the recommendation made by the adviser  was unsuitable in the 
circumstances given  Mr and Mrs Ds objectives and the fact that they accepted  they needed 
to take some  risk to achieve those objectives. So I dont think  the fund he recommended was 
unsuitable for their needs in the circumstances - and investment through ISAs achieved  the 
tax efficient savings  they wanted. So I think overall the recommendations were suitable. 
Ms D has said the adviser persuaded Mr and Mrs D to invest  a further  £10,000 into the same  
fund. It isnt clear whether  this further investment  was at the suggestion of the adviser or not. 
But it still left them with sufficient money  in cash reserves so if this was based on the 
advisers suggestion I dont think the advice was unsuitable anyway.
Ms D has also referred to the suitability letter referring to a return  of between  12% and 20% 
and that this was untrue. But the suitability report doesnt suggest  performance will be 
between 12% and 20% or at any particular  level. The only reference  to performance I have 
seen in the suitability report shows the actual performance of their existing investment in one 
particular fund in the three  years 2010 to 2012 with this being 12.5% in 2010  and 20.2%  in 
2012 and a negative return in 2011. 
Firstly this is actual performance to date not a promise of performance  in the future. 
Secondly it isnt the fund the adviser  recommended  they invest in anyway. The performance  
for that fund was shown as 11% in 2010 and 13.3% in 2012 and as with the other  fund a 
negative return in 2011. 
The suitability report did state there  was no mortgage liability but I dont think  anything turns 
on this. The fact find recorded the equity  release  mortgage amounting  to £160,000  and it is 
clear that the adviser was aware  of this. The fact that the suitability letter  doesnt record this 
doesnt make the advice  unsuitable or otherwise  suggest the adviser did anything wrong.  
There was obviously some discussion about  the equity release mortgage  and 
Mr and Mrs Ds concerns  over this. Given the amount owing was at this point around 
£160,000 this isnt surprising. The letter of 2012  say the adviser  is going  to look into what  
might be done about this. There is no record  of any further discussion although Pacific has 
stated that the adviser has said he discussed the only option being  sale of the house  and 
downsizing which Mr and Mrs D didnt want to do. 
Although there is no record  of this I think it is more likely than not there  was such  a 
discussion. If the adviser hadnt discussed this I think Mr and Mrs D wouldve have chased 
this up given this had been  mentioned as a concern in 2012.
Given their ages at this time I dont think there was much alternative  to what  the adviser 
suggested. I note Ms D has said it was presumptuous of Pacific to assume  the mortgage 
couldnt be paid off without discussing this with the family. But Pacifics  obligations  were  to 
Ref: DRN46999664consider Mr and Mrs Ds own financial circumstances, not the wider  family finances. I think  
that if Mr and Mrs D wanted to involve their family  that was a matter  for them,  not Pacific.
Given their available  capital at the time and the amount of the outstanding mortgage  I dont 
think Mr and Mrs D shouldve been  advised  to pay off the mortgage. Even if the amount paid 
off was limited to the amount  used for investment of £50,000  plus accrued interest this 
wouldve amounted  to around £120,000.  
If they had used all of their available capital  at that time towards repayment of the mortgage 
this wouldve  meant they wouldnt have received the additional  income they clearly wanted. 
There is nothing to suggest they were  prepared to forego  this income in order  to pay off the 
mortgage - which  didnt require any payments to be made by them  on an ongoing  basis.
I note Ms D has referred to Mr D suffering from dementia in 2013 but there  is no evidence of 
this. And Mr D signed a Lasting Power of Attorney appointing Ms D as his attorney in 2017  
so had capacity  at that time. In the circumstances I have seen nothing  that would suggest 
Pacific shouldve been aware  Mr D couldnt  understand the advice provided in 2013.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reason I have explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D on behalf  of 
Mrs D and the late Mr D to accept or reject  my decision before 5 March  2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4699966