K822xcomplaint
Mrs E is unhappy HSBC UK Bank  Plc closed her loan account and registered  a default on 
her credit file. She says this was contrary to the advice it had given her.
background 
Mrs E took out a loan in January 2017.  In June 2018 she told the bank  she was struggling  
financially. It agreed to suspend interest  and charges and gave  her a three-month  repayment 
break. It offered the same plan in September 2018, and in December 2018 it agreed to a 
reduced repayment plan for three  months. 
Mrs E says the bank  told her as long as she stayed  in touch the account wouldnt default. 
She recalls the bank  said whilst her credit score would be affected, there would be no long 
term marker on her credit file.  
The bank defaulted her account after serving the required notice and demand.  And reported 
this to the credit reference agencies.
Initially our investigator didnt recommend Mrs Es complaint should be upheld. She said she 
had listened to calls between Mrs E and the bank in June and September and looked at the 
follow up letters. And she found all communication to be clear  in setting out what  had been 
agreed and that her account would default  if she missed a total of seven repayments. She 
said the bank  had made no error  when it issued  a default notice on 1 November 2018 and a 
final demand on 26 November 2018. Mrs E then called  the bank in early December and a 
reduced repayment plan was agreed for three  months. Mrs E says she was told this would 
stop the account defaulting. There is no call recording  but the account didnt default  during 
this period so our investigator said it was possible this may have been agreed.  However the 
follow up letter made clear the collections process was ongoing and other default notices 
and formal demands could still be issued. So she couldnt find the bank had misled  Mrs E at 
this stage.
A final demand was then sent on 28 January 2019  requesting payment in full by 15 February  
2019. Mrs E says she spoke to the bank in early February and was told that had been sent 
in error  and she set up a new payment  plan to run to May 2019. Meanwhile, as payment in 
full wasnt received by 15 February 2019 the bank started the process to close  the account 
and register the default. At this stage the bank couldnt find any record of this last call and 
our investigator concluded,  overall, the bank  had done nothing wrong in the way it had 
managed Mrs Es account.    
Mrs E disagreed and sent times and dates of six other calls she had made  to the bank 
between February and April 2019.  The bank was able to find and provide four of these calls. 
Our investigator listened to them and said shed found no evidence that changed her 
conclusion that the bank  had correctly defaulted Mrs Es account and fairly recorded this 
information on her credit  file. She said again  on the calls in February and early March the 
bank gave accurate  and not misleading  information about her account status. It also made 
clear Mrs E should call back on 28 February 2019 but she failed to do so. She did however 
find that it had provided misleading information that gave Mrs E the wrong expectation 
during the call on 20 March 2019.  For this she recommended the bank should pay £100 
compensation to Mrs E. The bank agreed to this.
Ref: DRN48465152Mrs E disagreed that this was a fair outcome. She asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint saying, in summary there was now evidence  the bank had lied on three occasions
(about calls in November and December 2018  and the repayment plan ending  May 2019); it 
has given two different  account closure dates;  its final response letter just said it had made  
no errors and didnt consider her points; why could the bank not have called her on 27 
February 2019; and ultimately the banks  offer of £100 compensation and refusal to remove  
the default is unfair after it misled her.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, and for largely the same reasons.
Mrs E told us the bank  led her to believe the various payment plans would prevent her 
account from defaulting, and from any associated record being  registered with the credit 
reference agencies.  But I can find no evidence from the calls or letters that this was the 
case.
There is evidence, as our investigator said, that it misled her on the call of 20 March 2019.  
But when deciding  what  the bank needs  to do to put this right I have to think about what 
would have happened if it had provided the correct information then.  And given the status of 
Mrs Es account by this stage it would not have  prevent the account from defaulting. So I can 
find no grounds to order  the bank to remove the default. Mrs E failed to make her contractual  
repayments and the bank  advised her what could happen. It sent her all the necessary  
documentation. I note Mrs E said she never received the first final demand but Im satisfied it 
was sent, and to the correct address, so I cant hold the bank liable for the non-receipt. And 
it subsequently issued a further final demand on 28 January 2019. The bank had been clear 
that Mrs E needed to call before the third payment plan ended and she failed to do so. Whilst 
I understand why she feels  it should  have reminded her, I cant  fairly conclude it made an 
error it needs to put right by not doing  so. Overall, I think  it met its obligation  to act positively 
and sympathetically  towards Mrs E whilst  she was having financially difficulties. It suspended 
interest and charges and gave two three-months payment  holidays,  as well as agreeing to 
reduced payment  plans.
With regards the account  closure  date, I think the wording  in our investigators  second  view 
may not have best explained  what HSBC  said.  Mrs E is right the closure  date was 20 March 
2019, but at the time of her call on 7 March 2019  it seems she was advised her account  was 
transferring to HSBC  Repayment Services to close and this could take 14 days. 
I can understand Mrs E is frustrated that the bank didnt initially provide all related call 
recordings, and I would  have expected it to have completed a more  comprehensive search  
first time round. Likewise its final response  letter  is very cursory  and I can see why Mrs E 
might not have confidence  it had completed a full investigation. However, neither of these  
points changes my conclusion about how it has managed  Mrs Es debt.
It follows I can find no grounds  to tell HSBC to remove the default recorded  on Mrs Es credit 
file. It is an accurate reflection of how the account was managed and the bank 
communicated clearly  to Mrs E for the most part. The only exception to this was the 
misinformation provided on the call of 20 March 2019, but the correct  information here would 
not have prevented the account from defaulting. I find the offer of £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset  HSBC  caused by misinforming  Mrs E to be fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN48465153I say this as Ive thought about  how frustrated  and annoyed Mrs W must have been when it 
became clear shed  been given the wrong information on that call, but also about the fact it 
was clarified within two days;  where  her account then was in the collections process; and the 
fact all the other related information  she was given about her account - both verbally  and in 
writing - was correct and clear. 
my final decision
My decision  is HSBC  UK Bank Plc should  now pay Mrs E £100  compensation by cheque in 
full and final settlement  of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4846515