K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited.  He isnt happy about  
the way it settled a claim on his car insurance  policy.
background
Mr S was involved  in an accident  with another  car in August 2018 and Mr S made  a claim 
under his policy.
Advantage reviewed  the information provided by Mr S including  what  he told them about the 
accident and decided Mr S was liable. So they settled the claim from the other drivers 
insurer in full. Mr S doesnt  agree with Advantages decision and doesnt believe they 
investigated his claim properly.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr S concerns. She said Advantage had reasonably  
investigated Mr S claim before making  their decision on liability. Mr S disagreed.  He said 
that since the accident happened, the local authority has looked at the layout of the 
roundabout where the accident happened. And decided the layout needed changes  to make 
it safer. As a result  of this, Mr S remains of the opinion that he wasnt at fault for the 
accident. So the complaint has been  passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
I appreciate Mr S feels very strongly that Advantage shouldnt have settled the third partys 
claim. The terms and conditions of Mr S insurance  policy say Advantage can take over and 
deal with a claim in Mr S name. This means  they have the right to settle a claim against  
Mr S if they think this is the right thing to do. Advantage  have a lot of experience in handling 
claims and understanding  the chances  of successfully  defending claims at court which  is 
time consuming and expensive. But, at the same  time, wed expect Advantage to take a 
reasonable approach and properly investigate the claim and consider all the appropriate 
evidence before they do this. 
Mr S says he doesnt understand how Advantage have been  able to decide liability  if the 
local authority have since changed the layout of the roundabout. Mr S says the previous 
layout was a contributing  factor to a number of accidents like his. 
I can appreciate Mr S concerns and frustration about this. But, Advantage decided who was 
liable for the accident based  on the information they had available to them. So whilst  it may 
be the case the layout of the roundabout has changed now,  Im satisfied Advantage decided  
liability based on the information  available to them at the time of the accident and the 
individual circumstances  of the case. 
Mr S says Advantage  decided things without fully investigating his claim. Looking at the 
information provided, I think they did investigate the claim properly. 
I say this because  I can see they considered all the information provided by Mr S when he 
first contacted them. They made notes of what he told them about the accident and looked at 
Ref: DRN46230722the images of the accident that Mr S sent. Advantage also spoke  to the other  drivers insurer 
to get their version  of events before deciding liability. From looking at all the 
evidence/information, they felt that the other  driver was already  established  on the 
roundabout when Mr S came across  the other drivers path from the outside lane. So 
Advantage felt that it was more likely that Mr S would be held liable for the accident. And 
without any independent witnesses or evidence I dont think that they acted unreasonably. 
Advantage settled  the claim on a without prejudice  basis. This means that if Mr S still 
believes that the claim could be defended, he is free to take legal advice and pursue the 
third party through  the courts.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4623072