K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains about Ageas Insurance Limited and its rejection of a claim under  his policy. 
background
Mr T holds  a policy with Ageas that covers  him for tools  stolen.  He made a claim under this 
cover in June 2018 following the theft of tools from his van. Ageas declined  the claim as they 
felt its circumstances  didnt fit the policy requirement  of there being forcible and violent  entry 
to the vehicle. Mr T complained to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and upheld the complaint, saying Ageas 
should meet  the claim subject to other policy terms and conditions. Ageas doesnt  agree, so 
the case had been passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I too am upholding  the complaint, for the same reasons as the adjudicator. 
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that there was a theft. I do note a large  amount of tools were  
stolen but from the timeline it might be that the thieves had access to the vehicle for a long 
enough period.  As there was a theft it is for the insurer  to show that the exclusion clause 
should apply,  and that it is fair and reasonable to apply it. Im not sure they have done so. 
I accept the policy requires the use of forcible  and violent means to access  the vehicle. Mr T 
says this was the case as there are scratch makes  around the lock, that he contends shows  
it was broken into. However, he also says that the police suggested  a key fob signal device 
may have  been  used,  although that would probably mean violent  entry wasnt  used.  That 
confusion aside though I need to look at what a fair and reasonable decision would be. 
I note the cover here is an add on, and has its own separate premium. That being so it is 
something people  choose to have  and they would  also have an expectation  of being covered 
in most circumstances. As, unfortunately, in this day and age key based theft is common  I do 
wonder if the idea of not covering people for this risk but continuing to sell theft cover  is 
appropriate. When keyless entry is so common  making this type of theft out of scope of 
cover would probably require some  very clear  sign posting as to the possible  consequences 
of the exclusion, and Im not sure I have enough evidence of this. 
My view is that it wouldnt be fair to use the exclusion to defeat  the claim in these 
circumstances. There does seem  to have been a theft and given the lack of witnesses, the 
lack of CCTV, and the scratches around  the lock I cant be sure that forcible means werent 
used to gain entry to the vehicle. 
So I do think  the claim should be considered again. But, as the adjudicator  said this will 
mean looking at it alongside the other  conditions of the policy,  in particular there  does seem  
to be an excess payable  and Ageas  dont  seem to have commented on the proof of loss 
Mr T has provided.  So Mr T should  be aware  these matters will still need to be dealt with 
once the claim continues.  
Ref: DRN41328902my final decision
Ageas Insurance Limited should reconsider the claim  without the violent and forcible  entry 
issue, but taking  account of the other policy terms and conditions. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4132890