K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with legal  fees added to their mortgage account with 
Mortgage Express.
background
Mr and Mrs P fell into some difficulty maintaining the payments due on their mortgage with 
Mortgage Express. So last year, they decided to sell a second property and use the 
proceeds to pay off the mortgage altogether. 
In October  2018, Mr P advised  Mortgage  Express that contracts had been  exchanged on the 
property sale, but completion had been  delayed. So he asked Mortgage Express to extend 
an ongoing reduced payment arrangement. They  said they would, but only on receipt  of 
evidence of the exchange of contracts. As they didnt get that, they continued  with steps  to 
recover the debt.  And on 6 December 2018, they wrote to Mr and Mrs P with notice that 
theyd instructed solicitors  to apply for a court hearing. 
Mr and Mrs P contacted Mortgage Express on 10 December.  Having sold their other 
property, they said theyd be paying off the mortgage in full. A redemption  statement  was 
requested and issued a couple of days later. That said the amount required to redeem was 
£142,719.17. That included costs  of £699.40  in respect of the legal  action. 
On 15 December, Mr and Mrs P sent Mortgage Express a bankers draft for £142,019.77   
theyd deducted  the £699.40, asking that those  fees be cancelled. When they declined, 
Mr and Mrs P complained. But Mortgage  Express stood by their decision. So Mr and Mrs P 
paid the disputed amount, and referred  their concerns to us. 
Our investigator thought Mortgage  Express had been entitled to instruct  legal action when 
they did, but that they ought  to have halted that action once Mr and Mrs P said theyd  be 
paying off the mortgage  in full  and given them time to pay. He thought  costs  up until 
proceedings were  issued  came to £235.20,  so he said Mortgage Express should refund the 
remaining £464.20 which was for work that wasnt necessary.
Mortgage Express didnt  accept our investigators view. They said that action wouldnt be 
suspended while the account  was still in significant  arrears, and that the costs  had been 
added in line with the mortgage  conditions and its own policies  and procedures.  So they 
asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint, and it was passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator  and for broadly the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mortgage  Express were  entitled to initiate the legal action when it 
did: the account was in significant arrears and there was no payment arrangement in place. 
They had given  Mr and Mrs P ample  and appropriate notice of the possible next steps, 
including that costs for such action would be passed on to them.  And the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage allowed for that to happen, as is standard practice  across  the 
mortgage industry.
Ref: DRN44145012There is, though,  a further question as to whether some or all of the costs  were fairly applied  
in the individual circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ps situation. Legal  action was instructed on 
6 December, but they were in touch with Mortgage Express  just four days (and two working 
days) later to advise theyd completed their sale and would be settling the mortgage in full. 
So I think its legitimate  to query how much legal work was really required and therefore how 
much Mr and Mrs P ought to have  been  billed for.
Like our investigator,  I think legal  action could and should have been halted on 
10 December. Mr and Mrs P had consistently advised that they were selling a second 
property to settle the mortgage in full. So when  that plan came to fruition there was no need 
for further  legal action.  Mr and Mrs P just needed a final redemption figure and, once they 
had one, they paid the balance promptly (albeit minus the disputed costs). I appreciate, from 
Mortgage Expresss point  of view, that theyd had difficulty in evidencing the progress of the 
transaction previously. But I think it ought to have been fairly  straightforward to satisfy 
themselves that the sale had gone through.
Given this, I dont think it would be fair for Mr and Mrs P to have to pay for any legal work 
carried out after they confirmed to Mortgage Express that the sale of their second  property  
had completed.  
To that end, weve asked  Mortgage Express for a breakdown as to when certain  work  was 
carried out. Theyve not provided one. We have  a breakdown of the work involved, but not 
the dates on which the various activities were carried out. Mortgage Express say that 
regardless of the dates, the costs  are still payable as work was required while  the balance  
remained outstanding.  But for the reasons above, I dont agree with that.
With limited evidence as to when the solicitors took the various actions, I cant  say with any 
certainty which costs were incurred before Mr and Mrs P got in touch with Mortgage Express  
on 10 December, and which came  after. But I think the split suggested by our investigator is 
reasonable, in that it acknowledges some initial work wouldve been required by the 
solicitors and its reasonable for Mortgage  Express to recover  the costs of that work 
(£235.20) from Mr and Mrs P. However  as it wasnt necessary  to pursue the claim through 
the courts, the majority  of the costs  ought not to have been incurred (£464.20). 
So in the circumstances, I think a fair way to put things right is for Mortgage  Express  to 
refund legal costs  of £464.20 to Mr and Mrs P.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and require 
Mortgage Express to pay them  £464.20.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 December  2019. 
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4414501