K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  wont initiate a chargeback 
for payments made towards  a holiday club membership. 
No discourtesy is intended towards Mrs E, but in this decision Ive only referred to Mr E. This 
is because I can see it was Mr Es account the payment was made from, making  him the 
eligible complainant under our rules. Id like to assure both Mr and Mrs E that in reaching  this 
decision, Ive taken into account  all the information  provided to me. 
background
In September  2013 Mr E paid £2,924.63 (€3,477.00)  by debit card and £9,000 by bank 
transfer towards a holiday club membership.  
Mr E has told us hes not received anything in return for his investment. Hes said he was 
told to expect various benefits  which  he never received, and that he was able to book 
holidays cheaper himself. Mr E says the holiday club membership company used high 
pressured sales techniques and didnt inform  him of the 14 day cooling off period.  
Mr E feels  he has been completely misled and mis-sold by the holiday club membership 
company and has no other option but to claim his money back.
Mr E contacted Nationwide in July 2017 to ask it to refund the amounts hed paid.
Nationwide said there are time limits for claiming chargebacks  on debit card disputes. This is 
a maximum of 120 days to dispute  a transaction which can be extended to 540 days in some 
circumstances. Nationwide also considered whether Mr E could make  a claim for a refund  
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, but concluded that he couldnt as the 
payment had been made by a debit card. 
But Mr E says it was only after years of broken promises and poor service that he came to 
the conclusion  there  is a breach of contract. And hes said that as hes become the victim of 
a scam his claim should be valid under  the time limits. 
I can see Nationwide offered Mr E £50 compensation in recognition  of delays  in receiving a 
response to his further concerns. Nationwide  has told this service that the £50 compensation 
has not yet been paid but that this offer still stands.  
The investigator didnt  think Nationwide had done anything wrong. She agreed that the 
chargeback request was made  too long after the transaction happened. 
Mr E remained unhappy  with this, so the complaint has been passed  to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Es complaint. Having done so, Im in agreement with 
our investigator that Nationwide  hasnt done anything wrong, so Im not going to ask it to 
refund Mr E. Ill explain  why. 
Ref: DRN42504912Generally speaking, a chargeback is the process by which payment settlement disputes are 
resolved between card issuers and merchants, under the relevant card scheme rules. 
What this means here is that Nationwide can in some  circumstances  ask for a transaction to 
be reversed if theres  a problem with the goods or services supplied  by the merchant Mr E 
paid. The chargeback process isnt guaranteed to result in a refund. There first has to be a 
right to apply for a chargeback  under  the card scheme rules  in this case  the Visa 
chargeback scheme.  Id consider it to be good practice for Nationwide  to raise a chargeback 
if it would  have a good chance  of being  successful.  But I dont think  it wouldve been here as 
Mr E was already out of time when he first contacted Nationwide.  
As mentioned above, there are time limits set by the scheme  providers and this is of 
particular relevance  here.  The chargeback rules say that a chargeback  has to be raised  
within 120 days from when the payment was made or 120 days  from the last date the 
cardholder expected to receive the merchandise or services. The rules  are strict and a 
chargeback cannot  be initiated at all if its been  more than 540 days  since  the payment was 
made. 
Ive acknowledged  what Mr E has said in relation to the time limits and why he feels  he 
made a claim in time.  Hes said the breach of contract did not happen at the same  time of 
purchase  but years  after the date of purchase  when he started to experience  poor 
standards of the product and service. Mr E feels that in being  a patient and trusting customer  
of the holiday  club membership company  allowing them the chance  to fulfil the contract 
and resolve the problems   hes now being restricted  when trying  to claim his money back.  
Its clear Mr E feels  strongly  about  this matter, but I have to keep in mind that the timescales 
for applying  for a chargeback are strictly set in the card scheme  rules.  I accept Mr E raised 
the matter with Nationwide as soon  as he could, but this was many  years after the payment 
was made.  And Nationwide doesnt  have any discretion to extend  these  time limits.  Because 
of this, I dont think it did anything wrong  by not attempting to chargeback  this transaction.  
I can understand how upsetting this is for Mr E and I accept its likely Mr E has been the 
victim of a scam. I can also see why Mr E didnt contact Nationwide sooner, but for the 
reasons Ive given,  there is nothing further that Nationwide  could do. So while  I know Mr E 
will be very disappointed  with my decision,  I dont think Nationwide has done anything 
wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  and, I find the £50 compensation previously 
offered to be fair in the circumstances. Nationwide Building Society  should  make the 
payment if it has not already done  so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Staci Rowland
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4250491