K820x#14complaint
Mr E says St Andrews  Insurance  Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. The policy  was sold by Halifax Insurance Ireland Limited but St Andrews  has 
accepted responsibility for the sale and complaint.
background
Mr E took out the policy by post in 2004  to protect  his mortgage repayments. It gave him 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. He paid a monthly  amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Es complaint. Ill explain why. 
St Andrews  had to make  it clear to Mr E that the PPI was optional   and he had to agree to 
take it out. St Andrews has provided  evidence  showing Mr E completed a Mortgage 
Repayment Cover Acceptance form that he received by post. He signed and returned this 
together with a direct debit mandate for the cost of the PPI. The form set out the cost of the 
PPI separately.  And there was nothing on the form that I think could reasonably have led him 
to believe the cover was mandatory. 
So, overall, I think St Andrews made it clear to Mr E that the policy was optional,  and he 
chose to take it out. 
St Andrews  didnt recommend the policy to Mr E so it didnt have to check the policy was 
right for him. But it had to give Mr E enough  information so he could decide if he wanted  to 
buy it. 
Its possible the information the business gave him wasnt  as clear as it should have been. 
But I dont think he wouldve been put off taking  out the policy if he had received better 
information. I say this because:
Mr E was eligible  for the policy given  his circumstances  at the time and the policys  
terms and conditions.
Mr E wasnt affected by anything that limited the policys main  benefits. So I think it 
unlikely he needed  better information  about the policys  exclusions and limitations.  
Mr E cant recall  his sick pay entitlement but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to any 
work benefits for up to 24 months. He had savings  worth less than three months salary 
but the PPI would have  allowed him to use these for other  living expenses whilst  not 
Ref: DRN41555792working, or to keep  them intact for his future needs. So I think the PPI offered Mr E 
useful protection  if he lost his job or was sick.
-The cost and benefit were set out clearly on the acceptance form Mr E signed and 
returned. 
In summary,  it seems  Mr E chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted  this 
type of cover. I think its unlikely he wouldve made  a different decision if better  information  
had been provided  overall, I think he would still have taken out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mr E lost out because  of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4155579