K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the cash in lieu settlement Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
offered him for repairs to his car after a claim made on his motor  insurance policy. Hes also 
unhappy that it wouldnt pay to repair the cars  cruise control. 
background
Mr P made a claim on his policy following an accident. Admiral made him an offer of cash in 
lieu of repairs. Mr P was unhappy  with this and Admiral increased  the offer. But Mr P 
remained unhappy with this. He was also unhappy  that Admiral  wouldnt pay for repairs to 
his cars  cruise control  and with its level of service.  Admiral agreed  that there had been 
some service failings and it offered Mr P £150  compensation  for this. 
Our adjudicator initially recommended that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought 
Admiral should have covered repairs to the turbo  affecting the cruise control as she thought  
there was evidence the damage was caused by the accident. She also thought  it should  pay 
the cost of a report  Mr P had done  about  this. But further evidence  was provided. She then 
thought it was unlikely that the cars turbo  had been  damaged in the accident affecting  the 
cruise control, and this was due to wear and tear.
The adjudicator thought  Admirals settlement offer for the other  damage  was fair and 
reasonable as it was based on a dealerships estimate. She thought Admirals  offer of £150 
compensation for the delays in the claim was fair and reasonable. She also thought  Mr P 
could have his repairs done at an approved repairer or use the cash payment to have  them 
done elsewhere. 
Mr P was unhappy with the change in the adjudicators view.  He thought the turbo had been 
damaged in the accident. He said hed paid for it to be repaired on the understanding that 
hed be refunded for this cost. He said hed split the costs in the case of a deadlock. He was 
also unhappy that Admiral had undervalued the repair costs at its approved repairer. Mr P 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman,  so its come to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P offered  to speak directly with me if that was needed. But Im satisfied that I have 
sufficient evidence available  in order to understand his concerns and reach a decision about  
his complaint. 
Mr P was unhappy that the adjudicator changed her view on his complaint. But I think  it was 
reasonable for the adjudicator to consider the further  evidence  made available. Like the 
adjudicator, I have considered all of Mr Ps concerns,  but I have focussed on those concerns 
that seem  to be most  important to him. 
Mr P said the turbo had been damaged in the accident and this then affected his cars cruise 
control. He wanted  Admiral to pay for this repair and the report  from the repair centre.
Ref: DRN43086002The adjudicator has already explained  that this service doesnt assess whether or how 
damage to a vehicle  would  be caused  as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, 
the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints  is to determine 
whether an insurance  company has considered all the available evidence  and whether it can 
justify its decision to not pay for additional repairs.
Theres no doubt that the turbo had a broken  part. So Ive looked  to see what  evidence 
Admiral considered to decide that this wasnt accident-related. I can see that Admiral relied 
on the initial report from an independent  engineer to decide that this damage was unrelated 
to the accident.  The accident impact was at low speed to the rear of the car whilst  the turbo 
is in the engine at the front. The assessor  said hed seen other  cars where  thered been  
greater impact yet the turbo wasnt damaged. 
The garage that repaired the turbo said the damage  was a common  fault,  not that it was due 
to the accident.  So I think there was no evidence that the turbo had been  damaged  in the 
accident. The fault could have occurred  at any time.  
Admiral said it would consider a report from the repairer and pay for it if it showed that the 
damage to the turbo was accident-related.  I can see the adjudicator explained this to Mr P 
and he agreed  to obtain a report.  The report didnt show the turbo  damage was accident-
related. So I think  it was reasonable for Admiral to decide that this wasnt  related to the 
accident and so decline to pay for the repair or the report Mr P obtained. 
Mr P was concerned that there was a difference between what Admiral  offered as cash  in 
lieu of repairs and a final estimate for these repairs provided by the approved  repairer. Ive 
looked at these and I can see that theres a year between the estimates  so I think  some  
increase would be expected. 
Further, Admiral said its offer included a discount provided by the approved garage.  I dont 
think thats unusual.  Mr Ps estimate from the approved  garage  wouldnt include this. In any 
case, Admiral still offered  to pay for the cost of the repairs at the approved garage.  From 
what I can see, Mr P went ahead with this. So I cant  say that this caused Mr P any loss.  
I think Admiral  reasonably considered and responded to Mr Ps other concerns with its 
handling of his claim. It agreed that there  had been  failings in its level of service. It put this 
right and it paid Mr P £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused him. I think thats 
fair and reasonable as its what Id require  in similar circumstances. I dont require Admiral to 
increase this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4308600