K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained about  advice they received from St. Jamess  Place  Wealth  
Management Plc in September 2001 to take out a Life Cover Plan (LCP) - a reviewable 
whole life policy written  on a joint life, second death  basis to mitigate a future Inheritance Tax 
(IHT) liability. They are represented by their son, Mr W2.
They say this policy was sold to them on the understanding  that the annual premium  would 
be fully funded by a capital withdrawal they made each year from an investment bond  
St Jamess Place set up for them as a Gift and Loan arrangement  to reduce their IHT 
liability as well.
But, in addition to the LCP being reviewable,  Mr and Mrs W applied for the level of cover  to 
be increased each  year by five per cent. After  15 years, annual  indexation  of the life cover 
had increased  the premium three-fold,  which had become unaffordable to Mr and Mrs W. In 
any event, this was contrary  to their understanding that the policy premiums would be self-
funded from the Gift and Loan  Bond.
Mr and Mrs W were sold a complicated investment  strategy, suitable only for sophisticated 
investors, which they were not. 
background 
In September  2001, according  the paperwork completed by the adviser, Mr and Mrs W were 
in their early-70s and late-60s respectively and were both in good health.  Their self-
employed annual  earnings gave them a net disposable income of more  the £2,300 per 
month and they owned an estate valued  at almost £2,000,000,  of which  more  than 50 per 
cent was property. 
In addition, they held various investments worth around £600,000 between them, including  
PEPs, stocks and shares, investment bonds, ISAs  and premiums bonds,  plus almost  
£200,000 on deposit and in bank accounts.  
So, their estate was potentially subject to a significant future IHT liability at that time of 
almost £700,000. Mr and Mrs Ws attitude  to investment risk was given as three (on a scale 
of one to five), or balanced.
  
St. Jamess Place recommended Mr and Mrs W to surrender an investment bond and to 
invest its value in a Gift and Loan  Bond to mitigate  some of their estates potential  IHT 
liability. They  were also advised to take out the Life Cover Plan,  written  in trust, to provide a 
lump sum to beneficiaries which would fall outside  their estate on second  death to pay some 
of the actual IHT liability.     
In principle, while the Gift and Loan  Bond and the Life Cover Plan are separate  policies, 
they operate together,  as follows:
the Gift and Loan Bond enabled  Mr and Mrs W to reduce the value of their estate that 
would otherwise be subject to IHT without gifting away much of the investment and 
the Life Cover Plan provided their beneficiaries a capital sum to repay some of the 
IHT the remaining value of estate  incurred on their deaths  while  payment of the 
policy premiums could  further  reduce the value  of their estate that would  otherwise  
be subject to IHT.
Ref: DRN45877212In principle, the Gift and Loan Bond allowed Mr and Mrs W to loan the trustees a capital 
sum of £39,224, which is repaid to them by the trustees through  five per cent annual capital 
withdrawals of £1,961.  In this way, as long as Mr and Mrs W spend  these  withdrawals, the 
sum of £39,224 is gradually removed from the value of their estate. 
So, if either Mr or Mrs W live 20 years, the loan would be fully repaid and the sum of £39,224 
is removed from their estate altogether for IHT purposes. If both Mr and Mrs W died in the 
meantime, the bond  would be surrendered and the outstanding balance of the original loan 
still owed by the trustees (after deducting the capital withdrawals received by Mr and Mrs W) 
would be repayable by them to the estate and subject to IHT. But any growth made  by the 
Bond in the meantime sits outside  Mr and Mrs Ws estate and would not be subject to IHT. 
On the other hand, the Life Cover  Plan is a reviewable whole life policy, set up to pay a 
capital sum on second death (when an IHT liability is triggered) in trust for the beneficiaries.  
As such,  the claim payment (which would enable the beneficiaries to pay some IHT) does  
not form part of Mr and Mrs Ws estate. 
The policy was set up on a standard  sum assured basis, which, according to the policy 
provisions, gave it the best chance  of the annual  premium  not having  to increase at future 
reviews to maintain  the existing level of life cover. The annual premiums  to the policy  can be 
exempt from IHT under HMRC annual exemption and normal  expenditure rules.  The 
annual withdrawal of £1,961 for the Gift and Loan  bond comes within  the £3,000 annual 
exemption limit, but it wouldnt be exempt under normal expenditure rules because the 
withdrawals are strictly payments of capital to Mr and Mrs W, and not income. 
St Jamess Place has confirmed that Mr and Mrs W have stopped the annual  premiums to 
this policy  after November  2015,  when the level of life cover  it provided was approximately 
£185,000 having paid total annual premiums of £50,500. 
So, if Mr and Mrs W had died at that time,  the policy would  have  paid £185,000 to the 
beneficiaries outside  their estate, free of IHT, to pay the remaining IHT liability while  the 
policy premiums reduced the value  of their estate by £50,500  if, in all likelihood, those 
premium payments were  exempt from IHT. 
The adviser recommended Mr and Mrs W to set the sum assured under the LCP at 
£112,700, for an annual  premium of £2,250. But the level of cover was reduced  to £98,000 
when the annual premium was set at the amount  withdrawn from the Bond of £1,961. There 
is some  dispute as to whether Mr and Mrs W insisted on the LCP being self-funded in this 
way or the policy was sold to them as being  self-funded from the Bond.
But Mr and Mrs W did agree to index  the sum assured by five per cent per annum and this 
increased the annual premium  progressively  over time by more than five per cent to the 
extent that it reached  £5,860 by November  2015.
At the policy reviews in 2006 and 2011,  Mr and Mrs W opted  to leave the annual premium 
and the sum assured unchanged until the next review  when  the premium  could  increase 
significantly. But, as the annual premium  was indexed between  reviews, this helped to 
support the level of life cover until the 2016 review when Mr and Mrs W were required to 
increase the premium to almost £11,000  per annum to maintain the level of life cover  at 
£185,000. Otherwise,  the sum assured would reduce to £131,000 for their existing annual 
Ref: DRN45877213premium of £5,860.  This prompted Mr and Mrs W to stop the annual  premium to the LCP 
which cant now be reinstated. 
    
St Jamess Place offered  Mr and Mrs W a refund of the two annual premiums  they paid in 
2014 and 2015, plus interest,  due to misleading information it provided  of the future  
premiums and levels of cover they could expect under the policy  that encouraged them to 
continue the policy.
The complaint was investigated by one of our adjudicators, who thought  it couldnt  be 
upheld. Briefly, she said that:
Mr and Mrs Ws financial objective was Inheritance Tax planning and the LCP was an 
integral part of the recommendation  to meet that objective;
their attitude to investment risk of four (out of five), or mildly speculative, seemed 
reasonable given their investment  history  and experience. The choice of investment 
fund appeared  to fit their attitude to risk;
they wanted an income which  would  come from the capital withdrawals  they received 
from the Loan Bond;
the recommendations were clearly set out in a suitability letter dated September  2001  
which confirmed that the adviser  recommended them to set life cover under the LCP 
at £113,000 for an annum  premium  of £2,250 funded from their savings.  But 
Mr and Mrs W wanted to fund the LCP from the Loan Bond withdrawals of £1,961  
which reduced life cover to £98,000;
the adviser recommended them to index life cover  life cover each year by five per 
cent which would increase cover  to £119,000 by year five and to £152,000  by year 
10. These annual  increases in benefits  would require an increase in premium  and, as 
the annual withdrawal from the Loan Bond was fixed at £1,960, Mr and Mrs W would 
need to find the additional  premium;
the suitability  letter confirmed that the primary purpose of the LCP was to provide 
beneficiaries a capital sum to help mitigate their IHT liability;
In 2007, Mr W requested the annual premium to the LCP to be reduced to £1,960,  
and this would have reduced  the sum assured  to approximately £69,000. He decided  
not to change the policy;
the 2006 and 2011 reviews enabled  Mr and Mrs W to defer any premium increases 
until the next review,  so no premium increases arose out of the two reviews.
All things  considered, the adjudicator didnt feel the LCP had been  misrepresented  to 
Mr and Mrs W even  though she appreciated their concern over the potential  increase in 
annual premiums at future reviews.  
She noted St Jamess Place had accepted that information it provided Mr and Mrs W in 
February 2014 about the future cost of the LCP was misleading and may have unfairly 
encouraged them to continue the policy. She therefore felt that its offer of a refund of the two 
annual premiums they paid in 2014 and 2015, plus interest, was a fair outcome. 
In response, Mr W2 disagreed with the adjudicators  assessment and said that:
the main selling point of the LCP was that the annual  withdrawals  from the Loan 
Bond would cover the annual premiums and the arrangement was therefore  self-
funding. This failed to happen  and the cost of the policy  has become out-of-control;
two letters from St Jamess Place in 2013 and 2014 which  persuaded Mr and Mrs W 
to continue the policy were misleading  and full of factual inaccuracies. That St 
Ref: DRN45877214Jamess Place has offered to refund the two annual premiums Mr and Mrs W paid 
since February 2014 doesnt address the shortcomings in the original advice;
he questioned  the authenticity of a suitability  letter on which  St Jamess  Place  based  
its defence as it included statements which support their case  that dont appear in the 
suitability letter Mr and Mrs W actually received at the time. Even if this suitability  
letter did exist (as a draft),  it still didnt  warn Mr and Mrs W that the annual 
withdrawals from the Loan Bond would be insufficient to meet future  annual  
premiums to the LCP;
Mr and Mrs Ws attitude to risk was genuinely  three (out of five) or balanced and 
this has been  altered  to four on the factfind;
even if the key feature document  for the LCP supports the case  put forward  by St 
Jamess Place, it isnt consistent  with the selling  point  that the LCP would be self-
funded from the Loan  Bond;
there was no scenario planning carried out by St Jamess Place to test the future 
affordability of the arrangement and it hasnt  provided information hes requested;   
St Jamess Place didnt follow its complaints procedure in that it failed to 
acknowledge the complaint within five days or issue a final response letter within  
eight weeks.       
 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been referred to me for review.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to stress that the issues Ive considered  are those that materially  affect the 
outcome of this complaint. I should also add that, if Mr and Mrs W have any issue with the 
outcome of the policy reviews in 2006  and 2011, they would  need  to take these up with the 
product provider, which is not St. Jamess  Place  Wealth Management Plc.  
So, while Ive noted that Mr W2 has said shortcomings exist in the paperwork surrounding 
the advice Mr and Mrs W received in 2001, my assessment of their complaint largely  
considers whether or not the advice  they received was fundamentally suitable for them. 
As such,  I dont think issues, such as whether  Mr and Mrs Ws attitude to risk is balanced or 
more speculative, or that St Jamess  Place  hadnt strictly followed its complaints procedure,  
have much bearing on my decision. Neither am I able to comment on, or make good, the 
investment performance  of the Loan  Bond.
 
I also must have regard mainly for the evidence that exists from the point of sale 
(notwithstanding that Mr W2 has questioned the authenticity of some of that evidence)  and 
the concerns raised by Mr W with St Jamess Place since 2007  about the merits  of the 
advice.
Mr and Mrs W havent said IHT planning wasnt an appropriate financial need to satisfy. 
Their complaint concerns the operation and funding  of the LCP in conjunction with the Gift 
and Loan arrangement they were recommended to meet  this objective. They maintain they 
were assured the LCP would be fully funded from the annual withdrawals they received from 
the Loan Bond.
Ref: DRN45877215On reviewing details  the adviser took of Mr and Mrs Ws financial circumstances in 2001, I 
dont appreciate why their future  potential IHT liability  was given as around  £186,000,  when 
the value of their estate  suggests that this liability would be significantly more than that. 
St Jamess Place has been unable to explain why their potential tax bill would appear  to 
have been understated.
Nevertheless, I have considered whether  the advice Mr and Mrs W received was suitable to 
mitigate some, if not all, of their potential liability.
The drafted  suitability letter provided  by St Jamess  Place (whose authenticity  has been 
questioned by Mr W2) advised Mr and Mrs W to take out a LCP providing life cover of almost 
£113,000 for an annual  premium of £2,250. The adviser did note in this suitability letter  that, 
following further discussions, Mr and Mrs W wanted to fund this policy  from the annual 
capital withdrawals of five per cent they would  receive from the Loan Bond. The letter  
confirms the adviser  recommended  them to pay the annual premiums not from these annual 
withdrawals but from their savings, and that the level of life cover  provided by the LCP 
should increase  by five per cent per annum.
Notwithstanding how the annual premium  would be funded, the adviser provided 
Mr and Mrs W an illustration for the LCP which showed that, with indexation, the death 
benefit would increase  to approximately £119,000 by the fifth year and £152,000 in the tenth 
year at an annual premium of £2,500 and £3,700 respectively. Mr and Mrs Ws original 
application for the LCP was duly altered to provide initial life cover  of £98,000 at an annual 
premium of £1,961  in the first year,  this cover being written on a standard sum assured 
basis and indexed at five per cent each year thereafter. 
 
While Ive noted Mr W2s suspicions about  the authenticity of this suitability letter,  and 
whether Mr and Mrs W ever received  a copy of it, on balance, from the evidence  set out 
above, it seems reasonable to believe that discussions  did take place between the adviser 
and Mr and Mrs W over the agreed terms of the LCP. Significantly, the illustration  and 
suitability letter is supported by the warning in the key features document for the LCP that: 
Whenever  your cover is increased,  including any increase  resulting  from indexation,  your 
contributions will go up by a greater proportion than the increase in cover because the risk of 
dying increases with age.
I dont disbelieve  Mr and Mrs W when they say that, in re-setting the first annual premium to 
the five per cent capital withdrawal from the Loan Bond of £1,961, they thought  the LCP 
would be fully funded from the Loan  Bond thereafter. But both the Loan Bond application 
and the illustration confirmed that the capital withdrawals  were fixed  at five per cent of the 
original amount invested of £39,224,  and not five per cent of the ongoing value of the Bond.
So, given Mr and Mrs W applied indexation  to the level of life cover,  that would increase the 
annual premium by increasingly more than five per cent each year as they grew  older,  the 
LCP was never likely  to be wholly funded from the Bond.  In my view, there is sufficient 
evidence for Mr and Mrs W to have known that they would always  need  to supplement these  
withdrawals to pay the annual premiums  after the first year. And that the annual premium  
would almost double  by year 10. 
By November 2007, its evident that Mr W was concerned about the escalating cost of the 
LCP and asked to reduce the annual  premium back to £1,961. This would have reduced life 
cover to around £69,000. 
Ref: DRN45877216But, while Mr W2 says Mr and Mrs W were  persuaded by misleading  information to leave the 
LCP unchanged, I havent seen evidence they were provided any such information before 
the policy was reviewed again in 2011,  when life cover and the annual premium had 
continued to increase to £145,000  and £3,800  respectively.  
It is also worth pointing  out that the annual premium  didnt increase following the 2006 or the 
2011 review because Mr and Mrs W opted each time to defer any changes to the policy and 
continue paying  the same level of premium for the same sum assured until the next review.  
So, all premium increases  to November 2015  were due entirely to the application  of annual 
indexation, and not to any adverse review.  By 2016, the policy  provided  life cover of 
£185,000 for an annual  premium of £5,860. Its evident this premium  was affordable to 
Mr and Mrs W and was within their combined annual  exemption limit for IHT.  
Mr W2 has confirmed that Mr and Mrs W were able to pay the excess  premiums to the LCP 
from income until 2012 when they needed to use their savings.   
When the LCP was reviewed again in 2016,  Mr and Mrs W werent allowed to defer  any 
premium increases, and life cover would reduce to £131,000 unless  they paid almost 
£11,000 per annum to maintain the death  benefit at £185,000. This prompted them  to take 
alternative advice  and stop the annual premiums  after November 2015. 
I do appreciate Mr Ws concern at the escalating cost of the reviewable  LCP and that St 
Jamess Place hadnt offered any future scenario planning. But, such  is the complexity of 
costing a reviewable whole life policy that it was wasnt possible for St Jamess  Place  to be 
at all precise about the annual premiums Mr and Mrs W might need to pay at future  reviews.  
It did, however, provide  them  accurate  illustrations  in 2001 of future annual premiums  after 
five and 10 years if life cover was indexed at five per cent each year. And the adviser did set 
up the LCP on a standard sum assured basis to minimise the prospect of future adverse 
reviews.   
Above all, the advice Mr and Mrs W received in 2001 was intended to mitigate a significant 
future Inheritance Tax bill. It is, therefore, the benefits provided by the Loan Bond and the 
LCP, and not just the cost of those benefits, that should be considered  when assessing 
whether the advice would  meet this objective.
I have, therefore, summarised Mr and Mrs W financial  position in November 2016 when they 
decided to discontinue premiums to the LCP, as follows:
If both Mr and Mrs W had died, the LCP would have paid a capital  sum of £185,000 
to their beneficiaries  that fell outside  their estate. Also,  the total premiums of £50,500  
(of which they contributed £21,000 from their resources) were likely to have been 
exempt from IHT.
while the annual  premium required to maintain life cover of £185,000 escalated to 
£11,000 at the 2016  review, given the respective ages of Mr and Mrs W, the 
likelihood was that the LCP would still pay a capital sum on death that would be 
significantly more than the premiums they paid;
under  the Loan Bond,  the trustees  (through the annual capital withdrawals) paid back 
to Mr and Mrs W almost £29,500. So, all but less than £10,000 of the amount they 
had originally invested in the Bond has fallen outside their estate. And the gain it has 
currently made of more than £33,000  falls outside  their estate  for IHT purposes  as 
Ref: DRN45877217well. In other words, more than £62,000  of the Loan Bonds total value of £72,000 
avoided IHT.
       
In my view, through the LCP and the Loan Bond, Mr and Mr W were recommended an 
effective way of (a) reducing the value of their estate for IHT purpose without simply gifting 
away their money and (b) providing  a capital sum to meet any tax liability  without that capital 
sum being subject  to IHT.
It seems  to me that Mr and Mrs W were  able to pay the annual  premiums to the LCP, albeit  
from deposit savings  as well as from income. 
Also, I fully appreciate Mr and Mr Ws concern at the escalating  cost of the LCP for annual 
indexation of the life cover. Nevertheless, as long as the amount payable  from the LCP on 
their deaths  remained  significantly  more than the total annual  premiums they paid, this policy 
would meet their IHT objective as well.
While I cant know  precisely what Mr and Mrs W were told at outset, I dont think they could 
have expected the LCP to be fully funded from the capital withdrawals alone because  the 
withdrawals were fixed, the policy was reviewable and included indexation of the life cover. 
The annual premiums  at review in 2006  and 2011 did need  to escalate significantly to 
continue supporting the existing level of cover. But Mr and Mrs W opted  to defer any change  
in the premium and sum assured until the next review. So, the cost of the policy  while 
Mr and Mrs W held it was not adversely affected by the outcome of each review - all 
increases in the annual premium were due to indexation of the death  benefit each year.
However, it seems that, in February 2014, St Jamess Place  did provide Mr and Mrs W 
projections of future annual premiums and death benefit under  the LCP in response to their 
requests for scenario  planning. 
It has since agreed that this information  was misleading and offered to refund the two 
premiums they subsequently paid in November 2014 and November  2015,  plus interest, plus 
£500 for the inconvenience this matter  will have caused them. Given  Mr Ws strength  of 
feeling at how the cost of the LCP was unfolding, I agree its possible Mr and Mrs W might 
have discontinued the LCP before they paid these  two annual premiums  if they had been  
provided more realistic information about  future annual  premiums.
Otherwise, I do accept that there are shortcomings in the presentation of the advice to 
Mr and Mrs W by St Jamess Place  in 2001.
But, on balance, Im inclined to believe that the advice Mr and Mrs W was suitable for their 
objective of reducing  their estates IHT liability because, in all likelihood, the benefits of the 
two policies would have outweighed their cost and given their estate a significant  tax saving.
   
decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Mr and Mrs W should consider whether or not to accept the offer made  by St. Jamess Place 
Wealth Management Plc in its letter dated  11 May 2017, which  is still open to them.  But it 
should recalculate its offer to included interest  to-date.     
Ref: DRN45877218Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 April 2019.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4587721