K820x#14complaint
Miss A says Yorkshire Building  Society (Yorkshire) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Miss A took out a PPI policy  with a mortgage  in 1997. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy. The policy  provided cover  for unemployment only.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss A disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss As case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss As complaint. Ill explain  why.
I cant know what Miss A discussed with Yorkshire at the time. She said she didnt 
know she was paying for PPI and didnt need  it. Ive seen  her mortgage application. 
She ticked the box to say she wanted mortgage payment insurance  and signed  the 
application form. Her mortgage offer said that she had elected  to take out PPI cover 
and that it would cost £9.01 per month for unemployment cover only. It said it was 
free for the first six months. So, I think Yorkshire  Bank made Miss A aware that PPI 
was optional and she decided to take out the cover.  
I also think it likely that there wouldve been a discussion about  PPI as Miss A only 
took out unemployment cover. She didnt take cover for accident and sickness, so I 
think it likely  that she made a choice to take the level of cover that she thought best 
suited her needs.
Yorkshire didnt recommend the PPI to Miss A, so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for her, but it did have  to give her enough clear  information so that she could make 
an informed choice  about whether the policy was right for her and she wanted to buy 
it. 
The policy seemed  appropriate for Miss A and she was eligible to take it out. She 
said she wouldve got sick pay if she was off work sick, so that might be why she 
opted for unemployment cover only. She said she had some savings. The policy 
wouldve allowed her to keep  hold of these to meet her other household expenses 
and wouldve paid her mortgage  repayments  for up to 12 months per successful 
claim, if she was made  unexpectedly unemployed. She also said her partner 
wouldve helped out too. But, help of this kind cant always be guaranteed  when  the 
time comes, as circumstances can change, so I havent placed much reliance on this.
Its possible Yorkshire couldve  given  Miss A clearer information. For example  I dont  
know when it pointed  out the main  things the policy didnt cover.  But Miss A doesnt 
Ref: DRN48762412appear to have been affected by any of the main exclusions  or limitations  on cover 
and I think she wouldve known what she had to pay for the policy  before it was 
added. So, I dont think she wouldve made  a different decision and not taken the 
policy, even if she had been given clearer information.
Ive taken into account everything that Miss As said.  But, I cant see that she has lost 
out because of anything that Yorkshire  has done wrong. So, it follows that I dont 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2019.  
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4876241