K820x#14Complaint
Mrs E complains that she was mis-sold life cover  by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
(originally Sun Life but I will refer to as Aviva throughout). Shes  represented by her 
daughter. She says English  is not her mothers first language and she didnt understand the 
information given  to her at the time of sale. 
Background
In July 1997, Mrs E took out a whole of life assurance policy designed to cover  the costs  of 
her funeral.  The premium  was set at £14 per month  and the death benefit was £2,445.
Mrs Es daughter complained on her behalf saying the policy  was mis-sold. Aviva says the 
policy was taken out after Mrs E replied  to an advert  and was sent a pack  containing an 
application form, which she returned to agree to the policy. It said it didnt recommend the 
policy to Mrs E, it only provided information  for her to decide whether the policy  was suitable 
for her needs. And the information it gave her explained the policy  in particular the key 
features explained  the benefits and risks involved. For these reasons it didnt think the policy  
was mis-sold. 
 
I issued a provisional decision in November 2019  I didnt uphold  the complaint.  In 
summary I was satisfied the policy was sold without advice and the information provided  to 
Mrs E made was clear  enough to allow her to make an informed choice about the policy.  
This is what  I said:
Mrs Es daughter hasnt said that her mother received any advice to take out the policy or 
spoke to an advisor. So, it seems most likely the policy was taken out as Aviva  explained  - 
through Mrs E responding to an advert. In other  words, it was sold without a personal  
recommendation. This means Aviva  wasnt responsible for the suitability  of the policy. But it 
did still need to give Mrs E clear information for her to decide if the policy  was right for her. 
Ive reviewed the documentation  Aviva  has provided. It has sent me a copy  of the brochure it 
says would have  been part of the pack given to Mrs E before she applied  for the policy.  The 
documentation explains  how the policy works  and the aim of it was to pay out a lump sum on 
death. Because the policy had a fixed sum assured and premium, it was possible that more  
could be paid in than paid out in the event  of death. This was listed  as a risk factor in the 
brochure in a prominent section. So, it does seem the policy  was explained  in a clear and 
balanced way. 
Ive considered what Ive been told about English not being Mrs Es first language. Aviva has 
sent me a copy of a phone note from around the time the policy  was taken  out. This confirms  
that Mrs Es daughter  would be taking all phone calls on her mothers  behalf due to her not 
speaking good  English.  So, it does  seem Mrs Es daughter provided support to help her 
understand the policy she was taking out. As explained above, I dont think  Aviva  provided 
advice to Mrs E to take out the policy, so it was for Mrs E to decide if the policy was right for 
her. Im satisfied Aviva provided sufficient  information for Mrs E to make  that decision and it 
appears that she did this with the support of her daughter. For this reason, I dont think it 
would be reasonable to say that Aviva  has done something wrong.
Mrs Es daughter has told us her mother was suffering from mental health issues at the time 
the policy was taken out. Aviva says the policy didnt require any medical  underwriting,  and it 
Ref: DRN43260972had no knowledge  of Mrs Es health.  I also havent  seen anything  to suggest Mrs E told 
Aviva anything about her health at the time she applied for the policy. As Aviva  didnt provide 
advice to Mrs E, there was no requirement to asses her needs or ask about her 
circumstances. While  I have no reason to doubt what  Ive been told about Mrs Es health, as 
Aviva was unaware of her situation and didnt  provide advice, I dont think  there is more it 
should have done during the sale.  So again  I dont find that Aviva did anything wrong here.   
Ive considered the concerns raised  by Mrs Es daughter about  not being  informed  of the 
change to Aviva being  responsible for the policy. The policy was with Sun Life originally but 
later changed to Aviva. Aviva says it would have told Mrs E but doesnt hold a copy of the 
letter that was sent - so I dont know exactly what she was told. But I havent seen anything  
to suggest that the terms of the policy were changed when Aviva took over.  For that reason, 
I dont think Mrs Es has been disadvantaged.  
I asked both parties to let me have any further  comments they had. 
Mrs Es daughter responded on her behalf.  In summary she said:
-She doesnt feel the medical evidence that was supplied has been  properly taken  into 
account. 
-Her mother was not of sound  mind when  taking out the policy and Aviva  shouldnt 
have been allowed  to make profit out of the situation.
-Aviva  has now agreed to partially  refund some of the premiums  and the policy has 
been cancelled.
Aviva hasnt provided any further  information for me to consider. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully reviewed the response to my provisional decision received from Mrs Es 
daughter. I want to reassure them I did review  all the medical  information  that they provided 
in deciding this complaint.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that I hadnt  found that Aviva  recommended  the policy 
to Mrs E. This means that it didnt  need to ask questions about Mrs Es health or personal 
circumstances to check that it was suitable for her. It only needed to provide information 
about the policy to her that was clear,  fair and not misleading  to allow her to decide 
whether the policy  met her needs. 
Ive considered whether there  is evidence  to suggest Aviva was aware of anything about 
Mrs Es health. But I havent found that it knew of Mrs Es health problems when it sold the 
policy. So, when it was providing information to her, I dont think it was in a position  to 
understand how Mrs Es health may affect  her understanding  of the policy.  And Ive also 
seen a note from the time that says that telephone communication was to come  through  
Mrs Es daughter. So, it seems reasonable  for it to assume  that Mrs E did have  support in 
proceeding with her application for the policy. 
While I do empathise with Mrs E and her daughter about the situation, in order  to uphold  the 
complaint, I need  to be satisfied that Aviva  have done something  wrong.  Based on the 
Ref: DRN43260973evidence Ive seen,  I dont think it did. So, for this reason Im not recommending that Aviva 
needs to do anything.  
However, Ive noted the comments from Mrs Es daughter to explain that Aviva has offered 
to refund some of the premiums. It seems Mrs E has now cancelled  the policy and accepted 
a partial refund of premiums. This appears  to be a decision Aviva made unconnected to this 
complaint, so I dont  think it impacts  on my consideration of it. But it does allow Mrs E to 
receive some money back if she believes she no longer needs the policy.  
For the reasons  explained above and those  in my provisional decision, Im satisfied the 
policy was sold without  advice and the information provided to Mrs E made was clear 
enough to allow her to make an informed choice about the policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Daniel Little
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4326097