K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains Shop Direct Finance Company Limited has failed to honour promises  to 
refund the costs  of phone calls related to a complaint he made about a catalogue account 
order. He says it also added unfair  charges and interest to his account.  He wants  the 
account closed  and balance written off. 
background
Mr T tells us he placed an order in October 2016.  But due to various problems the items  
could not be supplied. So he had to place another  order.  He says he was promised £100  to 
cover the cost of premium  phone calls he made  to pursue  his complaint. He also says 
SDFCL agreed he didnt need  to make payments and no interest would be charged. But he 
says its added interest to his account.  Mr T tells us hes spent two years  trying to sort things  
out and doesnt feel hes getting anywhere.
SDFCL told us that Mr T placed  an order for two items  on 7 October 2016. In early 
November 2016  it said Mr T was advised of a delivery date and £30 was credited to his 
account as a gesture of goodwill. But on 7 November it said the order had to be cancelled  
and a credit  was applied to his account  to cover the cost. It said a credit of £24.99  had also 
been applied  to cover  the delivery charge. It said Mr T placed another order  on 7 November. 
In July 2018, SDFCL said a cheque  for £60 had been issued to cover any out of pocket 
expenses incurred by Mr T in 2016 - but as of January 2019 this hadnt been cashed.
It said it could find no evidence Mr T had ever been  promised  a refund of call charges. But it 
did acknowledge that there had been a failure to return one of his calls regarding the delays 
which had resulted in cancellation and the need  to reorder items.
Subsequently, SDFCL  told us Mr T had been placed  in a payment arrangement for his 
standard catalogue account and no interest  had been charged from 30 December 2017.  But 
his Buy Now Pay Later  (BNPL) account, which involved a period of deferred  interest,  would 
be charged if the items in that account were not paid for in full by the due date.
And it confirmed it was willing to offer an additional  £40 for any distress  and inconvenience 
caused.
The adjudicator recommended Mr Ts complaint  should be upheld. He said the payments for 
the first order on 7 October  2016 had been refunded to Mr Ts account  on 7 November.  And 
that SDFCL had refunded the delivery costs of £24.99  and made a compensation payment 
of £30 for the inconvenience. But he hadnt seen  evidence to show it had agreed to pay 
£100 towards telephone  calls or suspend payments and interest on the account. He felt 
SDFLCs offer of £100 in addition to the previous  payments  was fair.
Mr T said he didnt  agree  with the offer and wanted £100  for the phone  calls and 
compensation for the time and stress hes been caused. As its not been possible to resolve  
the complaint  an ombudsman  has been  asked to make the final decision.
 
Ref: DRN46862302my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr T has experienced  the upset and frustration which the circumstances 
surrounding this complaint have  created. And its clear there have been a number of 
misunderstandings along the way.
And its proved  to be quite a complex  investigation  as some of the information from SDFCL  
has been provided incrementally. This has meant new evidence has emerged at different 
stages and its taken  time to reach  a situation  where its been  possible to piece together a 
coherent sequence of events.
I should explain that where evidence is incomplete,  unclear  or contradictory - as some of it is 
here - Im required to make my decision on the balance  of probabilities. That is I have to 
decide what I think is the most likely  explanation for whats happened.
In October  2016 Mr T placed an order which had to be cancelled  and replaced. He says that 
in pursuing the complaint he incurred phone costs  and was promised a refund of £100. 
Although Mr T says he has itemised records of the phone calls made - Ive not seen these. 
And the phone calls recordings which SDFCL has provided dont contain any promises to 
pay £100. Mr T has also said he sent the phone statements to SDFCL. But its said it has no 
record of receiving these. Without  this evidence it would not be fair and reasonable to ask 
SDFCL to compensate  for these calls.
Theres also a dispute about whether or not SDFCL agreed to waive  interest or agreed  to 
Mr T not having to make  payments towards his accounts. Ive listened to a phone call when 
Mr T says he is not going to pay - but thats  a rather different  matter  than SDFCL agreeing to 
him not paying.
The terms and conditions  of the accounts - both the standard account and the BNPL  account  
- set out the interest  and charges to be applied. I understand an arrangement to pay has 
been made in respect of the standard account - and no interest has been  applied after the 
commencement date in late 2017.  But Ive seen no evidence of any such arrangement over 
the deferred interest which  applies  to the BNPL account. And none of the phone  calls with 
which Ive been  provided show SDFCL ever agreed to waive interest  or agreed to Mr T not 
paying towards this account. I understand Mr T has received the items hes ordered and so I 
cant see any reason why SDFCL should  be asked to write  off the sums owed.
SDFCL is required to report  accurate information  about account behaviour to any credit 
reference agency it uses. And so its fair and reasonable for it to record details of payment 
arrangements and late or non-payment of instalments.
SDFCL has accepted some errors in failing to return calls and it has at various stages made  
offers of compensation which now total £100. In addition it has refunded the costs of the 
cancelled order together with the delivery charge.  And its applied a £30 credit to Mr Ts account.
I think this is a fair and reasonable  offer and I shant be asking it to do any more.  
Ref: DRN46862303I understand that Mr T is experiencing financial difficulties and that this can be the source  of 
worry and upset. But Id encourage  him to renew contact with SDFCL.  And Id expect  it to 
treat him with forbearance  and understanding in trying to reach a mutually acceptable way of 
repaying the loan.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  the complaint in part.
Im ordering  Shop Direct Finance Company  Limited to pay Mr T £100  compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. 
For clarity,  this comprises the £60 for which a cheque has been previously issued together 
with the £40 more recently offered. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4686230