K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T complained that they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy by Barclays Bank UK plc (Barclays).
background
Ive attached my provisional decision from March 2019, which  forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I proposed  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts 
complaint. I invited Barclays and Mr and Mrs T to send  in any further comments or evidence 
they wanted me to consider by 30 April 2019, before I reached a final decision. Mr and Mrs T 
said they had nothing further  to add. Barclays sent in a response to say that it agreed the 
complaint should  be upheld.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither Barclays nor Mr and Mrs T 
provided further evidence or arguments for consideration, and Barclays has agreed that the 
complaint should  be upheld,  Ive no reason to change the conclusions set out in my 
provisional decision. So I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
what the business needs  to do
Barclays should put Mr and Mrs T in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out the 
PPI. I understand the policy has been  cancelled already, so Barclays  should:
Pay Mr and Mrs T the amount they paid each  month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs T made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays  can take off what  
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them. It can also take off the amount it has 
paid Mr and Mrs T in relation to commission.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays must  give 
Mr and Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.  Barclays 
Bank UK plc should pay them the compensation Ive described. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN40383072COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs T complained that they were  mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by Barclays Bank UK plc (Barclays).
background
Mr and Mrs T bought the PPI policy when they took out a mortgage in 2004.  Barclays said that the 
PPI sale took place  in a meeting and that it advised Mr and Mrs T to take out the policy. Mr and Mrs T 
said they werent  aware the PPI had been added to the mortgage.
The policy provided  accident,  sickness  and unemployment cover for Mr T only at a monthly cost of 
£56.22. The monthly benefit was £944.85. If Mr T had made a successful claim, the policy  wouldve  
paid out for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. This was because  Mr T told us that he had 
health problems at the time of the sale, and our adjudicator thought that this made the policy 
unsuitable for him, as it couldve limited his ability to claim on it. Barclays disagreed, and asked that it 
be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
I should  also say that when Mr and Mrs T contacted us they mentioned taking out a mortgage  with 
PPI in 1994.  I have not considered that PPI policy  in this decision, as I understand that Barclays 
settled that complaint without the involvement of this service. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Im proposing to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays sent in copies of its computer  records of Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage account,  along with 
copies of the mortgage application forms (which included the PPI application) and the PPI policy. 
Following our adjudicators  assessment it sent in detailed computer  records of Mr and Mrs Ts 
mortgage application in 2004. 
Mr and Mrs T complained that they werent  aware  of the PPI being added to the mortgage.  I have a 
number of documents relating to the mortgage application, and there are several references to Mr and 
Mrs T having PPI. So I think they were  aware they had cover. 
However, the circumstances of the sale in 2004 are not clear. I can see that Mr and Mrs T signed  a 
section of the mortgage application saying that they wanted PPI. However an earlier document  - 
which is dated  December 2003, and may be a fact-find preceding the actual  application - seems to 
suggest they were intending  to use their existing  PPI policy (the 1994 sale) for their new mortgage. 
And the computer records of the 2004 application also seem to refer to the existing policy, which 
appears to have been  in joint names.
It may be that Mr and Mrs T wanted  to change the cover to make Mr T the only insured person.  But I 
have no information about the reason for the cancellation of one policy  and the issue of a new one.
This is relevant to the consideration of Mr Ts health condition, as although he said he couldnt 
remember the exact date of onset, he thought it had started some  15-20 years ago  so while the first 
policy was in existence. He now says he needs regular medication. So had the first policy carried  on  
Ref: DRN40383073and assuming similar terms and conditions  it seems to me that his health condition would not have 
been treated  as pre-existing had he needed to claim.  
I cannot see on any of the application documents that Mr T was asked  about his health in 2004.  
Barclays argued that Mr T had been given the policy information, so could have queried the cover or 
cancelled it if unsuitable.  But Barclays advised  Mr and Mrs T to take the PPI - so the onus was on the 
adviser to take reasonable steps to make sure the policy was suitable. From  the evidence I have Im 
not satisfied  that this was the case. I accept  that Mr T has now told us that he has not so far needed  
to take time of work because of his condition. But my understanding is that this condition can get 
worse over time, and potentially lead to other health issues. So I think it couldve limited his ability to 
claim on the policy, and therefore wouldve  been important to him in 2004.
Barclays also argued that Mr T hadnt mentioned having  health  problems when he submitted his 
complaint originally. However, the information provided to this service (and I believe to Barclays)  was 
based on Mr and Mrs Ts situation in 1994  the earlier PPI sale. From the information  Barclays 
submitted I cant see that it asked about Mr Ts health when requesting details of Mr and Mrs Ts 
circumstances in 2004.  
Ive also thought  about  the information that Mr and Mrs T might have been  given about  the PPI. Its 
not clear whether the policy details  were provided during  the meeting, and I also cannot see that the 
cost was clearly disclosed  at the point of sale. 
Overall, I dont currently think that the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs T because  of the limitation  in 
cover resulting from Mr Ts health problems. So I dont think Mr and Mrs T wouldve  taken  out the 
policy if they had been properly advised. This means they are worse off as a result of what  Barclays 
did wrong, so it should put things right.
what the business needs to do
Barclays should put Mr and Mrs T in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. I 
understand the policy  has been cancelled  already,  so Barclays should:
Pay Mr and Mrs T the amount they paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays  can take off what they got for 
the claim from the amount it owes them.  It can also take off the amount  it has paid Mr and Mrs T in 
relation to commission.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mr 
and Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im proposing  to uphold this complaint, and to require Barclays Bank 
UK plc to pay them the compensation Ive described.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4038307