K820x#14complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with the policy excess and how its being  applied by her insurer, 
Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) on her all risks home  insurance  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs L made a subsidence  claim with their previous insurer in 2010 and raised a 
further claim with Amtrust  in 2018. They say that their previous insurer informed them that 
theyd only have to pay for building repair costs  and not any investigation or solicitors fees. 
Therefore, Mr and Mrs L feel that Amtrust should  use the excess which theyve  since paid 
only for repairs to the property, and not for any subsequent investigation  fees or possible 
legal costs.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and said that our service  is unable to comment  on 
what an insurer uses a policy excess for. He felt the excess had been applied correctly  and 
in line with the terms and conditions that are in place,  so he didnt  recommend  that Amtrust 
had to do anything  differently  on the complaint. As Mr and Mrs L disagreed with his findings, 
the complaint  has been passed to me to make  a final decision on it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint, and Ill explain why.
Amtrust operate as a separate insurer to the previous one, and so any new claim made  
under the policy  will be treated  as such. Ive seen that Mr and Mrs L are unhappy  with 
Amtrusts actions and refer to how their previous insurer dealt with things. However, I wont  
be considering  the previous insurers actions or any excess  they had on that policy.  This 
complaint is regarding the policy  in place with Mrs L and Amtrust.
Not all insurance policies  carry  the same  excess payment amounts, or even  apply an excess  
for some claims. As our investigator said, our service isnt the regulator of the insurance 
industry, so we wont comment on what price the insurer has set as the excess. What we 
can do is look to see if the excess, as set out in the policy, has been  applied fairly for the 
claim made.
I understand that the excess increased after the previous subsidence  claim,  this isnt 
uncommon when  there  is a history of subsidence  at a property. And excesses for 
subsidence do usually  have a higher excess amount than other insured perils of a policy, 
due to the expensive nature of a subsidence claim.
The policy schedule clearly shows that theres an increased subsidence  excess  of £5,000 for 
any claim relating to subsidence,  landslip  or heave.  Having looked at information regarding 
the claim,  Im satisfied  that the policy excess has been applied in line with the new 
subsidence claim that was taken on by Amtrust.  I understand that Mr and Mrs L have 
concerns over what the excess payment is used for by their insurer.
Ref: DRN41361792The excess  is a pre-agreed amount of money that needs to be paid when a claim is made. 
Amtrusts responsibility is to settle  the subsidence claim in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy. The policy defines excess(es) as  The amount(s)  specified  in the schedule 
for which you are responsible for each  claim.
I understand that Mr and Mrs L consider  the subsidence at the property to have been caused  
by a neighbours vegetation. As such,  they feel that any costs associated  with the claim 
could be recouped by Amtrust, and they feel that the high excess isnt justified as they dont 
think the repair costs  to their home will amount to the excess  amount theyve paid.   
Generally, the excess is the amount payable for the claim. And a claim will encompass all 
the necessary  work from experts  to groundworks to building  repairs etc. The claim value is 
the global figure of how much it costs to put the claim right and the excess is the amount 
payable in respect of that. I wouldnt expect things like postage  costs  and cost of the claim 
handler to be in those  costs as these would be considered business administration costs  
running costs. So, I think  its fair Amtrust applies the excess  to the total cost of the claim not 
just to the building repairs. If in the event the total cost of the claim doesnt  exceed the 
excess paid, I would  expect Amtrust  to return the difference.  
In summary,  I dont think Amtrust has made  an error in applying  the excess  to the total cost 
of the claim and I therefore wont be asking it to anything more.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive given above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4136179