K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about adverse information recorded  on his credit  file by American Express  
Services Europe Limited (Amex). Mr H is represented  by an advisor in bringing  his 
complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all submissions as having been made by him 
directly.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on 6 March 2020, a copy of which is attached  as it forms part 
of this final decision. Both parties responded to the provisional decision.  Amex accepted my 
provisional findings. But Mr H didnt agree and put forward some further comments for me to 
consider.
Mr H agrees with my provisional finding  that Amex should have marked his account as 
settled as soon as the dispute was compromised. But he says it follows from that finding  
that the legal  fees he incurred in pressing Amex to update the credit file should be 
reimbursed. Thats because he says it shouldnt have been necessary  for him to make  that 
contact with Amex and it wouldnt have been  necessary if theyd updated  the credit  file 
straight away.
Mr H says that Amexs agreement to discharge and indemnify him for the outstanding 
balance on his card is a further  reason  why he should be awarded  his legal costs from the 
time he had to complain  that the account  hadnt been marked as settled.
As to the effect of the entries on the credit file, Mr H says that he applied to more than six 
lenders for a credit card and was declined by all of them.  He doesnt have any record of this 
as his computer  records have been  deleted  inadvertently. But Mr H recalls  being offered a 
high interest card which he says he declined as he was only offered a credit  limit of £1,000 
and he needed  a limit of between £20,000 and £50,000. He says he should be compensated 
for the inconvenience  of having to deal with this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account Mr Hs comments 
and looked at everything again.
Mr H thinks I should  award the legal costs he incurred  in pressing for the amendment of his 
credit file. Im not persuaded that these are covered by the indemnity as Mr H suggests.  But 
in any event, while its possible  for this service  to award legal costs,  its only in exceptional 
circumstances  such as when somebody  is incapacitated  and unable  to bring a complaint 
themselves. Ive not seen any evidence thats  the case here. Were an informal  dispute 
resolution service acting as an alternative  to the courts. Theres not normally any need to 
have legal advisors. I accept Mr H has decided to do so on this occasion. But the costs hes 
incurred arent something I think should  be awarded.
As to the declined  credit applications, I appreciate that Mr H is working  from memory  and so 
there arent any documents for me to review. But I havent seen any evidence that the data 
about the Amex  account was the reason  the applications were  declined. There could be 
many reasons why this happened.  So, from the information available,  I cant  fairly conclude  
that Amex are responsible for Mr Hs declined credit  applications.
Ref: DRN48260962So, whilst I realise this will be disappointing  for Mr H, I havent seen anything  which  changes  
my mind  about the appropriate outcome here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, and as set out in my provisional decision (attached  below), I uphold 
this complaint. My final decision is that American  Express Services Europe  Limited  should  
pay compensation of £250 to Mr H.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN48260963copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr H complains about adverse information recorded on his credit file by American Express Services 
Europe Limited  (Amex).
background
Mr H is represented by an advisor in bringing his complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all 
submissions as having been  made by him directly.
Mr H had a charge card account  with Amex.  In 2017, he complained about services theyd  provided in 
booking a holiday for him. There followed  a dispute between Mr H and Amex. While the dispute was 
ongoing, Mr H declined to pay the outstanding balance on his Amex card,  which Amex considered to 
be a default. In June 2018, the parties settled the dispute. The settlement involved Amex  agreeing to 
discharge  and indemnify Mr H for the outstanding balance on his card.
In or around  September  2018, Mr H discovered  that there were  adverse  entries  about  the Amex  
account on his credit  file. Specifically, there were late payment markers and the account had not been 
marked as settled, indicating that the balance was still outstanding. Following a series  of 
communications between Mr H and Amex, Amex amended Mr Hs credit file in October 2018 to show 
the account as settled. They also removed  the late payment markers  which they said was a goodwill 
gesture and not something they were obliged to do.
Mr H wasnt  happy about the situation and complained to Amex. He said they hadnt explained why it 
took them  until October  2018 to amend the credit  file when the dispute was settled  in June 2018.  He 
was unhappy about the delay and said that, as a result of the adverse information  on his credit file, 
hed suffered inconvenience  and hardship. Mr H said that, by Amexs actions, they had defamed him. 
He also said theyd affected the running  of his business and caused him embarrassment as he had to 
rely on financial help from friends, having  been declined  for credit elsewhere. He said Amex had also 
caused him to incur  legal costs. Mr H wanted Amex to apologise,  pay him compensation of £5,000 
and pay his legal costs.
Amex said that, by withholding payments to the account,  Mr H had breached their terms and 
conditions. They said he wasnt entitled to set off payments  against any potential claims  he had. And 
that Mr Hs non-payment entitled them to cancel the account. They said theyd been correct in 
reporting missed payments  to the credit  reference agencies and that, by removing them at a later 
date, theyd done more than was necessary to address Mr Hs concerns. They  didnt accept that 
theyd delayed in amending the credit file. 
When Mr H brought  his complaint to this service,  our investigator thought Amex  had dealt with the 
situation fairly. So he didnt  ask them  to do any more. Mr H didnt accept  our investigators findings  
and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
As Mr Hs credit file has been updated, what Im looking at here is whether Amex  have done enough 
to put things  right.
Ref: DRN48260964Its unfortunate that Mr Hs account wasnt marked as settled  as soon as the dispute between the 
parties was compromised. I think that should have happened straight away.  Mr H says he found out in 
September 2018 that the balance was still showing as outstanding  on his credit file. Amex amended 
this in October 2018. So I dont think there was any significant delay  in them taking action after Mr H 
told them that the credit file needed updating. But it shouldnt have been necessary for him to write to 
them about it at all. Thats because  they should  have  reported the account as settled  some four 
months earlier, when terms were agreed.
As to the removal  of late payment markers, its not clear to me from the documents Ive seen whether 
or to what extent that formed part of the settlement terms. Mr H says it falls within the indemnity 
contained in the settlement  terms.  He says that means Amex must  ensure that he isnt prejudiced by 
the matter being referred to a credit  reference agency or by Amex  failing to inform  credit reference  
agencies of the true position.  I think an obligation  to inform the credit reference agencies that the 
account was settled does  arise from the indemnity.  As, I think, does an obligation  not to report any 
more missed payments.
But my understanding is that there were  already late payment markers on the credit file which had 
been entered  before the settlement was agreed. Its not clear  to me whether  the parties envisaged 
that any existing adverse entries would  be amended upon settlement. I note that Mr Hs solicitors 
wrote to Amex a few days  after the settlement had been reached, saying: Now that the matter has 
been compromised, would you please kindly confirm that your client has not referred  the balance that 
was previously allegedly due to any credit reference agencies or to any agencies  that may have the 
effect of prejudicing our clients credit rating. This indicates that, at the time Mr H put forward and 
agreed settlement  terms, he wasnt aware there were already late payment markers on his credit  file. 
So Im not sure if they (and their removal)  formed  part of the settlement.
In any event, Amex have  removed  the late payment entries from Mr Hs credit file and I think thats 
fair.
But Mr H says the fact that there were adverse entries on his credit file for the period from June to 
October 2018 has caused  him inconvenience and annoyance. He says he was unable to obtain credit 
because Amex  had defamed him by causing the world at large to believe that he was indebted  to 
them. He also says it hampered  him in the running of his business  and caused him embarrassment.
The allegation of defamation  isnt something I have the power to look at under the rules  of this 
service. So I cant make  a decision about that. 
But I can see how the situation must have been stressful and frustrating for Mr H. He thought  the 
dispute with Amex had been resolved, but discovered  some months later that the Amex  card was 
having a negative impact on his credit  file. Although Amex have now amended  the credit file, there 
was a period  of a few months after theyd agreed to discharge the debt where  it was still recorded  as 
outstanding. And it was only after Mr H brought it to their attention  through several rounds of 
correspondence that they corrected it.  So I think they should pay some compensation for that. 
But I havent  seen any evidence that Mr H has been declined credit because  of anything  Amex  did. 
Nor that his business was disrupted  by Amexs  actions. So I cant  fairly direct Amex  to pay 
compensation for those issues.
Its difficult to put a monetary  value  on the stress and inconvenience caused  by a situation like this. 
Our awards arent  intended  to punish a business but to reflect the impact a situations  had on a 
customer and put that right, so far as possible. Mr H has explained how the situation affected him and 
Ive taken that into account  to decide the appropriate level of compensation here. I have to be 
impartial, so Ive balanced  what  Mr H has said against the information Amex have provided and the 
fact that they have removed all the late payment markers. 
Taking everything into account, I think compensation of £250 would be appropriate here.
Ref: DRN48260965Mr H says that Amex  should reimburse the legal fees which he says hes incurred unnecessarily in 
this matter. Thats not something  this service would award as a matter of course. And I havent seen 
anything which makes  me think a costs award would be appropriate here. So I dont intend to ask 
Amex to pay Mr Hs legal  costs.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  above, and subject to any further information I receive from the parties  which  
changes my mind, I intend  to uphold  this complaint.  My provisional decision  is that American Express 
Services Europe Limited should pay compensation of £250 to Mr H.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4826096