K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains about the service hes received from Equiniti Financial Services  Limited  in 
relation to his ISA account. 
background 
The detailed background to Mr Ws complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only 
provide a summary here.  Mr Ws complaint has two aspects. Hes unhappy  with the 
problems hes experienced with regard  to being  unable to log in to his online account with 
Equiniti. He also complains that Equiniti havent correctly reinvested  his dividends which he 
says has caused  him a financial loss. 
Mr Ws account was migrated to Equiniti from his previous provider in 2012. His previous 
provider offered a Dividend Reinvestment  Service (DRS). This meant any dividends  paid on 
shares held within his account would  be reinvested  in more shares. Mr W expected this 
arrangement to continue with Equiniti.  
In 2018 Mr W experienced problems trying  to log on to his online account  with Equiniti and 
complained. In the course of this complaint he discovered his dividends  hadnt been 
reinvested and had remained as cash within his account. He added  these issues to his 
complaint about  being unable to log on. 
Equiniti made attempts  to assist Mr W with his account access.  They also explained that 
when the account migrated to them in 2012  they didnt offer a DRS. But that theyd 
contacted all investors in 2014 when they introduced this service. As Mr W hadnt  provided 
any instructions to apply  the DRS  to his account, they hadnt  done so. 
But Equiniti  acknowledged that on migration Mr W had asked to apply the SCRIP facility  to 
the shares in his account. And that this hadnt  happened. (SCRIP is when the business in 
which shares are held, offers to pay dividends in new A shares, instead of being paid in 
cash). So Equiniti reconstructed his account  as if the SCRIP facility had been in place. This 
resulted in Mr Ws account receiving an additional 341 A Shares. 
Mr W wasnt satisfied  and the matter  was referred  to our service.  One of our investigators 
thought the complaint about  account access had been referred  to us too late under the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) rules. And that in relation to the dividend reinvestments,  
she thought Equiniti had put Mr W back in the position he should  have been in were  it not for 
their error in missing his instruction for the SCRIP facility. But she also thought they should  
pay him £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Equiniti accepted our investigators  recommendation but Mr W didnt. So the matter  was 
passed to me to make a decision. Ive already issued a jurisdiction decision explaining why 
our service  cant  consider  Mr Ws complaint about online access. This decision refers to 
Equinitis actions in relation  to the dividends.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. Let me explain why. 
Ref: DRN49625642the DRS
Mr W expected the DRS to continue with Equiniti, particularly as his account had previously 
changed providers  and the service  had been maintained.  Ive looked closely  at the 
information sent to Mr W when his account migrated to Equiniti. There  is no reference  to a 
DRS. The documents explain that that dividends will be paid in cash unless a company  
offers shareholders the opportunity to receive dividends in the form of shares  (SCRIP). 
Ive also looked  at the terms  and conditions of Mr Ws account that were applicable at the 
time. Again there is no reference  to DRS  being  offered. Equiniti said in their submissions 
When Mr W became  a customer of Equiniti, he confirmed his agreement to the terms and 
conditions of the service  we provide  and that he had read and understood them.  It is 
important to note that the migration mailing made  no reference  to the DRS and also provided  
customers with several  options regarding their account, which  included  moving to a provider 
of their choice.
Equiniti have also provided  a copy of a message sent to all their investors in 2014 when they 
introduced the DRS. This message wasnt accessed  by Mr W until 2018. Mr Ws account is 
on an execution only basis and there is no obligation  on Equiniti to provide Mr W with advice 
in relation to his investments. It is for Mr W to maintain his account.  Without  instructions  from 
Mr W, Equiniti  werent in a position to apply the DRS to his shares.
So taking all of the above into consideration, I dont think Equiniti have done anything wrong 
in relation to the DRS. Equiniti arent obliged to offer the same terms and conditions as 
Mr Ws previous  provider.  And they have no record of Mr W providing instructions  to engage 
this facility after its introduction in 2014.  
the SCRIP
Ive looked at the forms Mr W submitted when his account migrated  in 2012. The box to 
indicate that he would like to take up SCRIP if offered is clearly ticked. Equiniti agree and 
accept it was an error not to act on these instructions. But in reconstructing his account as if 
this instruction had been in place from the start,  Im satisfied that theyve put Mr W back in 
the position he wouldve been in, were it not for their error. I appreciate Mr W thinks the 
calculation should  take into account the DRS. But for the reasons Ive outlined above,  I dont 
agree that is the case. 
Our investigator thought that Equinitis  error  would  have  caused Mr W a degree  of distress 
and inconvenience   I agree this is the case.  I know Mr W feels £100 is a derisory amount, 
but it relates solely to their error  in missing his SCRIP instruction as I dont agree Equiniti are 
responsible for all that Mr W alleges. So looking  at the circumstances as a whole,  Im 
satisfied £100  is a fair amount. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Equiniti Financial Services Limited must  pay Mr W £100 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.
Ref: DRN49625643Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4962564