K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC has refused to raise a chargeback for a mis-
sold holiday  club membership. 
background
Mr and Mrs D say they bought the holiday club membership in 2013  for just under £12,000 
with a company  I will call E. They say they were misled and the membership  was mis-sold 
and saw a decline  in the product they bought. Mr and Mrs D say in June 2018 they asked 
Lloyds to raise a chargeback in order to get their money back  but it refused to do so.
Lloyds says Mr and Mrs D were  out of time for a chargeback to be made. It says its not 
responsible for those  time limits  and the claim falls outside the 120 day rule and the 540 day 
rule. Lloyds accepts it didnt respond to Mr and Mrs D as it should and has paid £150 
compensation and apologised.
Mr and Mrs D brought  their complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold it. The 
investigator thought  Mr and Mrs D had brought their chargeback request too late under the 
scheme rules. The investigator explained  that a chargeback is not a right but a voluntary 
scheme. The investigator also thought the £150  compensation fair and reasonable for that 
part of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs D dont accept that view and say the time limit can be extended in certain 
circumstances. They say Lloyds has a duty to treat its customers  fairly and so would like 
their payment refunded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr and Mrs D will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly they feel about  this complaint 
and the product they were  sold in 2013.
The investigator has explained that chargeback is not an automatic right but a voluntary 
scheme run by the card providers and not as in this case  Lloyds. That means that Lloyds 
isnt responsible for the rules  and time limits.
Im satisfied that the disputed transaction took place  in 2013 which is more than 120 days 
before Mr and Mrs D asked Lloyds to raise  the chargeback. So Im satisfied Lloyds acted 
fairly and didnt make a mistake by explaining  to Mr and Mrs D that they were outside  the 
time limit for making a chargeback. I accept  the time limit can be extended to a maximum 
540 days but I also think that time limit expired many years  before  Mr  and Mrs D asked 
Lloyds to make the chargeback.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs D say that time limit can be extended  in extreme  
circumstances. But Im satisfied Lloyds has correctly applied the chargeback rules and is not 
in a position to change  them or extend them.
There is no question here that Lloyds didnt  respond to Mr and Mrs Ds complaint as it 
should have. But Im satisfied Lloyds has acted  fairly  by apologising and paying what I think 
Ref: DRN41371752is a fair and reasonable amount of £150 compensation. I appreciate that is not the main part 
of the complaint.
Overall I find that Lloyds has correctly applied the chargeback rules and hasnt made a 
mistake or acted unfairly  by not making a chargeback in these circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 December 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4137175