K821x#15complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Hastings Insurance Services Limited cancelled his insurance and gave 
him poor customer service.
background
Mr P had a motor insurance  policy with Hastings, on which  his wife Mrs P was also a named 
driver. Mr P paid his premium in monthly instalments by Direct  Debit. 
A few months after the policy started, Hastings told Mr P it hadnt received  his monthly 
payment. When Mrs P called Hastings  about  this, the agent said Hastings had received 
Mr Ps payment but a systems fault meant it hadnt processed the payment properly. 
Hastings apologised, said the fault was fixed and paid Mr P £50 compensation for his 
inconvenience.
But Hastings told Mr P his next two payments  hadnt  been received either. It told him it would 
cancel his insurance as a result. Mr P didnt think this was fair as hed made all his payments  
and had been calling Hastings to sort things out. So he got in touch with our service. Our 
investigator spoke to Hastings, and it said it would  pause the cancellation  while it looked into 
Mr Ps complaint. 
After looking into things,  Hastings upheld Mr Ps complaint. It said it was aware of an issue 
that meant  Mr Ps payments werent being  attached to his account and this had caused the 
cancellation process to begin. It apologised and paid Mr P a further £60 compensation for 
his stress, inconvenience, and for not calling him back.
About a month  later, Mr Ps car broke  down. When he called Hastings for assistance,  it told 
him it couldnt help as his policy had been cancelled  and that hed need to wait over the 
weekend until a particular  agent returned  to the office. 
Mr P complained again to Hastings. It said it shouldnt have cancelled Mr Ps policy  and 
should have done more  to reinstate his policy when he called.  It apologised and offered Mr P 
a further £100 compensation.  But it said it wouldnt compensate Mrs P for the earnings she 
says she lost by not being  able to drive  while  the insurance was cancelled.
Hastings told our service it couldnt  fix the issue of Mr Ps payments not being added to his 
account, so it offered  him the opportunity to cancel his policy  early  without charge. Mr P 
decided to keep  his policy until the end of its term as he wasnt able to find a suitable policy  
elsewhere, he wouldnt qualify for another years  no claims discount if he cancelled the 
policy early,  and the issue hadnt  happened  again recently. 
After looking at the information she had, our investigator thought  Hastings had caused Mr P 
unnecessary stress and inconvenience. She didnt think the £210 compensation Hastings 
had already offered was enough in the circumstances, so she said it should pay a Mr P a 
further £190, bringing the total compensation to £400. But she didnt award compensation for 
Mrs Ps loss of earnings. 
Hastings disagreed so this complaint  has been passed to me to make  a decision.
Ref: DRN40427662my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Both Mr P and Hastings  agree that Hastings made mistakes. Hastings accepts its systems 
error meant it repeatedly and incorrectly told Mr P he hadnt made payments when he had, 
and that it therefore  sent him letters saying  he owed  money and that his policy would be 
cancelled. And it accepts it made further  mistakes in cancelling  the policy and not doing  
more to reinstate  it when  Mr P called.
Since its not in dispute that Hastings  made  mistakes, what I need  to decide is how to put 
things right. To do that, Ive considered  what impact  the mistakes  had. In other words, 
whether they caused Mr P any distress  or inconvenience, or caused  a financial loss.
Im satisfied Hastings caused Mr P unnecessary  distress and inconvenience.  I say this 
because I think Mr P would have been worried each  time Hastings incorrectly  told him his 
payment hadnt  been received, when it said he owed  it money and when it said it was going 
to cancel his insurance.  And I think Mr P was inconvenienced and frustrated by having to call 
Hastings several times about these things. 
I think Hastings caused Mr P further worry, frustration and inconvenience when it incorrectly  
cancelled his insurance. Mr P says that when he called for assistance  when his car broke 
down, Hastings told him it had cancelled his insurance, that it couldnt be reinstated until the 
agent whod  been dealing  with his complaint returned to the office after the weekend, and 
that it advised him not to drive the car in the meantime.  Hastings  hasnt provided  recordings 
or notes  of these calls,  but Ive not seen any reason to doubt  Mr Ps account  and Hastings  
hasnt disputed it.
I think Mr P would have been  very frustrated to find out his insurance  had been cancelled, as 
he hadnt missed any payments and Hastings had previously said it would pause the 
cancellation. Mr P says he was worried about  what mightve happened if hed been stopped 
by the police whilst unknowingly driving  without insurance. I can see why Mr P would have 
been concerned  in hindsight, but thankfully  he wasnt  stopped.
It seems  Mr P called Hastings several  times  after finding out his insurance was cancelled.  
Hastings accepts that in those calls it incorrectly told Mr P hed need to wait for a particular 
agent to return  to the office before his cover  could be reinstated.  
I think these calls caused Mr P frustration and inconvenience. And I think Mr P was further 
inconvenienced by not having the car available for use by him and his wife over that 
weekend. Mr P says his wife lost a days wage as she wasnt able to drive to work. But Mr P 
knew the day before that the car wasnt insured and couldnt be driven.  Therefore  I think 
Mrs P had the opportunity to try and make alternative travel arrangements.  Ive not seen 
anything to suggest she did try, so I cant say Hastings solely caused this financial loss. 
Therefore, it wouldnt be fair for me to award compensation for Mrs Ps lost earnings.
However, I think the investigators suggestion of a total of £400 compensation is fair and 
reasonable compensation for Mr Ps distress and inconvenience. Ive not seen  that Hastings 
took any action  to add defaults  or charges to either Mr Ps account or credit  record. But if it 
did, it should remove these.
Ref: DRN40427663my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. Hastings Insurance  Services  Limited 
should pay Mr P a further £190 compensation in addition to the £210 its already offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4042766