K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC has charged cash  handling transaction 
fees when he made  payments online. 
background
Mr H has a Tesco credit  card and in May 2018  it wrote to card holders  about a Notice  of 
Variation that was due to be introduced. The Notice of Variation said Tesco would  start to 
charge for some transactions that had previously been free. 
Mr H uses the services  of an online payment provider. This business  offers  a buy now pay 
later arrangement but Mr H has explained  that it can also be used to purchase items  with 
immediate effect. 
After Tesco  introduced its Notice of Variation  Mr H was charged for using the services of the 
online payment  provider and complained. 
Tesco said it was allowed to charge him because of the recent  Notice of Variation. Mr H 
went on to refer his complaint  to this service and an adjudicator looked  at what  had 
happened. But they thought Tesco had applied the charge fairly and in line with the revised 
account terms. Mr H didnt  agree so the complaints been passed to me to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his response to the adjudicators view of his complaint Mr H said that he accepted Tescos 
Notice of Variation  gave it the right to apply a cash handling fee for transactions used to 
repay borrowing. But he said the online payment provider offers other  services,  including the 
ability to make immediate  payments for goods  online. 
Tesco was asked to provide its comments on this point  and supplied  systems evidence to 
show how transactions from the online  payment provider are presented.  When  a transaction  
is presented for payment  a Merchant Category Code is provided. The code indicates the 
type of merchant claiming the payment. In this case  the code used by the online payment 
provider is the type used  by businesses that deal with loan payments and credit related 
activities. Tesco has confirmed that it applies the cash handling transaction fee for 
transactions of this nature.  
Mr H also pointed towards other businesses that he feels operate  in a similar way but said 
payments to them werent subject to the same fee. Tesco said it has no influence on the 
types of Merchant Category Codes used but said other businesses may use different codes. 
Mr H says hes not using  his Tesco credit card to repay borrowing when he uses it with the 
online payment  provider. But Tesco can only base its decision to apply a cash  handling 
transaction fee on the information  its provided when processing a payment.  In this case, Im 
satisfied the information Tescos  received  indicates  the payment would be used to repay 
borrowing so I think its fair for the cash handling  transaction fee to apply.  
Ref: DRN48833212As I havent  found  any evidence of a mistake  by Tesco and I think  its dealt with Mr Hs 
complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further action.  
my final decision
my decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision 
before 11 April 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4883321