K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV)  caused  
unnecessary delays in how it handled his claim on his car insurance policy  when his car was 
involved in an accident. He also disagrees  with LVs decision to write  the car off.
background
Mr P was involved  in an accident  in April 2018 when another car collided with his car. The 
other driver was found to be liable for the accident  but Mr Ps car was badly  damaged as a 
result of the collision. 
Mr P has said that LV made  a number of failings in how it handled his claim.  He says when 
he rang LV to inform it of the accident the person he spoke to couldnt  locate Mr P as quickly  
as he thought they should have. He explained  that due to medical  reasons it was important 
that he not be left waiting  on the side of the road for a prolonged period. However he feels 
this wasnt properly considered by the call handler and that they could have done more  to 
help him. He says he had to wait a number  of hours  before  the recovery  agent turned up. He 
says the recovery  agent  LV instructed had come  from around 35 miles away  and he thinks a 
local recovery agent would have reached  him quicker.
In addition to this Mr P has also said that LV caused  unnecessary delays in processing  his 
claim. He says he provided  LV with witness testimony and CCTV footage  which clearly 
showed he was not at fault. Despite providing the insurer  with this information immediately, 
he says it took LV from the 13 April 2018 until 9 May 2018 to process  his claim, which  he 
feels is unacceptable. He has also queried  why LV didnt  help organise  for the other  drivers 
insurer to provide a courtesy car for him to use following the incident.  
Finally Mr P has said that he strongly disagrees  with LVs decision to write  off his car rather  
than repair  it. He says his car was in excellent  condition and very well maintained. He says 
that LV valued his car at £12,000  and the estimated cost of repairs  was £8,800.  Mr P 
strongly disagrees that it would have been  uneconomical to repair his car and says he has 
lost both time and money as a result  of LVs decision to write the car off. He has queried why 
no one in LV spoke  to him about this decision and why he was informed  about  it by the 
garage his car was being kept in instead of by an LV representative.  
LV has said that the call handler did all they could  to help Mr P and did take his medical 
condition into consideration. It also says the decision  was made on the 30 April 2018 to write 
off the car and payment  was received on 9 May 2018. It says that the time line between the 
accident and the decision to write off the car was only 13 working days, which  it doesnt think  
was excessive. It has highlighted  that it only took a total of 18 working  days between the 
accident happening and Mr P receiving  payment into his account. 
However it did accept that it caused some delays regarding Mr Ps claim for uninsured  
losses. It says that this part of the claim was delayed by three  days  because LV failed to 
contact the agents  dealing  with this aspect of Mr Ps claim. It apologised for this and offered 
Mr P £50 compensation. 
LV has also said that the decision to write off the car was based on the estimated cost of the 
repairs and there was a potential  that these costs  may increase  as a more  detailed 
examination of the car was undertaken.
Ref: DRN44710832I issued a provisional decision on 31 March 2019. I said the following:
I think the amount  LV has offered compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances
of this complaint.  And Ill now explain why.
In order to address  the different aspects of Mr Ps complaint in full I will set them out under
different headings.
claims handling:
Mr P has told us that the person  he initially  spoke  to wasnt able to help him as well as she
should have been. Mr P feels  it took the call handler  longer than she should have to locate
him on LVs GPS system and that, when LV sent out a recovery vehicle, it used a company
that didnt normally  service the area.  So he says his waiting  time was longer than it should
have been.
I understand how distressing the accident  must have  been for Mr P and can appreciate how
this was compounded  by his existing medical condition.  Ive listened to the calls between
Mr P and the call handler and it took just over four minutes for her to find his location. The
call handler also listed Mr P as a priority and tried to arrange for a recovery team to come as
soon as possible.
When Mr P explained he had a medical  condition the call handler ended  the call and tried to
find a different recovery team that would be able to come to him sooner. The call handler
called Mr P back and explained that she had contacted a different company as the wait time
for them to reach Mr P would be less.
Overall given the limited  resources available to the call handler I dont think  there  was
anything more she could  have done  in regards to how long Mr P had to wait. I dont think  it
took a disproportionate length  of time to locate him on LVs GPS system and I feel she took
his medical condition into consideration and did the best she could to try to reduce his
waiting time.
Mr P has also said that LV caused unnecessary delays to his claim and that it was
unacceptable that it took five days for the case to be assigned to a claim consultant to
consider.
I appreciate this was an extremely  frustrating  experience for Mr P, especially as he was not
at fault for the accident. However I dont agree that his claim was delayed  unnecessarily  or
that LV failed  to act on the information  provided.  Mr Ps accident  took place on a Friday.  So,
although it took five calendar days, it was only three  working days  between LV being notified
of the accident  and the claim being assigned to someone to work. So I cant say there was
any significant delay  caused by LV at this stage of the complaint.
Mr P has explained that he provided  LV with CCTV footage and witness testimony  which
showed he wasnt at fault and that full liability should lie with the other driver.  He has
explained that a single  viewing of the CCTV footage, which was only a few minutes  long,
would have clearly  demonstrated this and allowed the claims handler to progress  his claim
immediately. I can understand Mr Ps annoyance  here. There is no doubt that the footage
showed the other driver  was at fault for the accident.  And there was no argument made by
the third party  to the contrary.
Mr P is unhappy that the claims handler  didnt  review  his claim on the day he received it. But
Ref: DRN44710833claims handlers will have a number  of claims theyre working at any one time. And I dont
think there was an unreasonable delay in reviewing Mr Ps claim. I also cant  hold LV
responsible for the time it took the other  drivers insurer to accept liability.
I do think there was a delay in assessing whether to repair Mr Ps car. And LV has accepted
this. But it offered him £100 in compensation for this, which I think this is fair.
Mr P has also said that LV should have asked  the other drivers insurer to provide him with a
courtesy car as it had accepted full liability. I can see that LV explained it could arrange for a
credit hire company to provide a hire car. But it said this would only be for a few days. Mr P
felt this was unacceptable as he would  need  the car for longer so he decided not to pursue
the request.  I cant hold LV responsible  for this. As Mr Ps policy  didnt provide cover  for a
courtesy car, LV wasnt required to provide him with one. So I cant  hold it responsible  for
Mr P not having access to a car when he wanted one.
claim for uninsured losses
Mr P has confirmed  that he tried to claim for his uninsured losses under his policy.  Mr P has
a legal expenses  insurance policy attached to his standard motor  insurance policy.  There
has been some confusion as to whether  or not the claim was processed  under his legal
expenses insurance  or motor insurance  policy.
LV has confirmed it considered this aspect of Mr Ps claim under his motor  insurance policy.
It has said that Mr P wanted to claim for expenses  linked  to a full service the car had
received a short time prior to the accident.  He had also filled the cars tank with petrol just
before the accident happened  and wanted  to recover these costs  as well.
LV has explained  that the cost of servicing his car and filling it with petro were expenses
Mr P would have incurred regardless of the accident. Because of this they werent covered
under his policy as uninsured losses. However, he did receive a payment for £30 for
miscellaneous costs linked to other  uninsured losses which resulted from the accident.
Mr P was paid £50 compensation for the delays he experienced  in receiving  a call back from
the solicitors appointed  to consider this aspect of his claim. This seems reasonable to me
given Mr P had to wait three days for someone to call him back  and explain what was
happening in regards to his claim for uninsured losses.  So I wont be asking LV to do any
more in relation  to this aspect of Mr Ps complaint.
decision to write off the car:
It seems  to me that the main crux of Mr Ps complaint is that he doesnt  agree with LVs
decision to write his car off. Mr P has repeatedly told us that his car was in excellent
condition and had been serviced the week before the accident. He feels that the car should
have been repaired  and that LV shouldnt have  made the decision to scrap the car without
discussing it with him first.
Mr Ps car was initially  valued at around £10,700  but LV later increased this to £12,000. The
garage the car was sent to estimated the cost of repairing it to be around £8,800.
LV has said that the damage  to the car was extensive. So it thought  it was possible further
damage could  have been discovered once the car was stripped down. As the estimated cost
of repair  was already  quite high, and given the market value of the car, LV decided it was
more economically  sound  to write  the car off rather than repair it.
Ref: DRN44710834Mr P feels  it was unreasonable for LV to come  to this conclusion.  Ive taken Mr Ps
comments into account. But the terms of Mr Ps insurance policy  gave LV the right to decide
whether it wanted  to repair  the car or pay him its market value which would enable him to
replace it. I appreciate  Mr P says that LV should  have consulted  him over this. But, while I
would expect LV to explain its decision, it was ultimately at LVs discretion as to how it
wanted to settle  the claim. But it did have  to exercise this discretion fairly and reasonably.
Considering where  the car was hit, the extent of the damage and the estimated minimum
cost of repairs, before the full extent of the damage  was known, I dont think it was
unreasonable for LV to decide to write  the car off.
I appreciate that Mr P feels very strongly  that it was the wrong thing to do and hes said that
it should have  given him the option to buy the car back. LV didnt have to ask him if he
wanted to keep the salvage unless Mr P specifically asked to do so. And I cant see that he
asked LV about this or made any query to whether he could buy the car back to arrange  to
do the repairs himself.
I understand how frustrating and stressful  this experience has been  for Mr P. He was
involved in a collision that he wasnt responsible  for. His car was written off and he was left
without a car for a number of weeks  while his claim was settled and until he bought  a
replacement car. However,  having  reviewed his complaint in full, I cant  say that LV
mishandled his claim or failed to act on the information he provided it.
Mr P responded to the provisional decision and made a number of comments:
Mr P doesnt  believe the decision to write his car off was made  on 30 April 2018. He has said 
the mechanic  he spoke  to at the garage where  his car was being examined, told him they 
were informed the car was going to be written off on 17 April 2018.
Mr P also disputes the cost of repairs, which had been estimated at £8,800,  might  have 
increased once  a more  detailed  examination of the car took place. He has told us that at no 
point in time was this amount described  as the minimum cost of repairs  and highlighted that 
at one point the estimate increased from £8,000 to £8,800  which he feels  indicates it was a 
measured and well considered estimate.
He believes that LV shouldnt have decided to write off his car on the basis that it was more 
economically sound to do so as it hadnt  questioned the mechanics about  the estimate 
provided or sought  any additional information  on whether or not the cost of repairs were 
likely to increase. 
Mr P has further said that he believes LV had a duty of care to talk to him about  whether or 
not the car should be repaired or written off before making the decision. He has explained 
that he didnt ask LV for the salvage to get the car repaired  himself  as he didnt  think of it at 
the time and LV didnt  offer this as an option  to him. 
LV didnt respond to the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN44710835Ive taken Mr Ps comments into account,  but Ive come to the same conclusion  to the one I 
reached in my provisional decision. 
Mr P hasnt commented on my findings  in respect  to the way LV handled  his claim or in 
respect to his claim for his uninsured losses. So I wont comment on this again. Mr Ps 
response was solely  in respect to LVs decision to write  his car off.
Mr P has told us that the mechanic he spoke  to said the decision to write the car off was 
made on 17 April 2018 and not the 30 April 2018  as LV has told us. Without  any additional 
information to rely on it seems likely  to me that LV may have given an early indication  it was 
likely to write the car off once it received the estimate for repairs from the garage. 
Mr P has explained his frustration with the time it took for LV to settle his claim and I know  
he believes  he should have been  notified on the 17 April if his car was going to be written off 
and not on the 30 April,  some 10 working  days later. However, it takes time for underwriters 
to process claims and while it may have seem likely that the car was going to be written  off 
once the cost of the repairs had been given  to LV, I cant say the time  between  the early  
indication and the confirmation  of the outcome of the claim, was disproportionate in this 
case. 
I note Mr P disagrees that the cost of repairing his car would have  exceeded the estimated 
£8,800. And hes said that there  was nothing from the repair estimate to show  the costs  may 
increase. Ive taken  Mr Ps comments into account.  But, as I said,  its at LVs discretion  how 
it wished to settle the claim. And for the reasons I set out in my provisional, Im satisfied LV 
acted fairly  and reasonably in this respect. I dont think  Mr P has raised  anything  new. And I 
dont think his additional comments have changed my opinion on this
LV has said that it was concerned that the cost of repairs may have increased beyond  the 
£8,800 estimated. And I cant say that this is unreasonable. Its also entitled  to take into 
account the amount it would have received for the cars salvage  which  in this case  was 
around £2,000   to assess the most economical  way to settle the claim.  And given the cost 
of repairs was high,  when compared  to the market value of the car, I cant  say this decision 
was unreasonable. 
Finally Mr P has said LV had a duty of care to discuss  the options regarding  writing his car 
off or having  it repaired. But I explained  in my provisional decision why I didnt think  LV acted 
unreasonably here.  I appreciate Mr P doesnt  agree with what I said.  But Mr Ps comments 
havent changed my opinion  on this. Ultimately, LV didnt have to discuss the decision to 
write the car off with Mr P before  it decided to do so. And it also wasnt  required to tell him he 
could keep the car if he wanted to do so, unless Mr P specifically asked to do so. I 
appreciate Mr P didnt  know he could  buy the salvage back.  But I cant  hold LV responsible 
for that
Ref: DRN44710836my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 21 March  2018, I dont 
uphold Mr Ps complaint  against Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4471083