K822xcomplaint
Mrs E says an appointed  representative of Legal  & General Partnership Services  Limited 
(L&G) mis-sold her a legal administration service and a will and estate planning package, 
when advising her in respect of a new mortgage.
A claims  management company (CMC) brings this complaint on Mrs Es behalf.
background
Mrs E remortgaged in April 2006. She was advised  by a mortgage  broker  from the firm 
Carrington Carr, which was an appointed representative of L&G at the time.
In April 2016, the CMC complained to L&G on Mrs Es behalf. It raised a number of concerns 
about the will and estate planning  package shed  been sold when taking out her new 
mortgage, and in respect of the costs  for the legal work shed been charged.  It said in 
summary that:
The will package  wasnt  suitable for Mrs E; 
The broker had unfairly benefitted from commission  paid by the will-writing  company 
(and which it believed  was a sister company);
Mrs E had been advised to use a particular solicitor  and pay for doing so  even 
though she couldve  got free legal services  from her chosen lender;
The broker had charged its own legal administration  fee, which wouldnt have been 
applied if Mrs E had been given  the option of using her own solicitor;
The broker received a financial benefit from the solicitor for referring Mrs E to them, but 
that hadnt been disclosed;
The costs for both services were well above  the market  rate; and
Both sets of costs  were inappropriately added to the mortgage balance   costing Mrs E 
more in additional interest.
L&G didnt uphold  the complaint in respect of the legal costs. It said there  was no evidence  
to support the contention that Mrs E had been  coerced into using a particular solicitor,  or that 
a free legal service was available with her chosen lender. 
In respect of the will package, L&G thought  the recommendation  had been  suitable but 
agreed that it wasnt right to fund that through  the mortgage. So it offered to refund the 
interest paid on that amount until Mrs Es mortgage  product was due to end in April 2021. 
It also offered £150 for the inconvenience caused.  
Mrs E didnt accept L&Gs  offer and the CMC  referred the complaint to us. While  it was with 
us, L&G made an offer to settle the issue of commission being paid by the solicitor  to the 
broker. The CMC accepted that in resolution of that aspect of the complaint.
my initial conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on Mrs Es complaint in January. In summary, I said:
I didnt think it had been bad advice  for the broker to suggest that Mrs E keep the 
arrangements for her estate under review, or to make  a will if she didnt already have 
one in place. 
Ref: DRN40998622I noted that the broker  and the will provider had directors  in common,  but I didnt find it 
inherently wrong that the broker would introduce  Mrs E to a particular  company,  even  if 
they shared (some) directors. There was no evidence  of any commission  or other 
incentive for it to have  done so. I couldnt see it was a condition of taking  out the 
mortgage, or that Mrs E was otherwise led to believe  that she had to take out a will with 
this particular  firm. And I thought she wouldve  had ample  time and opportunity to 
decline the will package if shed not wished to take it out. 
As the will package itself had been provided  by a third party, the question as to whether 
it provided  value  for money wasnt something  I could direct to L&G. Such concerns 
ought to be directed  to the provider.
I agreed that it hadnt been good advice to fund the will package by adding the fee to the 
mortgage balance,  particularly in view of a cash surplus  that was seemingly generated 
under the remortgage. But I thought L&G had already  made a fair offer to put that right,  
so I didnt think it needed to do anything further.
I couldnt see that Mrs E couldve  got a free legal service elsewhere, so I didnt think  it 
was inappropriate for the broker  to introduce her to a firm that could help her. There  
would always  have  been a cost for the necessary  legal  work. I didnt think the fee Mrs E 
had paid (of around £540)  seemed significantly above the going  rate. It had also been 
lower than the costs  shed been quoted at the outset. 
The CMC had said that the legal costs had included a legal administration  fee paid to 
the broker.  From what Id seen, it wasnt clear  if that was definitely the case. But from 
what I knew of the brokers typical sales processes around the time, I thought Mrs E 
probably had been  charged a legal administration fee  and L&G had accepted  as much 
in its final response. But as I couldnt see that fee had been  properly explained  to Mrs E 
or that shed  agreed to pay it, I thought L&G ought to refund it.
The CMC didnt respond to my provisional decision. L&G did. It sent me a copy  of a form 
signed by Mrs E to authorise deduction of £229.13 from the mortgage funds for the 
conveyancing costs, and £293.75 to the broker for the legal administration fee. It added that 
in the event, Mrs E had only paid £143.75 in respect of the legal administration fee.
L&Gs further information changed  my mind in respect of the legal administration  fee. So I 
issued a second provisional decision on Mrs Es complaint last month,  explaining that I no 
longer thought L&G needed to refund this fee and that its existing offer was a fair way to 
settle this complaint.
I noted that the form Mrs E had signed  (a Solicitors  Form of Authorisation) confirmed her 
instruction to pay £250 plus VAT to the broker in respect of the legal administration  service, 
on top of the legal costs (£195 plus VAT) to be paid to the solicitor. So I was satisfied that 
the fee had been  discussed with her and that shed agreed to it upfront. So shed been 
provided with the service  that shed asked  and paid for. And while  she appeared to have 
ended up paying  a different amount, that was lower  than the quote  so that hadnt  caused 
her any detriment.
Neither party responded to my second  provisional decision with any further comments or evidence.
Ref: DRN40998623my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with neither party having  sent me anything further to take into 
consideration since my second provisional decision, I see no reason to reach  a different 
conclusion. So this decision  confirms the findings of that decision, as summarised above.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Es complaint  in part and require 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited to honour its offers  in respect of the will and 
estate planning  package and the commission paid by the conveyancing solicitors.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4099862