K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains AXA Insurance  UK Plc hasnt handled his insurance claim fairly. Hes also 
unhappy with the customer service he received during  the claim.
background
Mr B has a Tesco Home Insurance Policy which is underwritten by AXA.  His policy covers 
his homes contents,  as well as personal  possession worn or carried  outside the home.
In August  2017  Mr Bs house was burgled  whilst he was away on holiday.  Mr B reported the 
burglary to the police and made a claim under his insurance policy  for approximately  
£50,000s worth of stolen  items. The claim was investigated and AXA agreed to pay out 
approximately £25,000 to settle  Mr Bs claim.  Mr B was unhappy with the time it took AXA to 
look into his claim, and with AXA declining some  items he claimed for as well as not paying  
enough for others. So he complained.
AXA investigated Mr Bs complaint  and agreed  to pay for some  items that it had not 
previously paid for, and to pay more for others. However, AXA didnt agree to pay for a 
watch that Mr B had said was worth  over £9,000 which he said would cost him over £15,000 
to replace. Nor did AXA agree to pay Mr B for upgrades and software hed said hed added  
to his computer. Mr B was unhappy  with AXAs response, particularly the fact that AXA was 
asking him to provide the serial number for the watch having previously accepted 
photographs alone. He was also unhappy  that hed provided evidence of the upgrades that 
hed made  to his computer and that this evidence had been rejected. Mr B complained  to us, 
saying that AXA also kept on changing  its reasons  for not paying the whole of his claim.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. They thought that 
AXA had handled  Mr Bs claim fairly, and had compensated him where things had gone 
wrong. Mr B didnt agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  So Ive looked into 
his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In a case like this, I have  to look at how the claim has been handled and decide whether or 
not it has been handled fairly. Thats not the same as deciding  the claim itself.
Ive seen Mr Bs policy, the claim Mr B made  and the claim notes, amongst other things. 
Having done so, I can see that there were initially some concerns about  Mr Bs claim  
understandably given that it was a relatively  high value claim involving a number of 
expensive items of jewellery  and watches amongst other things. So I can see why this claim 
was looked at by a number of different people. More importantly, I can see that the concerns 
were investigated  properly as a result  of which AXA was satisfied that the claim was a 
genuine one.
Having seen the evidence Ive just mentioned,  I can see that AXA has applied its approach 
to handling claims  when deciding whether or not to pay out the claim. That includes AXA 
applying its approach to the evidence needed  to substantiate claims for items worth more 
than £5,000. Unfortunately for Mr B that meant AXA rejected his claim for the watch  he said 
Ref: DRN40576752was worth over £9,000  because a photograph isnt enough for AXA when it comes to 
substantiating claims for items worth more  than £5,000  it requires more. I dont think  AXA 
was acting unfairly when it asked Mr B to produce more  evidence to back up his claim for 
that particular  watch  the other  watches it had agreed to pay for were worth  less than 
£5,000 so less substantiation  was required. Under the terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy, 
AXA is entitled to ask for proof of ownership and / or proof of loss when a claim is made  and 
thats what it did. Mr B had also specified the other watches  AXA agreed to pay for when he 
took out his policy  he hadnt specified the watch worth over £9,000   and that was also a 
factor in AXA accepting the claim for those  other  watches. Nor do I think AXA acted unfairly 
when it said it wouldnt pay out more for Mr Bs laptop  the software he said had been 
added to the laptop was either software  that could  be downloaded again because  Mr B 
would have registered for it, or software that was more  likely to be used for business 
purposes. I can also see that AXA reversed some of the earlier  decisions it made  for 
example, it reversed its decision not to decline a claim for a pre-paid card that was stolen  
during the burglary. In the circumstances,  I cant say that AXA has acted unfairly in the 
handling of Mr Bs claim. So Im not going  to ask AXA to do more. Im aware AXA hasnt paid 
Mr B for the pre-paid card, but thats because  he hasnt  shown  evidence  of its purchase.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4057675