K821x#15complaint
The estate  of Ms W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt  respond  to a request for 
information about her holdings  which meant legal work had to be recompleted  at a cost to 
the estate. 
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 12 March  2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld.  I 
invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make. 
my findings
The estate  of Ms W responded and provided  a list of additional costs that had been incurred 
as a result  of the extra legal work  that had to be completed. But the representative didnt 
specifically confirm whether the decision had been  accepted. 
Barclays responded to say it didnt accept. Barclays said it was willing to pay the costs for 
completing incorrect inheritance tax forms but is concerned at some  of the costs detailed  by 
the executors.  
Barclays also queried whether any incorrect inheritance tax forms were  completed before it 
supplied the correct information in July 2018. Barclays raised some concerns over whether 
the costs provided  are reasonable.  
In addition, Barclays raised concerns that the invoice includes  costs  for work completed by 
the executors  for bringing this complaint when the Financial Ombudsman Service offers a 
free service.  
Barclays has raised several points so Ill deal with each in turn. Im pleased Barclays has 
accepted that its fair to cover  additional legal costs incurred as a result of its failure  to 
respond to the email  of 21 March 2018. But Barclays response says it thinks  the only cost it 
should have to cover is the £180 plus VAT being charged for completing inheritance tax 
forms. I dont agree.  
After Barclays provided correct information about the late Ms Ws holdings the correct forms 
could be submitted, but as the estate  had already been dealt with that came  at an additional  
cost. As I explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied the solicitors  acting as executors 
had to complete  additional legal work as a result of Barclays failure to respond.  So I think  its 
fair for Barclays to meet those costs. 
Barclays says the complaint letters  of 27 June 2018  and 11 July 2018 make  no mention 
incorrect inheritance  tax forms. But the complaint letter  of 1 August 2018 explains  that 
because of Barclays failure to respond  a different set of inheritance  tax forms had to be 
completed in July 2018. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied  thats the case.
Ref: DRN42563312Barclays has raised concerns that the solicitors  included costs incurred in bringing this 
complaint. I agree that we dont always ask a business to cover legal expenses  for bringing a 
complaint. But this is an unusual case as the complainant is an estate and the executors, the 
individuals legally  able to bring  the complaint, are solicitors acting in their professional roles. 
That means they will charge for any work thats  completed on behalf of the estate,  including 
dealing with a complaint.  Ultimately, if Barclays doesnt cover  the cost of their time in dealing 
with the complaint the estate of Ms W will have to pay them and I dont  think  thats fair. And I 
think the important  thing to note is that its more likely than not that those costs wouldnt 
have been incurred if Barclays had responded to the email of 21 March 2018. 
Im satisfied that if Barclays had done things differently the estate of Ms W wouldve  been  
dealt with without  the need for additional legal work and the costs that involved. Ive looked 
at the costs as emailed  to this service on 18 March  2019 and they appear to be reasonable. I 
still think the fairest approach remains to tell Barclays to pay the additional legal costs 
incurred by the estate of Ms W. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay the 
additional legal costs the estate of Ms W incurred - as set out in the costings received by this 
service on 18 March  2019. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the executors of 
the estate of Ms W to accept or reject  my decision before 27 April 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Copy provisional  decision dated 12 March  2019
complaint
The estate of Ms W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt  respond to a request for
information about her holdings which meant  legal  work had to be recompleted at a cost to
the estate.
background
Ms W was a Barclays customer  before her death on 9 November 2017. Two solicitors were
appointed as executors of the late Ms Ws estate. The executors appointed a third party
Ref: DRN42563313business to obtain information about the late Ms Ws holdings from financial  institutions.
The third party wrote  to Barclays on 21 March 2018 and requested information  about any
accounts the late Ms W had with it. A copy of the death  certificate  along  with the executors
authority to proceed was sent with the letter.  In addition, an email version of the letter, the
third partys authority and death certificate were also sent to Barclays.
No response was received from Barclays.
The executors proceeded to wind up the estate without knowledge of the late Ms Ws
holdings with Barclays.
When the executors  later found out about the funds the late Ms W held with Barclays
arrangements were  made to have them paid to the estate.
The executors then complained  on behalf of the late Ms Ws estate  and said Barclays initial
failure to respond  meant  additional legal work  was required to resubmit the inheritance tax
submissions. The executors  asked  Barclays to cover  the additional costs but it didnt agree
as it couldnt find a trace  of receiving the letter sent by the third party on 21 March 2018.
Barclays also said that the third party shouldnt have  taken a lack of response as
confirmation that the late Ms W didnt have any holdings  with it.
The complaint was referred to this service and an adjudicator looked  at what had happened.
But they thought  Barclays had dealt with the complaint fairly so didnt ask it to do anything
else. As the estate of Ms W didnt agree,  the complaints been  passed to me to make a
decision.
Mr W, who works for the third party and was appointed by the executors, brings  this
complaint on behalf of the estate of Ms W.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays says it has no record of receiving the third partys letter  dated  21 March 2018
requesting confirmation of the late Ms Ws holdings  so couldnt respond. I think thats a
reasonable point but the third party has also provided  evidence that the same information
was sent to Barclays by email on 21 March 2018.
The adjudicator asked Barclays  to try and trace the email and its been unable  to do so. But
Ive seen the email that was sent and, unlike the posted letter, Im satisfied it was received
by Barclays. The email  asked  clear questions about the late Ms Ws holdings and contained
a death certificate as well as authority from the executors for the third party  to act on behalf
of the estate. I dont know whether that wouldve  been  enough  for Barclays to have released
the information requested by the third party or not. But I think Barclays shouldve either
responded with a request  for additional confirmation the third party  was acting on behalf of
the estate or the information theyd requested.
I take Barclays point that a lack of response isnt the same as confirmation of no holdings,
but I dont think thats fair in the circumstances. From what Ive seen Im satisfied Barclays
received an email request  for information and its failure  to respond has had an impact on
how the estate has been dealt with by the executors.
Ref: DRN42563314The executors acting to settle the estate have advised that additional legal  costs have been
incurred as a direct result  of not receiving a response from Barclays. I dont think  its fair that
the estate should have to cover those increased  costs.
From what Ive seen, the key issue here was Barclays  failure to respond to the third partys
email dated  21 March 2018.  Had Barclays  responded, I dont believe any additional costs
wouldve been  incurred  by the estate. As a result, I intend to uphold this complaint and tell
Barclays to pay the additional legal costs the estate of Ms W has incurred as a result of not
receiving information about her holdings.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay the additional legal costs the estate of Ms W incurred, as discussed in 
this decision, subject  to vouching.
Mr W on behalf of the estate of Ms W and Barclays have until 12 April 2019 to send me
anything further theyd like me to consider before I make my final decision.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4256331