K821x#15complaint
Mr Y complains that Santander Consumer (UK) plc, trading  as Santander  Consumer 
Finance, hasnt responded to his financial difficulties positively and sympathetically  and 
about the way that its dealt with him.
background
A new van was supplied to Mr Y under  a conditional  sale agreement with Santander 
Consumer Finance that he signed  in September 2018. He agreed to make 48 monthly 
payments of £436.83  and there  was a final payment of £5,300. He made the first payment in 
October 2018 but not the payment  due in November 2018  so Santander Consumer Finance 
sent arrears letters to Mr Y asking  him to contact it. 
He replied by e-mail in December 2018  and said that he was experiencing financial 
difficulties due to a family bereavement and he asked for contact to be by e-mail and for his 
payment date to be changed. The payment date wasnt changed  and Santander Consumer 
Finance wrote to Mr Y and said that it wouldnt  communicate with him by e-mail as it wasnt 
secure. 
Santander Consumer  Finance tried to contact Mr Y by phone  when a further payment was 
missed and then sent a default notice to him in January  2019.  Mr Y complained to it later 
that month.  It set out the actions that it had taken and explained why it wouldnt 
communicate with him by e-mail. It apologised that his request to change his payment date 
hadnt been actioned and said that it was willing to reduce  the outstanding arrears  on his 
account by £50. Mr Y wasnt satisfied  with its response so complained  to this service.
A further  default  notice was sent to Mr Y in March 2019 and Santander Consumer Finance 
terminated the agreement in April 2019. Fees  and charges have been applied to Mr Ys 
account but it hasnt repossessed the van.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  in part. She thought that 
Santander Consumer  Finance couldve communicated  with Mr Y better but she didnt think  
they it had acted unfairly in terminating the agreement. She said Mr Y had only made  the 
October payment  and a token payment of £50 in March 2019 for the van. She didnt  think  it 
had acted unfairly by applying  fees and charges to his account. She thought  that Mr Y 
needed to engage with Santander Consumer Finance in order to come  to an agreement 
about the arrears  on his account. She recommended that it should  pay £150  compensation 
to Mr Y.
Santander Consumer  Finance has agreed  to pay £150 to Mr Y but he has asked  for his 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says,  in summary, that:
he wrote  to Santander Consumer Finance on numerous occasions asking what it 
would accept (including a request to renegotiate the agreement by extending it to 
absorb arrears or just paying the interest  while he was in financial  difficulties)  but it 
didnt reply to those letters; and
the monthly payment on his agreement is higher than he wanted  it to be  and he 
complained about  that in September 2019.
Ref: DRN47888712my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y signed  the agreement in September 2018  and agreed to make 48 monthly  payments of 
£436.83 and a final payment of £5,300 for the van. He says that he only wanted to pay £250 
each month  for the van so the payments are unaffordable for him. But he didnt complain 
about that until September 2019 and that issue wasnt included in the complaint  that he 
made to Santander  Consumer  Finance.  That issue wasnt  addressed in its final response 
letter to him and Im unable to consider it as part of this complaint. If Mr Y wants to complain 
that the agreement was mis-sold to him and that it was unaffordable for him he should first 
complain about  that to Santander Consumer Finance and then  if hes not satisfied with its 
response  he may be able to complain to this service.
Although hed agreed to make monthly payments of £436.83 for the van, the only payments 
that he actually  made  to Santander Consumer Finance before it terminated the agreement 
were the October  payment and a payment of £50 in March 2019. I sympathise with Mr Y for 
the family  bereavements  that hes suffered and for the financial difficulties that hes 
described. 
A finance provider  is required  to respond to a customers financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. That doesnt mean that it is obliged to refund charges, or to take any other 
particular action, as whats  appropriate  in each  case will depend on the customers  individual 
circumstances.
Mr Y asked to change his payment date and that wasnt actioned by Santander  Consumer 
Finance. It has apologised for that and offered to reduce the arrears on his account by £50. 
I consider that to have been  a fair and reasonable  response to its error   but it wasnt 
accepted by Mr Y.
Its clear that Mr Y wanted to communicate with Santander Consumer Finance by e-mail but 
it said in its letters to him that it didnt consider e-mail to be a secure form of communication  
and wouldnt  discuss his agreement with him by e-mail. It sent him letters and tried to 
contact him by phone. The investigator thought that alternative methods couldve  been used 
to come to an agreement with Mr Y and she recommended that it should pay him £150 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  that he was caused. Santander Consumer 
Finance has accepted that recommendation. I dont consider that it was inappropriate for it to 
say that it wouldnt  discuss  his agreement with him by e-mail.  Mr Y has clearly been caused  
distress and inconvenience by that. But Im not persuaded that compensation of more than 
£150 for that distress and inconvenience  is justified in these circumstances.
Mr Y did send letters to Santander Consumer Finance about his payments and asked it what 
it would  accept from him. But it sent him arrears letters  and default notices which clearly set 
out the actions  that he needed  to take.  I consider that it would be reasonable to expect Mr Y 
to have done more to contact it in response  to those letters and notices than he did. 
Santander Consumer  Finance has applied  fees and charges  to Mr Ys account and it says 
that the outstanding balance on his account is £7,967.94. He still has the van but it says that 
Mr Y hasnt made a payment arrangement with it and no payments have been received  from 
him for fourteen  months. I consider that the fees and charges have been applied in 
Ref: DRN47888713accordance with the terms  and conditions of the agreement  and Im not persuaded that it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to refund any of those charges to Mr Y. 
I suggest that Mr Y contacts Santander  Consumer Finance  to try to arrange an affordable  
payment plan for the amount that he owes it. Its required  to respond to any financial 
difficulties that hes experiencing both positively and sympathetically.
I consider that its fair and reasonable for Santander Consumer Finance to pay Mr Y the 
£150 compensation that was recommended by the investigator.  But I find that it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable  in these circumstances for me to require it to take any other  action in 
response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ys complaint in part  and I order 
Santander Consumer  Finance to pay him £150 to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience that hes been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4788871