K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Santander UK Plc sent a text message telling her she was close  to 
reaching the credit limit on her credit card to her husbands phone  number.
background
Miss D complained to Santander because it had sent a text message saying she was close  
to reaching the credit  limit on her credit  card to her husbands phone  number. She said she 
hadnt given her husbands  phone  number as a contact number.
Santander said Miss D had provided her husbands  phone number as a contact number via 
its website. So it didnt  think it had done anything wrong. It told her it had deleted her 
husbands phone number from her profile and this would stop any further  communication  to 
it.
Our investigator didnt  think Miss Ds complaint should be upheld. He said he was satisfied 
that Miss Ds husbands number had been  registered on the account and he didnt  think 
Santander had done anything wrong by sending an alert to this number. While Miss Ds 
number was registered as the primary phone number (and to receive passcodes),  her 
husbands phone number was registered as the preferred contact number for the alert 
service.
Miss D disagreed with our investigators  view.  She said she accepted that her phones  
autofill might have put her husbands phone number on her account. But she thought there 
was a flaw in Santanders data system  in allowing  one number to receive passcodes and 
different number to receive alerts. And she didnt  think this was made clear. 
As Miss D disagreed with our investigators  opinion, her complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has sent us its records of the information  Miss D provided. I can see she gave her 
own mobile number  when she registered for the account. But it looks  like she gave her 
husbands contact  number when she registered for the alert service  later on. 
Miss D accepts that her husbands telephone number  is likely to have been unintentionally  
provided by her. But she thinks  Santander  should take responsibility for allowing more than 
one mobile number for different services. She believes this is a flaw in Santanders system.
But its not up to me to say how Santander  should  set up its systems.  This is a commercial  
decision. I can only consider Santanders actions in relation to Miss Ds account. As the 
phone number it sent the message to seems to have been provided by Miss D, I dont think  
Santander did anything  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Ref: DRN49535162Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2019.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4953516