K820x#13complaint
Mrs S says Bank of Scotland  Plc  trading  as Halifax - mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mrs S bought the policy in 2002  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
Halifax shouldve made Mrs S aware she had a choice about taking out the policy.  Halifax 
has sent us a copy of Mrs Ss signed credit agreement. It looks like the form was filled in and 
printed off by Halifax and was then signed by Mrs S. The form has a section for the PPI and 
this has been  marked with an x to opt for the policy. The form also contains Mrs Ss 
personal information, such as her job, mothers maiden name and date of birth.  This 
suggests a conversation took place between Mrs S and Halifaxs employee  and the form has 
been filled in based on what was discussed. So I think its likely Mrs S was aware of the 
contents of the form and she chose to take the policy  although I can understand why she 
cant remember this. 
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mrs S so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think  that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mrs S says she cant remember  if she wouldve  received  any sick pay benefits  from her 
employer. The policy would have paid out alongside any benefits she might  have received, 
as well as covering her repayments if she became unemployed. And it doesnt look like    
Mrs S had any other means   such as savings  she could have  used. So Halifax  wasnt  
wrong to recommend the policy to her. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs S paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs S back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs S now Ive issued my final decision.
Ref: DRN44497572my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4449757