K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Bank of Scotland plc hasnt  been able to race a refund make  to her 
credit card. She would like the sum that should  have been  credited (£1,419.68) refunded.
background
Miss G says that due to flights  she booked on her BOS credit card being  delayed the 
relevant airline  company agreed to pay her £1,419.68  compensation. 
She says the company wrote  to her confirming that the bank transfer for the compensation 
payment was made on 15 November 2018.
Miss G says that she has been in contact with BOS  numerous times  but it has been unable  
to locate the payment.
BOS acknowledged  its customer service had been  poor. As result it compensated Miss G a 
total of £281 to reflect this and to cover  the cost of phone calls. It said the airline  company  
had used the correct IBAN  number. But hadnt given Miss Gs 16 digit credit card number as 
reference which explained why BOS had not been able to trace the payment.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He found BOS  had done  all it could to trace the 
relevant payment. But hadnt been able to do so. He said it was the responsibility  of the 
sending bank to make the necessary  enquiries when payments werent received.  He 
thought the fact the airline company  hadnt  used Miss Gs credit  card number as a reference 
number was likely to be the reason why BOS hadnt received the money. 
He did find BOSs customer  service  had been poor. But felt the total compensation of £281 
that it had paid was fair.
BOS accepted this view but Miss G didnt and asked  for an Ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G feels  strongly about  this and I do understand why. There  is no dispute  that the airline 
agreed it would compensate Miss G for delayed flights. Miss G has given us evidence  of 
that. And also evidence  from the airline to say it has made the relevant  payment.  That  was 
in November 2018. And Miss G still hasnt received the payment which  was for a significant  
amount of money   over £1, 0000.
I can also see from the correspondence Miss G has sent us that she has made  numerous  
phone calls. And sent numerous emails to BOS about this.
BOS has acknowledged  that its customer service hasnt been of the standard  Miss G could 
have expected. It has given Miss G a total of £281  compensation  to reflect  this. And to cover 
the cost of her phone calls. In the circumstances I think that was reasonable.
In term of the missing  payment I can see from the information that BOS has provided  that it 
has made efforts to try to trace this payment.  But hasnt been able to do so.
Ref: DRN45848292BOS has concluded  that as the reference number  the airline used wasnt  Miss Gs 16 digit 
credit card number. It thinks that would  explain the problem as it would normally expect the 
credit card number to be used as a reference.  That seems a reasonable to me as that would 
be an obvious way to link the payment to Miss G.
I have every sympathy with Miss G that she still hasnt received the compensation payment. 
And I know this isnt the conclusion she wanted. But I do think she does need to go back to 
the airline about this. 
Its not unreasonable for the sending bank to make  the necessary enquires as to what 
happened to a missing payment. As our investigator has said it may be it used an 
intermediary bank to make the payment.
But looking  at all the information I have I agree BOS could have handled the issue better. 
But I do feel it has done as much as it could to try to trace  the payment but hasnt been able 
to do so.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4584829