K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1993 
alongside a mortgage. Mr D and Miss J say Bank  of Scotland  plc (BoS), Leeds  Building 
Society at the time, mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr D and Miss Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr D and Miss J say they took out the PPI because they believed  it was compulsory, and at 
no point were they told it was optional. Ive thought  about what  Mr D and Miss J have said.  
However, as I wasnt present in the meeting where  PPI was sold I have to look at the 
evidence available  and come to a decision on what I think is more  likely to have happened. 
And unfortunately Ive not seen any other  evidence to support what theyve said.  
BoS says the optional  nature of the policy wouldve been made clear to Mr D and Miss J 
before the sale was concluded. And it has sent me a copy of their mortgage application from 
the time which shows there was a separate section for PPI. In this section the monthly  
benefit has been entered and a 50/50 benefit  split has been selected  for each applicant. But 
there is nothing here to suggest that the policy had to be taken out or that its inclusion would 
have an effect  of their mortgage application.  
Ive also seen a copy of a separate PPI application form which was completed and signed at 
the same  time as the mortgage application.  This form sets out the amount of cover Mr D and 
Miss J wanted and the cost of the policy. They both signed this document  as well, confirming 
they wanted the PPI policy. 
So based  on the evidence Ive seen  I think that BoS made it clear  that Mr D and Miss J didnt 
have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out  although I can understand  why 
they cant remember this.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr D and Miss J so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and 
they seem  to have  had a need for the cover.
Mr D and Miss J say they were both entitled to generous sick pay and other employee 
benefits, so they didnt  need this cover. Ive thought about what  theyve said, and while I 
dont doubt that these  benefits wouldve been  useful  for them, the PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to their sick pay and for longer  than their full sick pay entitlement wouldve lasted. 
So these funds couldve been used for other  expenses. And thinking about the 
consequences of not meeting their mortgage repayments, I think  having the policy  in place 
provided them with some additional  security. So I dont think  their sick pay entitlement  meant 
the PPI wasnt suitable  for them. 
Ref: DRN41908912Mr D and Miss J also say they werent  given any information about  the policy and werent  
told what the PPI would cost. But looking at the PPI application form I can see that the 
approximate cost of the policy was clearly  set out as well as the monthly benefit. So I think 
they wouldve  known  roughly what the policy wouldve costed  them per month before 
agreeing to the cover.
It is possible some of the other information  BoS gave Mr D and Miss J about  the PPI wasnt  
as clear as it shouldve been  and they feel strongly about this point.  But it seems like it 
would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put them  off taking out the 
cover.
This means  Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI. But 
Bank of Scotland plc has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr D and Miss J because:  
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr D and Miss J about that. Because  Bank of 
Scotland didnt  tell them,  that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr D and Miss J.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr D and Miss J any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. If Mr D and Miss J havent yet received 
this money, they should contact Bank of Scotland plc in the first instance.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4190891