K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that he wasnt  told that a car supplied with finance from Close Brothers  
Limited was a Category D.
background
In June 2018 Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into an agreement  with Close 
Brothers.
Mr C later discovered that the car was a Category D. He contacted the dealership and Close  
Brothers to raise his concerns about this.
Initially, Close Brothers agreed to unwind the agreement  and told Mr C to return  the car to 
the dealership.  Subsequently Close Brothers changed its mind because of documents  
provided by the dealership which changed  its view of the complaint. Close  Brothers asked 
Mr C to collect the car from the dealership.
During the time he thought the agreement had been cancelled  Mr C purchased another car. 
Hes unhappy that hes had to pay tax, insurance  and storage costs  for his old car.
In its final response Close  Brothers  said the online advert for the car stated it was a 
Category D. It also said the invoice  from the dealership stated the car was a Category D.
Mr C wasnt happy with Close Brothers response. He said he wasnt told the car was a 
Category D and that the invoice provided  by the dealership wasnt  the same as the invoice 
hed been given at the point of supply.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She was satisfied  that Mr C hadnt seen the online 
advert for the car and that the invoice held by Mr C was different to the invoice provided  to 
Close Brothers by the dealership. The investigator  also said the purchase  price didnt reflect 
the fact that the car was a Category D. She recommended  that the agreement  was 
cancelled.
Close Brothers didnt  agree. It said the evidence it held showed that Mr C was aware  that the 
car was a Category D and that the purchase  price was consistent  with similar Category D 
models.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that the car was advertised as a Category D online. However, Mr C has said 
that he noticed the car as he was passing by the dealership. The invoice states passing on 
it. Based  on this Im satisfied that Mr C didnt see the online advert.
Ive looked at the invoice  provided to Close  Brothers  by the dealership.  It says Category D 
on it. But Mr C says he wasnt given the same invoice. His invoice is different and doesnt 
say Category D on it.
Ref: DRN41222942Ive also taken into account what Close Brothers  has said about  its lending policy on 
Category D cars. It says it isnt something it offers but if the dealership makes it aware of it 
and it is satisfied that the consumer is fully aware as well, lending on Category D cars can be 
considered.
I havent been provided with any evidence from Close Brothers  to suggest that it was aware 
that the car was a Category D at the point of supply.  Nor am I satisfied that Close  Brothers 
took steps to make  sure that Mr C was aware that the car was a Category D at the point of 
supply. Because  of this, I dont think Close Brothers  knew that the car was a Category D 
when the agreement was entered into.
On the available evidence Im not persuaded that Mr C was aware that the car was a 
category D.
I dont think the purchase price of the car is a determining factor.  Theres  no reason to think  
that the price  indicated  to Mr C (as an average consumer) that the car was in any particular 
category.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Close Brothers Limited  should:
End the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr C.
Refund the deposit of £1000 together with simple interest of 8% from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Pay compensation of £200 to Mr C for distress  and inconvenience
Remove any adverse  information relating to the agreement  from Mr Cs credit file
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4122294