K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that the goods supplied for use in his business,  through  a hire agreement 
financed by Siemens  Financial Services Ltd werent  of satisfactory quality.  He wants a 
refund of expenditure hes incurred in repairing  and replacing faulty items.
background
Mr B tells us that he hired a security  system  for his business from Siemens on a five year 
lease in August  2017. He says hes had nothing but problems since and has had to replace 
most of the cameras and CCTV  recorders  amongst other items. He also states that the 
installation was sub-standard with a monitor falling off the wall and smashing. Mr B says the 
items were initially acquired  from a company Ill call SV and installed by a business Ill call 
P and came with a five year warranty. But he explains that both businesses have ceased 
trading. So hes turned to Siemens for help with the costs.
Siemens issued a final response letter in June  2019. It said that in line with the terms of the 
signed contract,  the liability for repairs and maintenance fell on Mr B. It also said that Mr B 
hadnt supplied  any receipts for the replacement  items.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 February 2021. Since then both parties 
have replied. Siemens had nothing  to add. Mr B expressed his suspicions about why the 
businesses that were involved in the supply and installations have ceased trading. And he 
said hed made  an offer of settlement to Siemens but hadnt received a reply.
I thank both parties for their replies.  But as no new material information has been supplied,  
Im not minded  to change my provisional  view which is largely repeated  in my final decision 
set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr B has experienced numerous problems with the security equipment he 
hired. And its unfortunate  that the businesses  through  which  he acquired and installed the 
goods have ceased trading. This has meant  he cant act against  the parties which were  
probably the direct cause  of the problems.
Mr Bs complaint is that the system with which he was supplied  wasnt  of satisfactory  quality 
or fit for purpose.  And that as hes had to substantially replace the system at his own 
expense, he feels  that Siemens should  cover these costs.
Mr Bs hire agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service  is able to 
consider complaints relating to it. Siemens supplied the goods so subject to any valid 
exclusion clauses its responsible for complaints  about the quality of the goods.
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every  single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this.
Ref: DRN47981482This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Mr B doesnt seem  to meet the 
definition of a consumer for the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) to apply. That is because  
he was going  to use the goods solely for the purposes of his business.  But previous 
legislation is similar in requiring goods to be of satisfactory quality. So that aspect wouldnt 
materially alter my conclusions.
I think its probable that some of the equipment with which Mr B was supplied failed to meet  
the requirement of being of satisfactory  quality. Ive seen a report from a company Ill call 
W. which refers to it being called upon to repair and replace numerous items of faulty 
equipment. This letter stated that there was very little of the original equipment  left. But in the 
absence of specific invoices I couldnt  be sure about  all the items  to which this description 
might apply. I dont believe this materially affects my decision for reasons Ill explain.
When entering a legal agreement its open  to contracting parties to accept  that the 
agreement should  contain exclusion clauses. In summary, where this applies some of the 
usual remedies  in this case those relating to satisfactory  quality - may not apply.
Here, it appears that Mr B initially selected the goods and acquired them from SV. The 
purchase cost was paid by Siemens who in turn hired the system to Mr B. The hire 
agreement  which is a standard form contract - contains provisions that exclude  Siemens 
being liable for the satisfactory quality  of the goods.
In particular clause  6 g states:  
It is therefore you, and not us, assume  the risk of the Equipment:
Not being of satisfactory quality; 
Exclusion clauses are usually subject to the test of fairness and not all risks may be 
excluded.
Siemens had no part in choosing or installing the equipment. And Mr B would be better 
placed than Siemens to judge  what he required  to protect his premises.  Were it not for the 
dealer and installer both ceasing trading Mr B wouldve potentially been able to take action 
against those  businesses. So the exclusion clause at the time the agreement was incepted 
didnt leave Mr B without alternative  parties  against  whom to seek a remedy.  I also note that 
the agreement  did not include any ongoing maintenance costs.
The exclusion is clearly set out in the agreement and the Certificate of Acceptance. And it 
was open to Mr B to agree  or decline the terms on offer. I see no reason why Siemens 
shouldnt now be able to rely on the relevant clauses which overall  I conclude  were fair.
Ive asked Siemens  to consider a gesture of goodwill  and allow Mr B to retain the equipment 
at the end of the hire period. Siemens has agreed to this suggestion. Hopefully this will 
mitigate the loss incurred  by Mr B by not having  to replace the equipment when it was due 
for return at the end of the hire period. 
Ref: DRN47981483In summary,  I dont find that Siemens need do anything else in these circumstances.  I find 
the agreement  was freely entered  into by Mr B for the purposes of his business. And that he 
knew, or ought reasonably to have known,  that he had assumed the risks relating  to the hire 
equipment not proving to be of satisfactory  quality.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2021.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4798148