K821x#15complaint
Ms Ss complaint is about three instalment loans she took with Elevate Credit International 
Limited  trading as Sunny. She says these loans were unaffordable. 
background 
Sunny provided  Ms S with three  instalment loans between April and October  2016.  All three 
loan balances remain outstanding. Our adjudicator  thought  Sunny hadnt  done anything 
wrong when providing  Ms S with the first loan. But they thought that Sunny shouldnt  have 
provided loans  2 and 3 to Ms S. So, they partially upheld  Ms Ss complaint.
Sunny accepted our adjudicators view but said it wouldnt be removing any adverse 
information from Ms S credit file until she repaid the outstanding amounts. Ms S disagreed. 
She thought  the balances of both loans should have been written off as they shouldnt have 
been lent. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, the case  has been passed  to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Ms S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.  These  checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN45853842I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Ms S could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Ss complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Ms Ss complaint about loan 1. As Ms S has accepted the 
adjudicators opinion about  this loan, I wont make any further findings on it. 
Sunny agreed  with our adjudicators findings that loans  2 and 3 shouldnt  have  been  lent. 
Looking at what the adjudicator said, I agree with their rationale for why these loans  werent 
suitable for Ms S. Ive noted Ms S comments about what  she wants Sunny to do to put 
things right. Whilst I agree that Sunny  could  have done more  before approving  the loans,  
Ms S has had the benefit  of the money and therefore the outstanding principal amounts still 
need repaying. So, I dont intend to direct Sunny to write  the balances  off. Instead I will be 
asking it to do what Ive laid out below. 
Sunny has said it wont be removing any adverse information about loans 2 and 3 from      
Ms S credit  report  until she has repaid the outstanding balance.  It has explained that this is 
what we normally require  it to do. However, I think Sunny is confusing our expectations with 
removal of loans entirely from someones  and what we are expecting it to do here. We 
normally say a business doesnt have  to remove any outstanding loans from a consumers 
credit file until these have been  repaid but that the business should still remove  any adverse 
information recorded about these  loans. 
For clarity I have outlined what Sunny has agreed to do below. 
putting things right  what Sunny has agreed to do
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts Sunny should buy these back  if Sunny is able to do 
so and then take the following steps.  If Sunny cant buy the debts back, then Sunny should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results outlined  below.
Ref: DRN45853843A) Sunny  should  add together  the total of the repayments  made by Ms S towards  interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld  loans  without an outstanding balance,  not including  anything 
Sunny has already refunded.
B) Sunny  should  calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual  payments made by 
Ms S which were  considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms S originally  made 
the payments,  to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Sunny should  remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Ms S as though  they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Ms S having made 
overpayments then Sunny should  refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus, 
then the surplus  should be paid to Ms S. However, if there is still an outstanding balance  
then Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms S. Sunny shouldnt  
pursue outstanding balances made  up of principal Sunny has already written-off.
E) Sunny  should  remove any adverse information  recorded on Ms Ss credit  file in relation to 
loans 2 and 3, regardless of whether there is an outstanding balance  remaining. 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Elevate Credit 
International Limited must give Ms S a certificate showing how much  tax its taken  off if she asks for 
one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I think what Elevate Credit International Limited has 
already agreed  to do to put things  right for Ms S is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of the complaint and I dont ask it to do any more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4585384