K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva). Hes unhappy Aviva 
provided him with incorrect  information  regarding Tax Free Cash  (TFC) hed decided  to take 
from his Self-Invested Personal  Pension  (SIPP).
background
Having chosen  to take the available 25% TFC from his SIPP, Mr Gs financial adviser sent 
Mr Gs application form to Aviva. At the time Mr G understood from his financial adviser that 
hed be receiving a TFC payment of around £57,000.
Following the submission of his application form Mr G received correspondence from Aviva 
which suggested the TFC available from Mr Gs SIPP was around £1,100  less than hed 
previously been  led to believe it would be. Mr G contacted Aviva and queried the change  in 
the TFC amount. He also sought reassurance there wouldnt  be any further  fluctuations in 
the TFC value. 
The Aviva representative  Mr G spoke  to explained  the change in the TFC amount was as a 
result of market fluctuations. But they confirmed the TFC amount was now locked in and 
wouldnt change.  
Shortly after the call with Mr G, Aviva wrote to Mr G confirming the TFC payment it had 
made to his account was £54,703.53.
Mr G later complained to Aviva  as the TFC payment he received was lower than the amount 
hed been advised hed receive.
Aviva considered the matter and in summary  said:
Mr G had been provided with inaccurate information by its representative on the 
telephone regarding the TFC amount. And confirmation Mr G had received  that the 
TFC figure  wouldnt decrease any further had been incorrect
it would provide feedback to the representative  Mr G had spoken with 
the reason Mr Gs TFC amount  had decreased  was due to a drop in the market so it 
couldnt pay him the higher TFC amount hed been  incorrectly  told hed receive
it was sorry for the misinformation  and poor service provided  to Mr G and had 
arranged to send  him £300 for distress  and inconvenience caused by this
Unhappy with Avivas  response Mr G referred  his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators  considered the matter and in summary said:
Aviva  had made an error but she didnt think it was fair to ask it to compensate Mr G 
with how much the TFC amount had dropped by due to changes in the market
Avivas offer of £300 compensation for what happened was fair 
Mr G disagreed with our investigator. In summary he said:
he understood the impact of market fluctuations and thats why hed contacted  Aviva  
to check thered be no further  drops  in his TFC amount
he wanted the TFC amount  hed been  told hed receive
Ref: DRN45649182he didnt think it was fair that despite  being  told something which wasnt  true, he was 
expected to accept this along  with the large  sum of money hed lost
As no agreement could be reached  Mr Gs complaint  was passed to me for a final decision 
on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
direct Aviva to do anything further.  Ill explain why. But before I do, I should  emphasise that 
while Ive taken note of the correspondence, arguments and comments  made  by both 
parties, I have limited my response to what I consider to be the issues  central to this 
complaint.  
I should firstly say I have  real sympathy  for Mr G. I can appreciate  it will have been both 
alarming and very disappointing  when  Mr G received Avivas letter confirming the TFC 
amount paid to him was lower  than the amount he was expecting to receive.  
Its clear to me that in an effort to understand things  better and gain reassurance around the 
exact amount  of TFC hed receive,  Mr G had made a point of contacting Aviva directly. 
Unfortunately it was during his call with Aviva at the time that Mr G was led to believe hed 
receive a certain  level of TFC as the amount wouldnt change again. This was later 
confirmed to be untrue.
There isnt any dispute about the fact that Aviva provided Mr G with incorrect information 
regarding the TFC hed receive. And Mr G is understandably concerned and deeply unhappy 
about this. 
The issue  I have to decide is whether the action Aviva has taken satisfactorily resolves  the 
matter and sufficiently  compensates  Mr G for the trouble and upset caused by what  
happened. 
Mr G says hes lost a lot of money  as a result  of Avivas error.  And I understand why he 
might feel this way. Indeed Mr G was led to believe hed receive a higher amount of TFC 
than he ultimately did. But while I can appreciate  Mr G may consider this to be a direct  
financial loss hes suffered, Im unable  to agree. I havent seen anything which persuades  
me that Mr G hasnt received the TFC amount hes entitled to from his SIPP.
In a situation like this, we aim to put consumers back in the position they would have  been  
in, had the correct  information been given, rather than a business being bound  by the 
incorrect information it did give.
So for Mr G, the correct information  is that hes entitled to the TFC Aviva provided him with, 
not the TFC amount he was previously incorrectly told was locked in.
Regarding valuations the terms and conditions applicable to Mr Gs SIPP  say:
We will value Funds at the end of each Business Day using the most recent  price  available 
from the Fund manager () This means that the price for a sale or purchase transaction is 
that calculated  at the valuation point after the transaction  has been placed by the Fund 
manager () the actual amount you receive may be more or less than that stipulated.
Ref: DRN45649183The TFC amount Mr G was entitled  to was 25% of the value of his SIPP  on the day it was 
crystallised. Establishing  the exact amount of retirement benefits a consumer  is entitled  to 
can only ever be known  when a pension is crystallised. Unless of course the benefits  quoted  
are guaranteed or where paperwork confirms that a fund value or TFC will not vary between  
the date of a quote/illustration and any subsequent payment. This wasnt the case  in Mr Gs 
circumstances.
The fact remains that the TFC Mr G was entitled to was always going to be based on the 
final value of his SIPP once underlying investments  had been sold (irrespective of whether 
the value was higher or lower than the figures initially quoted by Aviva).
Because Im satisfied  Mr G received the TFC amount he was entitled to from his SIPP I 
wont be asking Aviva to pay Mr G the difference between the TFC Mr G received and the 
amount the Aviva  representative incorrectly advised  was locked in and would therefore 
receive. This was based on incorrect information. I understand Mr G accepted what he was 
told by Aviva in good faith but Im unable to conclude on this basis that it would be 
reasonable to require  Aviva to now pay Mr G the TFC difference.  The starting point is that a 
plan holder should only receive the payments  theyre entitled to. So I dont think  it would  be 
fair to put Mr G in a better  financial position  than he wouldve been, had Aviva  been clear 
and correct about the TFC at the outset. 
In addition to providing Mr G with incorrect information I dont think  all of Avivas 
correspondence was as clear as it couldve been. Specifically I cant  see that Aviva was 
explicit about the fact that the TFC Mr G would ultimately receive could be more  or less than 
the amount quoted to him in its correspondence.  Indeed I wouldve expected Aviva at some 
point during Mr Gs application  process to reiterate whats in its terms and conditions- that 
the final TFC figure can only be determined after the transaction has been placed by the 
fund manager  at which point underlying investments invested in are sold.
Because of the absence of any clear  warning that the values quoted werent guaranteed and 
as a result  of the reassurance the Aviva  representative incorrectly  provided him with I think it 
was reasonable  for Mr G to expect hed receive the TFC amount Aviva  said was locked in.
Mr G was understandably very disappointed when he received TFC lower than hed 
expected. I can also understand  his frustration with Avivas  explanation and assurance that 
changes will be made going  forward to correct the matter. The situation could have easily  
been avoided  had Aviva  been clearer. Aviva unfairly  raised  Mr Gs expectations at an 
important time when he was no doubt  considering his financial position and retirement 
planning.
Turning now to the impact  of Avivas errors. Its clear to me trouble and upset  has 
undoubtedly been caused to Mr G. For what has happened Aviva has apologised and paid 
Mr R £300 compensation.  I think this level of award  is fair and reasonable and in line with 
what Id expect to see in the circumstances-  especially considering  the loss of expectation  
Mr G suffered and the avoidable distress and inconvenience caused. 
I have real sympathy for Mr G and can appreciate how upsetting this will all have been. Its 
clear to me that having  correct information  about the level of TFC hed receive was of great 
importance to Mr G and understandably  so as I believe it would have an impact on decisions 
he made about his retirement. Avivas error will have naturally undermined Mr Gs 
confidence in the service  it provides  and his faith in the information  it gives  him. But Aviva 
Ref: DRN45649184doesnt dispute the fact that it has got things wrong. It has apologised and offered  
compensation for what has happened. 
While Im not directing  Aviva to make the award  I understand Mr G would like, in that I dont 
think Aviva  should be bound to pay him retirement benefits based on the incorrect 
information it quoted or that it should offer further  compensation,  I should  say that I do think  
its entirely reasonable for Mr G to expect  Aviva to provide correct  information. And its 
unfortunate that in this case that didnt happen.  I am genuinely  sorry to hear of the impact  
that this has had on Mr G. I have sympathy for Mr Gs situation and the confusion and 
frustration he experienced.
I dont underestimate  or doubt Mr Gs sincerity or strength of feeling in bringing  his complaint 
to this service and I understand that my decision may come as a disappointment to him, but 
for the reasons Ive explained I wont be asking Aviva to do anything  further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Chillel Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4564918