K821x#15complaint
Mr A is unhappy about the advice he received from Nurture  Financial  Planning Ltd (Nurture). 
This was to transfer  his deferred  final salary  pension benefits to a Self-Invested  Personal 
Pension (SIPP) in order to buy Harlequin  Property; an unregulated overseas property 
development. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on 28 November 2018, a copy  of which is attached to and 
forms part of this decision.
Mr A accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further  to add.
Nurture did not accept  my provisional  decision. They made  the following points:
Mr A failed  to disclose a number  of material facts. Nurture did not know he was to be 
paid a financial inducement. Had that been  disclosed  it would have changed their 
approach to the advice.
The fact Mr A totally disregarded their advice  to de-risk his investments shows a 
wilful disregard to any advice that was given to him.
No consideration  has been given to what would have happened if Mr A hadnt 
received the financial inducement. Would he have  been  able to pay his rent or 
become bankrupt?
It would  have been difficult for Mr A to deal with his debts.  Nurture  argued that the 
only way to deal with this would be by way of bankruptcy or IVA. They did not agree 
with my general statement that Mr A could have found other ways to pay off his 
debts. Nurture asked  for further clarification of how this could have been resolved.
Nurture had no idea Harlequin would turn out to be a fraudulent investment. It had 
been scrutinised  by Guardian SIPP. If Mr A had considered his position he would 
have gone ahead anyway. The financial inducement  was his main  incentive to 
proceed.
Nurture did not agree it caused any of Mr As loss. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
Nurture should pay compensation  to Mr A for the reasons  given in my provisional decision.
I accept that Nurture didnt know that Mr A was receiving a payment from the Harlequin  
agent. But, Nurture was required  to give suitable advice. The advice should have been  not to 
transfer. So I have  to think about  what Mr A would have done  if he had been given suitable 
advice.
Clearly, Mr A was in a difficult financial position. And I accept that its possible that Mr A 
would have transferred  his pension even if Nurture had given suitable advice. But it is 
important to recognise that this was a transfer from a defined  benefit pension  scheme. 
These were  virtually guaranteed  benefits. The rules required an adviser to start by assuming 
that a transfer  would not be suitable.  
Ref: DRN42577032The investment actually required a rate of return of over 8% each year to match the benefits  
being given up. A higher  return  would be required to improve  on Mr As benefits.  
Nurture recognised  that Harlequin was high risk. It recommended a more  cautious approach  
for the rest of the funds in the SIPP. But the advice should have been not to invest in 
Harlequin. I think its likely that Mr A would have  had to explain  why he wanted  to invest  in 
Harlequin. And at that point its likely that he would  have revealed that he was receiving a 
payment from the Harlequin agent.  As Mr A told our adjudicators that he received a payment 
I dont see any reason why he wouldnt have told the adviser at Nurture.
The payments made to Mr A by the Harlequin agent were substantial. They were clearly a 
big incentive for Mr A to invest. But I think they should also have been  a warning sign about  
the investment.  I think its a reasonable assumption that the Harlequin  agent would have 
received a much larger payment. The amounts paid to the sales agents are one of the 
warning signs about Harlequin being a very high risk investment.
My decision  really turns on whether Mr A would have accepted a short  term benefit  against 
the risk of losing a large part of his pension fund. Nurture has argued that his options would 
have been limited and it was likely he would have  to apply for bankruptcy  or an IVA. I dont 
agree.
The details of Mr As circumstances did not record he had substantial debts. We now know  
that he used the payments from the Harlequin agent to pay his rent and repay some debt. 
But that doesnt indicate he was close to bankruptcy. I think other  options could have been  
available to him. For example, he could have relied on friends  and family to borrow money or 
live with them. I think such enquiries  would  now be difficult to make and almost  impossible to 
evidence.
I cannot be certain about what Mr A would have done, if he had been  given suitable advice. 
But he has indicated that he would not have transferred. I realise that he would now say that, 
but he wasnt given  suitable advice. He didnt have the opportunity  to act upon suitable  
advice. The available evidence  doesnt  indicate that he would have put his pension fund of 
over £105,000 at risk for a total payment of £5,500. Im not persuaded that his short  term 
financial needs were  so desperate that he would have transferred if he had been given 
suitable advice.
I remain of the view that Nurtures advice did cause Mr A to transfer his pension benefits and 
invest in the first Harlequin  property. But I dont think Nurture  caused the losses  for investing 
in the second Harlequin property.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr A as close to the position he would  now be in if he had been  given 
suitable advice.  I think that he would have  kept his final salary  benefits. Nurture should  
therefore calculate the loss Mr A suffered and pay compensation to Mr A as set out in my 
provisional decision.
Ref: DRN42577033my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Nurture  Financial  Planning  Ltd should calculate the loss suffered by 
Mr A and pay compensation to Mr A as set out in my provisional decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN42577034copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr A is unhappy about the advice he received from Nurture  Financial  Planning Ltd (Nurture). 
This was to transfer  his deferred  final salary  pension benefits to a Self-Invested  Personal 
Pension (SIPP) in order to buy Harlequin  Property; an unregulated overseas property 
development. 
background
Mr A was introduced to Harlequin by a third party unconnected to Nurture.  Mr A was then 
referred to Nurture to arrange a SIPP so that he could  invest in Harlequin.
In February 2012,  the adviser completed a fact find with Mr A. This recorded he was 
unemployed and had used up his capital and savings after being made redundant. Mr A also 
had other  liabilities  to repay. Mr A said that he was going through a tough  time and was 
earning very little from temporary employment. 
Mr As deferred pension benefits would provide him with an estimated pension income of 
£8,088 at age 65; plus a tax free cash sum of £3,143. The transfer  value was just under 
£105,000. The adviser was aware  that Mr A intended to invest  in Harlequin. 
Nurture gave advice  to Mr A about  his pension benefits. His priorities  were  recorded as 
using his pension  for his specific requirements. This was to buy a Harlequin property using 
part of his pension  fund.
Nurture agreed to give advice on the pension,  but not on the Harlequin investment. It said 
that the critical yield required to replace the benefits  being given up was 3.3%  a year.  This 
was using a mid-market personal pension. Nurture recommended that because  Mr A was 
investing in Harlequin that he should  use the remaining funds to dilute the risk associated  
with Harlequin. 
Nurture said that a SIPP was suitable  for Mr A because:
He wanted  to buy a Harlequin property.
He wished to actively manage some  of his pension funds up to retirement.
He wanted  to adopt their investment process  for the residual fund.
He wanted  to receive ongoing retirement advice.
Mr A agreed with the Harlequin selling agent  for part of the commission payments to be paid 
to Mr A, if he bought  a unit with Harlequin. Mr A has confirmed to us that he approached the 
selling agent directly to arrange a second investment in Harlequin and received another  
payment for that unit. His representative told us he received payments of £2,000 and £3,500.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. She spoke with Mr A. During that call he 
described his position  as vulnerable and that he had become greedy when he bought the 
second Harlequin unit. 
Ref: DRN42577035Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint,  saying:
-Nurture ought to have assessed  the suitability of the proposed investment in 
Harlequin as well as the SIPP. 
-Nurture would have  needed to show that transferring the benefits from his defined  
benefit scheme was to the benefit  of Mr A.
-As a result  of the transfer  out from the scheme, Mr A forfeited valuable benefits. 
-Mr A was recorded as having an attitude to risk of 7 on a scale of 1  10. She 
considered his ability to tolerate such a high level of risk had been  overstated. The 
attitude to risk had been incorrectly categorised.
-However, she thought  Mr A would have transferred his benefits and invested in 
Harlequin anyway.  Mr A was unemployed and not receiving regular income.  The 
benefit of securing  the deal with the selling agent  was important for Mr A as it eased 
his cash flow problems at that time. 
Mr As representatives asked for the case to be referred  to an ombudsman.  They  said other 
Harlequin investors were  offered similar  incentives.  And it is human nature for people  to be 
attracted by such incentives, particularly when presented by such  enthusiastic  salesmen 
and women. 
Nurture did not add anything further. 
Another adjudicator  spoke  with Mr A and I have  listened to a recording of that call. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and codes  of practice; and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time.
What was Nurture required  to do?
Nurture was required to comply with the regulations. It gave advice to Mr A. That means 
Nurture had to know its client and give suitable  advice. It was also required to act in its 
clients best interest. I dont think Nurture can avoid these obligations by limiting  its role to 
only advising  on the SIPP.
Nurture did give advice about  transferring  out of a final salary pension  scheme.  The rules 
required the adviser to assume that the transfer would not be suitable. There is no evidence  
that this requirement  was taken into account.
What did Nurture do?
Nurture said that it only provided advice on the SIPP and did not give advice on the 
Harlequin Property. Nurture did give advice on transferring to the SIPP and made  a positive  
recommendation to do this. The advice  was that Harlequin represented more risk than was 
appropriate for Mr A. Nurtures  advice  was to invest the remaining funds in safer investments 
to balance out this risk.
Ref: DRN42577036Nurture said Mr A had already decided  to invest in Harlequin. However  the contracts could 
not be signed until after the SIPP was established. Nurture  was required to give suitable 
advice. That includes the advice to transfer out of the final salary scheme and advice about  
the investment.  The investment growth achieved in the SIPP  is important. To match the 
benefits being given up a growth rate of over 8% a year was required until age 60. Nurture 
should have considered whether the investment was suitable and could achieve that rate of 
growth. 
What should Nurture have done?
The rules  required Nurture to start by assuming that transferring Mr As final salary pension 
was unsuitable.  It provided a virtually guaranteed pension. It was all of Mr As pension 
benefits. He had no other investments or savings. He could not afford to take risks with this 
pension.
The investment in Harlequin  Property exposed Mr As pension  funds  to significant risk. It was 
an overseas property development. Mr A was buying a hotel room  in a property that had not 
been built. The funds  were used to pay a 30% deposit on the property. This was owned  by 
the SIPP. The balance  of 70% was to be paid on completion of the property.
I am satisfied that the advice to transfer  to the SIPP was unsuitable.  The pension benefits  
were the only asset Mr A had. He was giving  up a valuable guaranteed income in retirement. 
Mr A would be relying on this to provide  him with an income. I think that Nurture  should have 
advised Mr A against transferring to the SIPP; and also advised  him not to invest  in 
Harlequin.
What would Mr A have done?
A reservation fee was due to be paid for the property before Mr A was referred to Nurture.  I 
havent seen any evidence that this was paid. Given Mr As financial position I think its 
unlikely this was paid.
Nurture was a firm regulated to give financial advice and I think  Mr A would have given that 
some weight. If suitable advice had been  given that would have been not to transfer. Mr A 
was using all of his pension that was virtually guaranteed. 
Mr A went  on to buy a second  Harlequin  property. Nurture didnt know about  this and it went 
against Nurtures advice  to invest cautiously to offset the risk of the Harlequin property that 
Nurture did know was to be bought using funds  in the SIPP. 
Mr A received a payment  from the Harlequin  sales agent for each of the Harlequin 
properties. He was in financial difficulty at the time. I have to think  about whether he would 
have transferred his pension  if Nurture  had advised  him not to do so. In reaching that 
decision I have to take account  of the fact that Mr A was not given an explanation about the 
risks involved. And Nurture  gave  a positive recommendation to transfer. Set against that are 
the payments  Mr A received when he was in financial difficulty. Nurture  also argues that 
Mr A was a friend of the Harlequin agent.
Ref: DRN42577037I have reviewed all of the evidence, including listening to the latest conversation  our 
adjudicator had with Mr A. Clearly, Mr A was in a difficult financial position.  He used the 
money he received  from the Harlequin  agent  to pay off debts and pay his rent. However, Im 
not satisfied that Mr A could not have  found other ways to pay off his debts.  The payments 
he received were for just over £5,000. But, the transfer value of his pension was over 
£100,000. He was putting all of his pension at risk to deal with a short  term problem. 
The initial report given to Mr A about the transfer  of his defined  pension benefits quoted a 
critical yield of 3.3%. But that was wrong. It was based  upon a transfer to a lower charging 
pension. A transfer  value  analysis was completed  showing a critical yield of over 8% a year 
was required to match the benefits  being  given up at age 60. Although Mr A didnt intend  to 
retire until 65 he could  take the benefits  without penalty at age 60. The critical yield was an 
indication that this provided better benefits  for him.
The pension benefits were the only asset  Mr A had. Transferring these to a SIPP  
represented a high degree  of risk for him. And investing half of the transfer in Harlequin  
exposed those assets to even more  risk. I think the benefits of investing  in Harlequin had 
been sold to him by the Harlequin  agent. Nurture should have pointed out the risks. Instead  
they gave no advice on Harlequin.
As I said earlier the Harlequin investment  contained a number of risks.  I think  if Mr A had 
been warned about these risks he would  have considered the position carefully. I also think 
that Nurture should have advised  him against the transfer; and also advised him against  
investing in Harlequin. This is very different to what I am sure was the positive approach  
taken by the Harlequin agent.
Taking all of these factors  into account  I think Mr A would  not have transferred his pension.
What loss did the advice given by Nurture cause Mr A?
Nurtures advice was to transfer Mr As pension benefits to a SIPP. It knew  the first 
investment in Harlequin was to be made and advised Mr A to invest  the balance  of the funds 
more cautiously.  I think  that advice was unsuitable and that Mr A should  have been advised 
to keep his deferred pension benefits.  And I think  Mr A would  have accepted that advice.
However, Mr A bought  a second Harlequin property. This was without the knowledge of 
Nurture and against  its advice to invest those funds  more  cautiously. Mr A indicated that he 
became a bit greedy with the second  purchase.  In my view, Nurture shouldnt be liable for 
the losses caused by the second Harlequin property. Although that loss wouldnt have 
happened if Nurture had given suitable advice I consider that the link to the unsuitable  
advice was broken.
The role of other parties in the transactions
Mr A has said he was referred to Nurture for advice on his pensions.  Nurture  has said that 
Mr A had already  received advice and decided to invest in Harlequin  before he received 
advice from Nurture. The third party introduced Mr A to Nurture  and was acting as an agent 
of Harlequin. They  were not regulated  to give financial advice. Nurture  was a firm regulated  
to give advice. Suitable advice should have been  not to transfer. So I think Nurture is 
responsible for the losses.
Ref: DRN42577038But the third party played some part in the decision to invest in Harlequin. If Nurture wishes  
to claim some of the losses  from any other party it may take an assignment  of any rights of 
action Mr A has against them. That is, if it pays Mr As losses  in full.
Should Nurture pay compensation?
Im aware that a party  involved with Harlequin has been charged with fraud offences. A court 
might therefore conclude that Mr As loss didnt flow directly  from Nurtures unsuitable 
advice. And on this basis, a court might  not require Nurture  to compensate  Mr A  
notwithstanding the clearly unsuitable advice.
But in assessing fair compensation, Im not limited  to the position  a court might take. It may 
be there has been a break in the chain of causation. That might  mean  it wouldnt be fair to 
say that all of the losses suffered flowed from the unsuitable advice. That will depend  on the 
particular circumstances  of the case.  No liability will arise for an adviser who has given 
suitable advice;  even if fraud later takes place.  But the position is different where the 
consumer wouldnt have  been in the investment  in the first place without the unsuitable 
advice. In that situation, it may be fair to assess compensation on our usual basis   aiming  
to put Mr A in the position he would  have been in if hed been given suitable  advice.
I think it would be fair and reasonable to make  an award, given the specific  circumstances of 
this case. This is notwithstanding arguments about a break in the chain of causation  and 
the remoteness of the loss from the (poor)  advice given. I am satisfied that Mr A would  not 
have bought the Harlequin Properties had it not been for the failings of Nurtures adviser. If 
the adviser had given  Mr A suitable  advice,  the investments in Harlequin  would not have 
been made. And I consider  that the advice given by the adviser completely disregarded 
Mr As interests. As a direct result  of Nurtures failure to give suitable advice, Mr A invested 
pension into a specialised, unregulated  investment with a limited track record.
So I think that its fair and reasonable to hold Nurture responsible  for some  of the loss 
suffered by Mr A. I am not asking Nurture to account for loss that goes beyond  the 
consequences of its failings. I am satisfied those failings have caused  the loss in question. 
That other parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter,  which  I 
am not able to determine. However, that fact should  not impact  on Mr As right to 
compensation from Nurture for his loss.
Did Mr As actions  contribute  to the loss?
However, I do think it would be unfair  to ask Nurture to compensate Mr A for the loss he 
suffered as a result  of buying the second Harlequin property. Thats  because  they had 
advised him to invest in more cautious  assets to balance the risk of the Harlequin property. 
In my view, that did break the chain of causation for the loss caused by Nurture.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr A as close to the position he would  now be in if he had been  given 
suitable advice.  I think that he would have  kept his final salary  benefits. 
Ref: DRN42577039what should Nurture do?
My aim is to put Mr A in the position  he would now be in if he had received suitable advice. I 
think that he would have:  
a)kept his existing pension; 
b)wouldnt have bought the first Harlequin  property  or invested  in the funds Nurture 
recommended; but 
c)wouldnt have received the payment of £2,000  from the sale of the first Harlequin 
property;
d)the loss from the second Harlequin  property  was not caused  by Nurtures advice.  
In setting out how to calculate  fair compensation my objective is to address these four 
issues. That is what Im trying to achieve.
There are a number of possibilities and unknown factors in making an award.  While I 
understand Harlequin could allow Nurture to take over the investment from Mr A that is now 
unlikely.
All the variables may have an impact  on the extent of any award I may make. The facts  
suggest its unlikely  that the property will be completed and unlikely  that the contract  and any 
future payments would be enforceable. While  its complicated to put Mr A back  in the 
position he would have been in if Nurture had acted in his interests,  I think its fair that Mr A 
is compensated now. I dont  think I should wait and determine each and every  possibility  
before making  an award. What is set out below is a fair way of achieving this.
Nurture should  calculate fair compensation by comparing the value of Mr As pension 
benefits, if he had not transferred, with the current value of his SIPP. In summary:
1.For the final salary scheme;  review  this transfer  in line with the methodology 
issued by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
2.Pay a commercial value to buy Mr As first Harlequin Property.
3.Obtain the transfer value  of Mr As SIPP  on the date of calculation, including  
any outstanding  charges. This value should take account of any payment 
made for the Harlequin property in 2. The value should also be adjusted  to 
allow for the value  of the investment that Nurture  actually advised Mr A to 
make. That is if he had followed that part of the advice
4.Deduct the payment  of £2,000 Mr A received for the sale of the first Harlequin 
property.
Ref: DRN425770310I have explained how Nurture should  carry this out in further detail below.
1.For the final salary scheme;  review  this transfer  in line with the methodology 
issued by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  carried out as at the date of my final decision; using the most 
recent financial assumptions published (at the date of that decision). This should be 
undertaken or submitted  to an appropriate  provider promptly following receipt of notification 
of Mr As acceptance of the decision.
Nurture may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr As contribution history  to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details  should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme on 
Mr As SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the review calculation demonstrates  a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mr As pension plan.  The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr A as a lump sum. Had it been possible to pay the compensation 
into the plan, it would  have provided a taxable income.  Therefore  the compensation may be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr As marginal rate of tax in retirement. 
Mr A is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement. The notional allowance should equate 
to a reduction in the total amount equivalent  to the current  basic  rate of tax. However, as 
Mr A would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional  allowance  should  be 
applied to 75% of the total amount.
Simple interest should be added at the rate of 8% a year from the date of my decision until 
the date of payment. Income  tax may be payable  on this interest.
2.Pay a commercial value to buy Mr As first Harlequin Property.
The valuation of the Harlequin investment may prove difficult, as there is no market  for it. 
To calculate the compensation, Nurture should  agree  an amount with the SIPP provider as 
a commercial value; and then pay the sum agreed plus any costs and take ownership of 
the investment.
If Nurture is unable  to buy the investment, Nurture should give it a nil value for the 
purposes of calculating compensation (including in step 1 above).
Ref: DRN4257703113.Obtain the transfer value  of Mr As SIPP  on the date of calculation, including  
any outstanding  charges. This value should take account of any payment 
made for the Harlequin property in 2. The value should also be adjusted  to 
allow for the value  of the investment that Nurture  actually advised Mr A to 
make. That is if he had followed that part of the advice
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP provider. However, if Mr A had followed Nurtures  
advice he would have  a different value. Part of the fund would have been invested in other  
assets. I think this would almost certainly  be a higher value.  So, Nurture should  use the 
value of the SIPP, if Mr A had followed  their advice. 
Nurture will need to explain how the investment  they recommended would have  performed.  
An explanation of this will need to be included with their calculations.
4.Deduct the payment  of £2,000 Mr A received for the sale of the first Harlequin 
property.
Mr A wouldnt have  received a payment  from the Harlequin agent. He has benefitted from 
this payment. It should therefore be deducted from the loss.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold the complaint. Nurture should  calculate the loss Mr A has suffered and pay 
redress as set out above.
Ref: DRN4257703