K820x#14complaint
Miss W disputes  the outstanding balance on her account with Express  Gifts Ltd (trading as 
Studio). She says that Studio has not reimbursed her for goods  which  she returned to it. 
background
Miss W said:
She used her Studio account in October  2014  to acquire goods that she 
subsequently returned 
She moved home  in November 2016,  and made Studio aware of her change of 
address 
She also told Studio that her account had not been corrected for the October  2014  
goods which she had returned 
Studio  sent her a form to complete with evidence  that the goods had been  returned
The goods were  collected from her  she asked the driver for a document to confirm 
that she had returned  the goods,  but this was not provided
She returned the form sent to her by Studio, explaining that it had organised the 
collection, and that she did not have any evidence of this transaction
Miss W complained to Studio in July 2018.  Her outstanding balance at that time was just 
over £125.  Studio said in response that it was unable to uphold her complaint. It also said 
that her account had been passed  to a debt collection  agency  in March 2017.
Miss W then referred her complaint to us. Studio provided to us documents  relating to her 
account, and told us:
It was unable to find evidence in its records of a collection being requested
It sent Miss W a form to complete, but this was not returned  and Miss W did not 
supply evidence of the goods  being returned 
Our investigator said that it was not unreasonable for Studio  to request evidence of goods 
being returned. And, without this evidence, he did not think  the complaint should be upheld.
Miss W disagreed with our investigator. She questioned the completeness  of Studios 
records, and said it was unreasonable to expect her to pay for goods  that she had returned. 
She added that she was also unhappy that Studio had closed her account, and had not 
contacted her for well over two years.
And so this complaint was referred  for review  by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN49560862my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Studios customer log shows that the contact made before November 2016 (when Miss W 
told it that her account had not been  corrected for the October  2014 goods  which  she had 
returned) was in August 2015. And the next action  was in March 2017  (when  it passed  her 
account to a debt collection agency).  
So I can understand Miss Ws unhappiness about the lack of contact by Studio about her 
outstanding balance. But this balance is modest,  and I agree  with our investigator that it was 
not unreasonable for Studio to request evidence of goods being returned. 
On the one hand, Miss W says that Studio arranged for these goods  to be collected,  and that 
she returned the form it sent to her. On the other  hand, Studio says it has no record either of 
a collection being  requested, or of the form being returned.
It is possible that Studio has lost or failed to make both records, But, in the circumstances,  I 
consider it is more likely  that the goods  were  not collected. And so I find that I have come to 
the same  conclusion as our investigator, for similar  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February  2019.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4956086