K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a fee-paying Advance 
account, which was sold to him on 2 March 2013.
Mr W says no specific  details of the account were  explained to him. For example, he says he 
wasnt made aware of the monthly  cost of the account; wasnt aware of the benefits of the 
account; and wasnt advised of an alternative fee-free account or of a cooling off period.  Mr 
W says he was given  a welcome pack but says its difficult for him to understand it due to his 
dyslexia.
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and she didnt  think the Advance  account 
had been mis-sold. Mr Ws representative  disagreed and asked for an ombudsman  to review  
the complaint.
Mr W has also complained about experiencing financial difficulties whilst having  the account. 
However, as that aspect  of his complaint is being looked into under a separate  complaint,  I 
will only address Mr Ws complaint  about the mis-sale of his Advance  account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  our approach to complaints about packaged bank  accounts  on our website  
and Ive used  that to help me decide  this case.
In his complaint  letter  to HSBC, Mr W says that he does not remember agreeing to the 
Advance account. However, HSBC has provided  a declaration form signed  by Mr W 
agreeing to the Advance account on 2 March  2013. Therefore, I am satisfied that he did 
agree to it. Mr W has also said that he was not offered an alternative fee-free account.  But 
as his account was a fee-free account at the time of the sale, he was clearly aware that fee-
free accounts were  available. Therefore, when he agreed to it, I think Mr W did so knowing 
he didnt have to agree to the Advance account  if he didnt want  to and that he couldve 
instead continued with his existing  account.
Mr W says the account was recommended to him. Whereas HSBC says that it was sold 
without advice being given. Having considered what both parties have  said,  I think  it was 
more likely sold on a non-advised basis. I say this as there  is nothing  to suggest that HSBC 
reviewed Mr Ws circumstances at the time or made a personalised recommendation for him 
to upgrade to the Advance account because  it met a certain  need.  
This means  HSBC didnt  have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to give him the 
important information  about the account  and associated benefits so that he could  decide  for 
himself whether to upgrade.
Ref: DRN43444332Mr W says that he wasnt  told about the monthly  cost, what the benefits were  or that there  
was a cooling off period.  HSBC on the other hand says that all of this information wouldve 
been discussed with Mr W prior to him signing the declaration form. It also says that as the 
declaration form had been ticked next to the various benefits, this shows that they were  
discussed with him.
Having carefully considered the competing arguments on this point, I struggle to see why Mr 
W wouldve  agreed to change his account   and sign a form confirming he wanted to change  
his account  if he was given no information  about it other than being  told it would be good 
value for money.  Im also mindful that Mr W initially said in his complaint letter  to HSBC that 
he did not remember agreeing to the account.  This leads me to think  that Mr W just doesnt 
remember what was discussed  during  the sale of his account  which I think  is completely  
understandable given  that it took place over 7 years  ago.
Nevertheless, the declaration form that Mr W signed suggests that the account benefits were 
discussed with him. In our questionnaire,  Mr W says he regularly travels abroad.  And I note 
that shortly after agreeing  to the account  Mr W travelled abroad.  I can see the adjudicator 
referred to this and Mr Ws representative  said the adjudicator had made assumptions.  
However, given that Mr W had agreed  to a product that provided travel  insurance and fee-
free cash  withdrawals abroad - shortly before travelling abroad - I think  its likely that he 
agreed to upgrade his account as he was told about the features of the account and was 
attracted to them. 
Mr W says that he was given a welcome pack during the sale of his account, however he 
says he had difficulties  understanding it due to his dyslexia. Although  Mr W mayve found it 
difficult to understand  the contents of the welcome  pack, I see no reason why he couldnt  
have asked HSBC  to clarify anything he wasnt sure about, when he was in branch. 
HSBC has provided  evidence that Mr W had an account review  around a year after 
upgrading his account which indicated he was still happy with his account.  Although  I dont 
know what exactly was said, it seems he was given opportunities,  both during the sale and 
later, to question HSBC  about his Advance account if he wasnt sure about  anything.
I accept its possible that HSBC may not have given  Mr W all of the important information 
about the account during  the sale that it shouldve.  But Ive not seen anything  that makes  me 
think Mr W wouldve  been put off from agreeing  to the account, had he been given even 
more information  about it. 
Therefore, overall,  Im unable to say that the Advance account was mis-sold. And whilst I 
appreciate that Mr W may now think that the account  has been poor value for money, or 
perhaps simply forgot what benefits  he had with his account, neither of these points mean 
that HSBC was wrong or acting unfairly to have  sold him the Advance account when it did.
I therefore think it would be inappropriate to require HSBC to refund the fees that Mr W has 
paid over the years for the Advance account. 
Ref: DRN43444333my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4344433