K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (s.75) in relation to a solar panel  
system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr M is represented  by a claims management  company (the CMC).
background
In or around February 2015,  Mr M was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar  panel  system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited  by a representative  of P, Mr M decided to purchase  the system  and 
finance it by way of a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement  with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In August  2016  the CMC made a claim on Mr Ms behalf  under s.75 to Shawbrook. The 
CMC said that, following  a cold call, P had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr M to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system including VAT had been documented as £10,995  to mislead  
Mr M  this figure  did not include any interest associated with the loan, so the true cost 
was £21,760.20;
Mr M was promised a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £992.11 and this didnt take into account 
that after making his loan repayments Mr M had an actual  annual  deficit of £1,021.94;
the credit agreement would  be self-funded by the Feed-in Tariff (FIT) payments alone;
the system would not cost him a penny; and,
he would make savings on his electricity bills.
The CMC also raised  concerns under  section  140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  
(s.140A). It said there was an unfair  relationship between Mr M and Shawbrook due to the 
misleading representations made about  the systems expected performance.
On making the s.75 claim to Shawbrook, the CMC provided; a copy of a non-compliance 
hearing from the Renewable Energy  Consumer Code (RECC)  dated December
2013, copies of marketing material used by P, a job advert for P, the loan agreement with 
Shawbrook and some  of Mr Ms electricity bills.
In its final response letter  Shawbrook said, having reviewed the information  it held on file, as 
well as information provided by P, that it didnt  agree  the system had been misrepresented  to 
Mr M or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.  In summary, it said:
the contract  P had provided Mr M set out the expected total returns from the system and 
this, alongside  the finance  agreement,  made it clear that the system was not self-
funding immediately  and that there would be a cost involved;
the contract  with P showed  that the expected  annual return in year one was £1,069.54, 
whereas the loan agreement repayments were  £120.89 a month, or £1,450.68 over the 
year, so there would be a shortfall  between the expected benefits and the loan repayments;
the performance  of the system and any deterioration are set out in the contract;
Ref: DRN47399442the system wouldnt increase Mr Ms electricity  consumption, and any increase in his 
electricity bills would be due to a change in lifestyle;
Shawbrook didnt  pay any commission  to P for introducing Mr M to it.
Unhappy with this response,  the CMC  referred the complaint to this service.  One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered  all the information  and 
evidence provided  our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented the system to Mr 
M and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators  view. In summary,  it said:
Mr M didnt receive any point of sale documentation; and
They agree that Mr M signed the quote  but he did not have sufficient time to digest the 
document before he signed it.
It also suggested that we speak to Mr M for his recollections. When  our investigator spoke
to Mr M, he told us:
that funds were  tight at the point of sale due to recently having a baby
P told him that the loan was interest  free;
the system would produce £1,800 and the finance was £120  a month so they would 
be self-funding;
he saw the quote on the tablet and the sales representative told him to sign so it would go 
to the next page. He didnt read the document and didnt think he was agreeing to anything;
the panels are shaded  so dont generate any energy in winter; and
he felt pressured to take out the panels  on that day as the offer was running out.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a fresh review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator  and Ill explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes  section  56 and section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section  75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using 
credit. It states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c) has, 
in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against  the supplier in the 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against  the 
creditor, who, with the supplier,  shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
Ref: DRN47399443As Mr M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that s.75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr M could claim against Shawbrook,  the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken s.75 into account when deciding  what is fair in 
the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations  between Mr M and 
P, as the supplier,  are deemed to have  been  conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision  Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made  by one party (or his agent) to a second party which  induces 
that second party to enter  the contract, thereby  causing them  loss.
Section 140A is also relevant.  This states:
(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit  agreement 
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising  out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement)  is unfair  to the debtor  
because of one or more  of the following:
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights under
the agreement  or any related agreement;
(c) any other  thing  done (or not done)  by, or on behalf of, the creditor  (either before
or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks  relevant (including  matters relating to the creditor  and matters
relating to the debtor).
So, Ive considered whether a court might find that there existed an unfair relationship.
Mr Ms recollection of the sale
Ive listened to the call that Mr M had with our investigator and considered  this along with the 
complaint the CMC  submitted  to Shawbrook. Ive noted that Mr Ms recollections  do differ in 
some respects to the complaint letter  submitted by the CMC. As an example,  in the 
complaint letter the CMC refers to Mr M being  promised  a year 1 benefit of £992.11, 
whereas Mr M told us that he believed hed receive  £1,800 each year.
Having said that, there  are some similarities between the complaint submitted by the CMC
and Mr Ms recollection of the sale, for example that the system would be self-funding.
Mr M has decided  to be represented, by a CMC, in his complaint to Shawbrook. The 
complaint letter submitted  to Shawbrook was six pages in length and set out in great
detail the reasons for the s.75 claim and the alleged representations that were  made
that induced Mr M to enter into the contract.
The complaint letter is dated November 2016,  approximately 21 months  after the date of 
sale, and I would expect  this to reflect Mr Ms recollection of what  happened at the time the 
system was sold.
Ref: DRN47399444Whilst I appreciate Mr M has spoken to our investigator and provided additional information 
that wasnt included  in the initial complaint made on his behalf, there is a significant  time 
difference between  the date the complaint  was made and the conversation with our 
investigator. I think this may explain the inconsistencies I have highlighted above. I
think that its reasonable to expect the CMCs letter to accurately reflect what Mr M says he 
was told and his version  of events at the time of sale, especially as the CMC has put the 
alleged representations in quotation  marks. So, insofar as there are any discrepancies that 
have a material impact on my decision,  Ive placed  more weight on the submissions made  in 
the original letter of complaint. Having said that, Im satisfied that Mr M was told that the
system would be self-financing over the term of the loan.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and Mr Ms solar quote, titled Your  Personal Solar  
Quotation. Ive considered these in detail and whether they support  the alleged  
representations made  by P.
The quote  is a detailed document that sets out key information  about the system,  the
expected performance, financial benefits  and technical information. Im satisfied that it
formed a central part of the sales  process  and is therefore relevant when considering  if there
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside  Mr Ms recollection of the sale.
In response to the investigators assessment, the CMC  told us that Mr M didnt  receive the 
quote. Shawbrook  have provided detailed  information explaining Ps sale processes. This 
detailed that Ps sales practice was for the quotation  to be sent to the consumers shortly  after 
the initial meeting  via email. Based on our experience of what we have seen with similar 
complaints, Im satisfied  that, on the balance of probabilities, P would have sent this document 
to Mr M and I have no reason to doubt thats  what happened in this complaint. I also note that 
Mr M has signed the quotation,  so I think its clear hes seen the contents of the document.
The credit agreement, which was also provided by the CMC at the time the original 
complaint was made, sets out the amount being  borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual  monthly repayments.
Ill now consider each of the alleged representations made as set out above.
The FIT payments
Mr M has alleged that he was told his monthly  loan repayments would be covered, or
self-funded by his FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided  by P and
considered whether this supports what he says he was told as I consider the quote was
central to the sales presentation.
Page eight of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr M could expect to receive by way 
of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into two tables. The first shows the 
expected FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income  
over 20 years. My understanding  is that the system  would only receive  FIT payments for 20 
years and this is why 20 years has been  used in the quote.
Ref: DRN47399445I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Mr M could expect to receive a 
total income in year one of £442.76 from his FIT.
Page 8 of the quote goes  on to look at the electricity savings  Mr M could expect from his 
system as well as any savings he would make  from taking out any optional  extras  including a 
voltage optimiser and an OWL heating control.  The expected  year one electricity savings is
£211.92 and the combined  income  and savings in year one is shown as £1,069.54. This is 
shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
The following  page, so page nine, has a section  titled  Repayments. This has three  tables set out 
over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months.  The table for 180 months is highlighted in orange 
as this is the length of the loan that Mr M entered into with Shawbrook.  This table sets out that 
there are 180 monthly  payments of £118.91 due and compares the overall expected grand total 
from the system, averaged over a monthly basis, versus the expected loan repayments.
 
I think the quote clearly  sets out the income  Mr M could expect to receive from the system,  
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual  monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept  that the table doesnt  simply compare his FIT income  to his monthly loan 
repayments, it does  clearly set out that the overall income  he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover  his 
monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that he was told that his monthly  loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income  alone.
Total cost of the system  and expected benefits
Mr M has said that the cost of the system was documented as £10,995. He has said that this 
was done to mislead him as this figure  did not include any interest associated with the loan 
so hid the true cost of the system, £21,760.20.
Im satisfied that the quote provided  to Mr M makes it clear that the cost of the system is 
£10,995. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the total amount of 
credit is £10,995 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £21,760.20.
And as the quote provided  by P is clear  that there would  be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table above,  Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote  and the credit  
agreement, made it clear  that although the cost of the system  was £10,995, it would cost Mr 
M more than this as he had decided to pay for it with a fixed sum loan.
Ill now consider whether  P told Mr M that the system  would not cost him a penny, and
that he could expect to receive a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £992.11.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system  versus
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing
the two.  Im  satisfied that the table shows that in the first year Mr M was expected to have 
made a loss of £29.78 a month and in the second year this would decrease  to a loss of 
£24.37 a month. It wouldnt  be until the third year that the expected  benefits would exceed  
his monthly loan repayments, and, by my calculation, it wouldnt have been until around  year 
five that he would have sufficiently recouped any previous  annual  losses and the system 
would be paying  for itself.
Ref: DRN47399446Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system  wouldnt  be self-funding from the start,  
and Im unable to conclude that Mr M was told that the system  would  not cost him a penny. 
I think the quote is clear  that there  would be a difference  between  his expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
In addition to this, page five of the quote  has a graph  illustrating the difference between  the
expected income  and loan repayments:
Again, Im unable to conclude that the system would  not cost him a penny  as the graph, in 
my view, clearly illustrates the expected shortfall  between the expected income compared to 
the monthly loan repayments.
I do accept that Mr M was told that hed receive a year one benefit  of £992.11 as this was 
the expected combined income  from FIT payments and electricity savings on his energy 
bills. Having  said that, taking into account the available evidence,  Im not persuaded that
Mr M was led to believe that hed receive this sum in his hand.  Im satisfied that the quote
makes it clear that hed have to make loan repayments and overall there  would be a deficit.
I also accept that Mr M was told by P that the system would pay for itself over the term of
the loan. Page 11 of the quote has a table headed Estimated performance over 20 years:
This shows that by year 14 the overall benefits  that Mr M could  expect to receive  would have 
exceeded the total amount payable under  his loan agreement. This table also sets out
the panel degradation  rate so Im satisfied that P made him aware  that performance of the
system would deteriorate over its lifetime.  The quote document also refers to any warranty
associated with the system or the inverter.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr M that the system would pay for itself by
year 14, as supported by the table above.  If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im
satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance  of the system and whether this is in line with the
contract between P and Mr M. The quote  sets out that the system is expected to produce
2,722.16 kWh a year and this in turn would generate the income by way of FIT payments
and savings in his energy bills, that Mr M could expect to receive.
Between August 2015 and 2016, the system  generated a total of 2,983.86 kWh.  This is 
higher than the estimated  generation provided in the quote, so Im satisfied  that the system 
is performing in line with, or in excess of, the quote.
So, based  on this, I would  expect Mr M to be close to recouping  any initial  losses  from the 
system and for it to be paying  for itself. Mr M has said that this isnt the case  so Ive gone on 
to consider whether P have overstated the potential  income and savings Mr M could expect 
to receive by, for example  using unreasonable assumptions.
Ref: DRN47399447The quote  P provided to Mr M was personalised to his specific  circumstances and used a 
number of underlying assumptions to calculate  the income and benefits he could expect to 
receive over the systems lifetime. The assumptions used included the expected annual 
generation in kWh from the system, the amount of energy  generated by the system that Mr 
M would use rather than buying it from his energy  provider, therefore leading  to savings on 
his energy bills and the expected increase in utility  prices alongside the expected  annual  
increase in RPI inflation. The expected increase in utility prices and RPI were  based
on the Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2004  and 2013.
As set out above, Im satisfied that the system  is performing in line with the figure provided in 
the quote and therefore Im able to conclude, as supported by the FIT statements provided, 
that the FIT payments received are also in line with the figures provided in the quote.
The quote  sets out that Mr M was expected to use, or self-consume,  50% of the kWh 
generated by the system  each year. This in turn would lead to a first years annual  saving of 
£211.92. This amount of saving would  increase  each year in line with the ONS data Ive
mentioned above.
When setting the percentage of electricity that a consumer would be paid for exporting  to the 
National Grid the Government set a rate of 50%. This implies that a consumer would self-
consume or use the remaining 50%.  It is my view that a self-consumption rate of 50%, the 
amount Mr M could save on his electricity  bills, would be fair basis for calculating the 
benefits of a particular system.
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied  that the estimates for the expected generation 
by the system and the percentage of energy  that Mr M was expected  to self-consume were 
both reasonable  assumptions for P to have  made.
When estimating the future income  and electricity savings that Mr M could expect to receive 
from the system, P estimated that both energy prices and RPI would increase in line with the 
available information  from the ONS. The figure  used for energy price increases was 8.42% 
and for RPI was 2.92%.  Ive considered the available information from the ONS from 2015 to 
2020 to see whether both energy prices and RPI have increased  in line with the estimates  
provided by P. The data from the ONS suggests  that energy prices  have  increased  by 3.7% 
and RPI by 2.56%. Both of these figures are lower than the assumptions  used by P and in 
my view explain why he isnt receiving  the financial returns  from the system that he may 
have expected.
The assumptions used  by P, as set out above, were based on the available information from 
the ONS  from 2004 to 2013. Therefore, I dont  think it was unreasonable for P to have used 
these assumptions to calculate  the expected financial returns  from the system.  Im of the 
view that this goes  some way to explaining why the system may not be self-funding  by year 
14 and certainly by the end of the loan term. Although I appreciate  Mr M will be disappointed 
by the financial  returns from his system, Im satisfied that this isnt due to P using 
unreasonable assumptions  when he entered into the contract for the system.
s.140A
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under s.140A  the Act.
Ref: DRN47399448A sufficient  inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed 
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent  found any misrepresentation 
and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions  used by P were reasonable, I think a 
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair  relationship under  s.140.
Further considerations
In response to our investigators view, the CMC said that all the evidence it had provided
hadnt been taken into consideration. This included the marketing literature used by P along
with the findings of the Renewable Energy  Consumer Code (RECC) non-compliance panel
hearing from December  2013.
Ive noted that the marketing literature the CMC has provided has been supplied on all the 
complaints it has submitted to us about  P and isnt dated. Therefore, I cant conclude that 
this was provided to Mr M, or that it relates  to the time his panels were  sold.  Whilst it does 
refer to the system  paying for itself and being  self-funding, Im not persuaded I can place as 
much weight on this, especially when considered along with Mr Ms personalised quote. And, 
as I have explained above,  at the time Mr M entered into the contract  with P Im satisfied that 
his system would have  been self-funding and pay for itself by year 14 of the loan.
The RECC non-compliance panel findings are from December 2013,  almost  two years  
before Mr M entered into his contract  with P. Shawbrook has also provided information from 
Trading Standards, setting out that it had been working with P since the findings to improve  
Ps sales process. This work  included  Trading Standards helping P to enhance  their 
business paperwork and documentation to ensure compliance with the relevant legislation.  
This has ultimately led to P receiving Primary Authority Status by the Secretary of State.
So, whilst I accept the RECC  findings  found concerns with Ps sales  practices in 2013, the 
evidence discussed  above indicates that Ps sales process, practices and documentation 
had evolved prior to Miss G entering  into his contract and I have to take account of the 
particular circumstances  of this case,  along  with the wider, contemporaneous evidence.
Mr M raised  some concerns about Ps sales process, said that he was pressured  into 
entering the contract and fixed sum loan agreement.
Based on the available evidence that has been  provided Im of the view that the sales 
process wasnt unreasonably pressured  and taking account of the overall  cost of the system 
alongside the length of the loan term, I dont  think the length of the meeting with P at
Mr Ms home  was unreasonable.
Mr Ms later recollections
As previously explained, Mr M has provided additional information that wasnt included  in the 
initial complaint made on his behalf  and there is a significant time difference  between  the 
date the complaint was made  and his later recollections. And as I think that its reasonable to 
expect the CMCs letter to accurately reflect what Mr M says he was told and his version of 
events at the time of sale, Ive placed  more weight on the submissions made in the original 
letter of complaint.
Ref: DRN47399449Mr M has said that he signed the tablet at the point of sale without reading  the information.  
He thought this was to move it to the next page  rather than agreeing to the terms and 
conditions.
When a consumer signs a document, they have  a responsibility to read and understand what  
theyre signing for. I think its fair and reasonable to expect that Mr M ought to have known 
that he should have read the information before signing the document.
Mr M has said that the system would generate a yearly benefit  of £1,800 and the finance 
was £120 a month so they would  be self-funding.
As explained above, I think  that the quote  is clear that the total estimated benefits in year 
one are £1,069.54  and the monthly  loan repayments are £118.91 - £1,426.92 yearly. 
Therefore, I cant agree  that Mr M was promised a yearly benefit of £1,800. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided  by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were  no untrue statements  of fact made by P that induced Mr M to
enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold  this
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against  Shawbrook Bank Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2021.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4739944