K820x#14complaint
Mr C says he was unaware that HSBC  UK Bank plc had added  contribution  protection cover 
to two of his personal pension plans.
background
Mr C says he didnt request contribution protection for his personal pension  plans which  
were set-up in 1997 and 2000. He says he didnt need it. And he told us he had no 
recollection of the cover  being discussed at the time of the sales.
Mr C explained he was self-employed,  he had a good income  and plenty of savings. Being  in 
his early 20s, he says he wouldnt have been worried about missing a couple of pension  plan 
payments. The most important thing to him wouldve been keeping  his monthly costs down. 
He says after his accountant alerted him to the fees in 2010, he cancelled the cover.
HSBC says Mr C signed  to say he wanted to protect his pension contributions if hed been  
unable to work. It said the cover was appropriate  given  his circumstances.
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. Mr C disagreed  and so his case  has come to me for 
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain 
why.
HSBC says Mr C received pension advice in February 1997 which resulted in a personal  
pension plan being set-up.  His plan was topped-up in 1998. And a further pension plan was 
established in November 2000.
HSBC doesnt  have all the documentation from the time of the respective sales, for example 
I havent seen  any record of the fact finds.  But is has provided  copies of two of Mr Cs 
personal pension  plan applications.
On the application from 1998 I can see theres a tick in the box requesting  contribution 
protection. And theres  another  box ticked to say he wanted the cover for existing and any 
increased pension  contributions.
On the application from 2000 I can see theres a tick box requesting  contribution protection. 
Theres another box ticked to say he wanted  the cover  for existing and any increased 
pension contributions. And theres  an indication of who will pay for the cover.
Mr C told us he hadnt completed any of the information contained in his pension plan 
applications  this was done by a member of HSBC staff. He said hed only signed the 
forms. Hes adamant he wouldnt have selected  the cover.
The events Im considering here happened 20 or so years ago. So, I dont expect  records  to 
be complete or memories  to be perfect. And where  there are different versions of events, my 
decision is based on whats  most likely to have happened.
Ref: DRN43963142I dont doubt when Mr C complained about  the protection he did so because  he couldnt 
remember agreeing  to it being added  at the outset.  But the documents  available  from the 
time of the sales suggest he did opt for cover. And although I accept the forms mayve been 
completed by HSBC, he was signing to say he agreed with what had been recorded.
Further, I can see that Mr C was given  a key features summary when each of his personal 
pension plans was set-up. This shows his monthly pension  contributions  and separately the 
cost of the associated  protection.  If he hadnt wanted the cover at the time,  I think he 
wouldve challenged what was clearly  set out.
So, I think its more likely  than not Mr C opted to buy the contribution  protection  on both 
occasions.
Ive thought about whether the cover was suitable for Mr C. I understand his arguments 
about why he didnt need the cover. For example, he said if he hadnt been  able to work and 
a few payments  had been missed this wouldnt have mattered  too much   he was young at 
the time.  Mr C couldve used his savings to cover his contributions.  And managing outgoings  
wouldve been important  to him.
On the other hand, Mr C was self-employed. And people  in this situation  often  dont have the 
benefit of safety  nets available to employees, such as paid sick leave. If hed been unable to 
work and had missed  payments, given the terms and conditions of his pension plans this 
couldve resulted  in their closure. I think that wouldve mattered to Mr C because it wouldve 
resulted in sunk costs  and a missed opportunity to build his pension  pot.
Mr C says he had savings  which he couldve used to pay his pension contributions if 
necessary. But if hed been unable  to work, I think he mightve  needed to use these to meet 
other costs. And in this situation he couldve relied on the cover  to meet his pension 
payments.
The cost of the protection appears  to have been around 5% of Mr Cs pension contributions 
(which at the time were modest).  In return, and assuming he met the terms and conditions of 
cover, if hed suffered from sickness or incapacity,  HSBC wouldve met his pension  
contributions, either up to his selected retirement  date or until he recovered, whichever 
happened sooner.
So, if unable to work Mr C couldve continued to build up some retirement provision despite 
not having an income. Given  what  Mr Cs told us about his income at the time, I think  the 
costs of the protection were  affordable.  And the benefits potentially useful.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4396314