K821x#15complaint
Miss P complains  that a car she has financed through an agreement with BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited, trading as Alphera,  is not of satisfactory quality.  Shed like to reject it 
and terminate her finance  agreement.
background
Miss P took receipt of a used car in July 2017. She financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with Alphera.  At the point of supply the car had completed 2,600  miles 
and was about six months old.
But Miss P says shes had several issues since taking receipt of this nearly new vehicle. She 
says that:
Its always been difficult  to select reverse gear
the timing belt needed  replacing  in October  2018
the battery discharged in October 2018  and needed replacing
the boot doesnt shut properly
She evidenced the gear selection issue and the problem closing the boot in videos she sent 
to this service.
Alphera didnt  think there was evidence  that the vehicle  was faulty when Miss P took receipt 
of it. They  explained  that the timing chain fault had occurred when the car had covered more 
than 8,000 miles and after more than a year had elapsed. 
So Miss P referred her complaint to this service  and our adjudicator provided her opinion.  
She thought  the car hadnt proven to be suitably durable and she thought the videos 
supplied by Miss P showed the previous repairs had been  unsuccessful.  So it was her view 
that Alphera should allow Miss P to reject the car and terminate her finance agreement;  
refunding her deposit. And she also thought that it was clear Miss P had been 
inconvenienced by this matter so she suggested  Alphera pay her £200 to compensate her 
for this.
But Alphera  didnt agree. They didnt  think  the videos were  conclusive evidence of faults  with 
the car and they thought,  given the passage  of time, that it was only fair Miss P provide 
evidence of her own to show the faults she now referred to were present at the point  of 
supply. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN45207832board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
was the car faulty at the point of supply?
Miss P acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. The relevant law says that the 
car should have  been of satisfactory  quality when supplied. If it wasnt  then Alphera  are 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
But Alpheras responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
Alphera are right to suggest that wed usually  assume that if a car developed a fault in the 
first six months it was likely to have been  there from the point of supply but if it happened 
after that wed usually  look to the consumer  to prove  this was the case. 
The relevant  legislation  also tells us that, when we consider  satisfactory quality, we should  
consider whether the vehicle has proven to be suitably durable. And here I dont think  that 
can be the case.
I think a reasonable  person would expect  a timing chain and a battery  to last much longer 
than Miss Ps did and Ive looked at the video evidence Miss P has provided and Im 
persuaded that there are additional problems that have now surfaced, or were originally 
present. I dont think its fair to suggest  all of these  problems  shouldve presented 
themselves so early  on a nearly new vehicle. Taken together I think they suggest that this 
vehicle hasnt been of satisfactory quality as it hasnt been  suitably  durable.
Miss P has evidently been disadvantaged  by this issue and I think, in the circumstances, the 
adjudicators suggestion  that Alphera  pay her £200  in recognition  of this is a fair one.
In line with this services usual approach they should  also refund any deposit that Miss P 
paid, adding 8% simple interest  per annum to the refund.
Ref: DRN45207833my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this decision and tell BMW Financial Services  
(GB) Limited to:
terminate the finance  agreement with nothing more to pay
collect the car at no cost to Miss P
refund  the deposit (if paid by Miss P herself) and add 8% simple interest per annum 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement
pay Miss P £200 to compensate  her for the distress and inconvenience  shes  
experienced as a result of this issue
remove any adverse information  they may have  reported to Miss Ps credit file in 
relation to this issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4520783