K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank applied charges 
when she used her credit  card to pay money to a travel card.  To settle  matters  shed like 
Tesco Bank to refund  the charges.
background
Miss A used her Tesco Bank credit card several times to top up a travel card. She says 
shed never  previously been  charged to do this and Tesco Bank  didnt notify her that fees 
would be charged.
Tesco Bank didnt  uphold her complaint. It said itd notified her about  the forthcoming  
changes and the fees charged were in accordance  with the revised terms and conditions of 
her account.
Unhappy with Tesco Banks response  Miss A brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt  recommend that Miss As complaint should be upheld. She thought Tesco  
Bank had correctly applied fees because shed used her credit card to pay money to a travel 
card and Tesco Bank had explained that this sort of transaction would now be treated as a 
cash transaction on which it would charge a fee of 3.99%.
She thought  Tesco Bank had notified  her of the forthcoming changes  in a bulk email sent to 
all customers and also because her April 2018 credit card statement referred to the 
forthcoming changes  and asked her to read a leaflet  attached  that explained the 
changes being  made to the terms and conditions.
Miss A disagrees with the investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
She says she never received an email  notifying  her of the changes. In response the 
investigator explained that even  without the email  she thought Tesco  Bank had done enough 
by referring to the forthcoming changes on her April statement.
Miss A also pointed out other customers who complained about not receiving an email  and 
in some cases their charges had been refunded. The explained that we couldnt comment  on 
the other cases because  we have to look at every  complaint individually.
my findings
Ref: DRN40016042Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the outcome 
reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
I can see from Miss As credit card statements that she was charged  a fee when she used 
her Tesco Bank credit  card to pay money to her travel card.  I understand that Miss As travel 
card provider provides  services including pre-paid debit cards, currency  exchange and 
money transfers. Tesco Bank explained  that from 31 May 2018 these sorts of transactions 
would be treated as cash advances  and would incur a fee of 3.99%.
Tesco Bank explained that in April 2018  it notified its customers about  certain  changes  it 
would be making  to the terms and conditions of their credit  card accounts. This was done by 
bulk email and the changes were  due to take effect from 31 May 2018. 
Tesco Bank hasnt  been able to confirm details of the exact  email that was sent to Miss A. 
But it has provided a pro forma of the email sent to customers. I can see that Miss A was 
registered to receive  statements and notifications  by email - and Tesco Bank  provided  a 
screenshot to confirm  that none of the emails it sent to Miss A bounced back. In the 
circumstances I think its more likely than not that Miss A would have received the email 
about the changes to her credit card account.
Ive taken into account that Miss A says she never  received  this email but even without 
receipt of this email  I think Tesco Bank did enough to make  her aware of the forthcoming 
changes. I say this because  I can see that the front page of her April 2018 credit card 
statement said: Please read the enclosed leaflet  which gives  you notice of changes 
made to your Terms and Conditions with effect  from 31 May 2018.
Im satisfied that Tesco Bank was entitled  to make changes to Miss As credit card terms 
and conditions provided it gave 30 days notice of any changes. The leaflet and revised 
terms and conditions attached to her statement were sent just over a month  before the 
changes were due to come into effect  so Im satisfied  Tesco  Bank gave her sufficient notice 
about the forthcoming changes in accordance with the terms and conditions of her account.
Ive also looked  at the terms  and conditions and I think they clearly set out the transactions 
that Tesco Bank would now treat as cash transactions  and to which  a fee of 3.99% would  be 
applied.
For the reasons  Ive explained above Im satisfied that the cash handling fees of 
£107.22 applied  by Tesco  Bank  - when Miss A used her credit card to pay money to 
her travel card from late August 2018  mid September 2018 - were correctly  applied in 
accordance with the revised terms and conditions.  And Im satisfied that Tesco  Bank 
made her aware of the forthcoming changes.
Finally, Im not able to comment  on the other complaints Miss A has drawn to our 
attention for the reasons the investigator  has already explained.
Ref: DRN40016043my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4001604