K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains Lloyds Bank  PLC treated him unfairly in relation to his current and credit 
card accounts. 
background
Mr A had a current account and a credit card account with Lloyds. In late 2017 Lloyds 
changed the charging structure on Mr As current account. Mr A thought the change would 
disadvantage him, so he complained. Lloyds responded with a final response letter dated 
9 November 2017. It didnt uphold Mr As complaint as it thought it was entitled to make 
changes to his current account and had done so fairly. 
Mr A remained unhappy  with the change.  Communication between Mr A and Lloyds 
continued, but an agreement couldnt  be reached. Mr As current  account was closed in late 
2018 and a default was registered with the credit reference agencies.  On 18 November 2018  
Mr A referred a complaint to our service about the change to the charging  structure  and how 
hed been treated.
In early 2019 Lloyds  wrote to Mr A to say as a result  of a change with a commercial partner 
his credit card account would be closed. It also said it wouldnt be able to offer him an 
alternative credit card account. Mr A complained about this and ultimately an ombudsman  at 
our service  issued a final decision.  Her decision was that she thought  Lloyds was entitled  to 
close Mr As credit card account. However, she didnt comment on whether Lloyds should  
have offered him an alternative credit  card account. Mr A later raised concerns with how his 
credit card balance was being  administered. In particular, he was unhappy it had been sold 
to a third party.
An investigator considered Mr As complaint  and set out that in her view there was a 
complaint point our service cant consider. This was because she thought  it had been 
brought to our service too late. Lloyds accepted this. Mr A didnt. The matter was passed to 
me to decide  and I issued a decision setting out what our service  can and cant consider.
Following my decision, the investigator considered the merits of Mr As complaint.  She 
concluded, in summary,  that Lloyds had acted  fairly.  This was because:
-She thought  Lloyds  had tried to help Mr A with his overdraft but as he wasnt  making 
payments to the account it was right for it to consider the account  in default;
-It was reasonable  for Lloyds not to offer Mr A a new credit card account  based on 
what had happened with his current account; 
-Mr A stopped making payments  to his existing credit card account, so it was right for 
Lloyds to consider  the account  in default; and 
-Lloyds had sold Mr As credit card debt to a third party,  and it was entitled to do so. 
Mr A disagreed with the investigator. He felt she hadnt taken all his evidence and arguments 
into account. As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed  to me to 
decide. 
Ref: DRN47210172my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator. Ill explain why. 
I would firstly say Ive summarised Mr As complaint in less detail than he has presented  it. 
And my findings will focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint  and so wont be as 
detailed as he might  like. Neither  of these actions are meant as a discourtesy. Instead, they 
reflect the informal nature  of our service. But I can assure Mr A (and Lloyds) that Ive 
considered the whole file. If I dont mention something, its not because Ive ignored it  I 
havent  its just that I dont think doing  so is necessary to reach a fair outcome  on this 
complaint. 
Im also aware that Mr As view is that he has two complaints here  one about his Lloyds  
current account, and one about his Lloyds credit card account. As I set out in my decision on 
what our service can and cant consider, part of his credit card account complaint has been 
decided on the merits by another ombudsman, so that part wont be considered  again. But 
as also set out in my previous decision,  there are parts I can consider, and I see no reason 
not to do so in this decision. I say this because although the current and credit card accounts 
were separate accounts, theyre  held in the same capacity with the same respondent. And, 
matters arising from the credit card complaint are in some ways linked to the current account  
complaint. To summarise, I will address Mr As complaints  about  his current account  and 
credit card account in this final decision.  For ease, however,  I will address each in turn. 
the current account
Mr A had a current account with Lloyds with an agreed overdraft. Hed had it for many years 
and from his statements  I can see he used  the overdraft facility  regularly. In 2017 Lloyds 
decided to change  the way it charged  for overdraft usage. It wrote to Mr A to let him know. 
Mr A was unhappy with the change, so he complained. I cant comment on whether it was 
fair for Lloyds to change the way it charged  for overdraft usage  because  as I set out in my 
previous decision   Mr A brought this part of the complaint to our service too late. I have, 
however, considered what happened  next.
Lloyds response,  in November 2017, explained  that Mr A would be on a reduced tariff until 
May 2018. This meant he would be charged  1p per day for each £20 he borrowed until 
May 2018, after which it would increase to 1p per day for each £7 he borrowed.  It went on to 
give Mr A options for further assistance, should he need it. I think the reduced tariff and the 
options for assistance were fair things for Lloyds  to offer at this point.   
Mr A continued to use the account  until May 2018  when all payments  (in and out) stopped. 
As the account  was overdrawn, overdraft  fees continued to be applied.  This meant  the 
balance soon exceeded the agreed overdraft limit and continued  to increase. From what Ive 
seen between Lloyds  November 2017  response  and May 2018 Mr A didnt engage  with 
Lloyds in any meaningful way about assistance.  
From May 2018 onwards  Mr A continued to dispute  Lloyds decision  to change the way it 
charged for overdraft usage, rather than seek assistance. I acknowledge Mr As strong 
feeling on the matter and that in his view he did engage with Lloyds.  But in my opinion,  he 
didnt engage  constructively. Rather  than speak  to Lloyds Money Management team, as 
hed been encouraged to do, and which might  have resulted in Lloyds making concessions 
Ref: DRN47210173to help him, he wrote to Lloyds with complaints, unworkable suggestions  and threats, such 
as in his letter of 5 May 2018, where  he said:
I am inviting a member of Lloyds Bank to sit down across the table, in the presence of a 
representative of the Bank Ombudsman and an independent arbiter,  to discuss the situation 
that the Bank has placed me in. In the meantime any attempt to blacken  my name with 
regards to my long-standing credit record, will be met with legal action and Lloyds  Bank will 
be sued.
Further letters were exchanged between May and July 2018,  but an agreement wasnt  
reached, which led to Lloyds  issuing  a formal demand asking Mr A to repay  his overdrawn 
balance. This letter  ended  with:
Its not too late to talk to us
If you cant pay the full balance or arrears we may be prepared to accept a reduced sum
together with realistic  proposals for regular monthly payments which may mean we dont
need to close  your account.  You must [my emphasis]  call us if you want  to discuss such an 
arrangement. 
I cant see that Mr A called. Instead  he wrote a further complaint letter.  Lloyds responded In 
August 2018.  It stood  by its decision to change the way it charged  for overdraft usage, 
reminded Mr A a formal demand has been  issued, and suggested he contact its recoveries  
department when the account had closed to arrange repayment of the debt. It also agreed to 
backdate the default  to 7 February 2018.
Lloyds sent Mr A a further letter in September 2018 warning him the account would be 
closed. No payments  were made  to the account  so in October 2018 Lloyds closed the 
account, passed the debt to its recoveries department and registered a default with the credit 
reference agencies.  
I know Mr A is very unhappy  Lloyds  did this. But I think it was the right thing  to do. He owed 
the debt and hadnt made a payment towards  it for quite some time. Its also clear to me the 
relationship between Mr A and Lloyds had broken down. By defaulting  the account Lloyds 
ensured no further overdraft fees would be applied, meaning any payments he makes  
towards the debt will solely reduce the amount owed. It follows  that I think  Lloyds offer to 
backdate the account  closure  to 7 February 2018 is a positive one. It will mean the default  
registered with the credit reference agencies will expire some months sooner, and it will 
have the effect  of reducing Mr As debt as overdraft fees applied beyond that date will be 
refunded. 
Im aware Mr A has continued with his complaint past the closure of the account, including  
that he made an offer to avoid  the account  closing. My understanding  is that this offer was 
made after the deadline set out in the warning letter from September 2018, so it doesnt  
change my mind about it being fair for Lloyds to close the account when it did.
the credit  card account
Mr A had a Lloyds credit card account. It was closed as a result of a change with a 
commercial partner. Another ombudsman issued a final decision on the closure of the 
account so Im not going to comment on that here.  
Ref: DRN47210174But, linked to the closure of the existing  credit card account was the option  to open a new 
one. Mr A wasnt  given this option  and considers this to be unfair. I have considered  this 
point. I have also considered what happened  later with the existing account. 
In January 2019 Lloyds told Mr A his credit  card account would be closed. It said it wouldnt 
be able to offer him an alternative credit card account. It went  on to say: 
When  we close your account if you owe us money we will carry on sending you monthly
statements as you will need to make  at least the minimum payment, or any other payment 
you have agreed,  on time each month until your balance is completely cleared.
Mr A complained. In response Lloyds said it had carried out a review, taking into account 
factors such  as the way a customer runs their accounts, and Mr A hadnt met their criteria for 
an alternative credit card account.  I understand Mr As disappointment.  Lloyds hasnt 
disclosed the exact reasons behind its decision.  But given Mr As current account had 
recently defaulted due to non-payment, and his credit card statements showed  signs  of 
persistent debt, I think its decision to decline giving Mr A an alternative credit  card account 
was reasonable.
As set out above, the account closing didnt mean Mr A needed to repay his balance in full 
straightaway. He just needed to make  minimum payments (or more) on time each  month 
until the balance  was cleared. Mr A, however, stopped making  payments completely.  This 
led to arrears accruing,  and eventually, a default being registered  with the credit references 
agencies. Similar to with Mr As current account,  I think this was the right thing for Lloyds to 
do as payments werent being made, there  was no constructive engagement  about 
repayment arrangements, and by treating the account as in default, interest was 
permanently suspended, meaning Mr As debt didnt increase. 
Lloyds went on to sell Mr As credit card debt to a third party.  I accept Mr A would have 
preferred the debt to stay with Lloyds.  But Lloyds is entitled to sell a debt if it chooses to and 
Im not persuaded the circumstances here mean it was unfair for Lloyds to do so.   
customer service
Having reviewed all the correspondence related to this complaint its clear Mr A is very 
unhappy with the customer service hes received from Lloyds. But Lloyds not doing  what  he 
wants isnt in and of itself poor customer service. Overall, Im satisfied  Lloyds dealt with Mr A 
in a professional  manner  and responded to contact from him appropriately.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2021.
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4721017