K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that shes been unable to make transfers from the savings account she 
holds with Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays).
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
In summary,  I was intending  to uphold Mrs Ss complaint  in part. Barclays  could have 
communicated with Mrs S much better than it did. And there  were  times the information it 
gave Mrs S wasnt quite right  and so this caused  inconvenience and delays in the issue  
getting sorted out. Barclays also acknowledge it could  have  done  better. In my provisional 
decision, I thought that Barclays should  pay Mrs S an additional £100 on top of the £100 it 
had already paid,  to compensate her for the inconvenience. 
I also said that Barclays should help Mr M, on behalf  of Mrs S, try to get access to transfer  
the funds either online  or through telephone banking.
Barclays responded to my provisional decision to say it didnt have  anything  further to add, 
and that it agreed  to pay an additional £100  to Mrs S for the inconvenience  caused  as 
detailed on my provisional decision below.
Mr M, on behalf  of Mrs S didnt  respond  to my provisional decision so I have assumed that 
neither of them have anything further to add.
my findings
I have again considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint in part.
Because Barclays agreed with my provisional  decision, and Mrs S hasnt  responded, I see no 
reason to change  my provisional decision. Ive attached this to the bottom  of this final decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should pay Mrs S £100  on top of the £100 it 
has already paid to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019. 
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN47733292copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs S complains that shes been unable to make transfers from the savings account she holds with 
Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays).
background
This complaint has been  brought to our service by Mr M, on behalf of Mrs S. Mr M is Mrs Ss brother  
and has third party  access (TPA)  to operate the account on her behalf.
Mrs S used to live in the UK but moved abroad some years ago. At that point she kept her savings  
account with Barclays so that it could receive her UK pension. 
In 2012 Mr M starting managing  the account which  involved  him visiting his local branch of Barclays 
to arrange transfers from Mrs Ss savings  account  to the current account he held with another bank.  
He would then execute  whatever instructions his sister gave him in relation  to her money.
Mr M subsequently moved to Spain. Since then, he has sent written instructions  to the Barclays 
branch to make transfers  on his behalf. Mr M says a number  of the transfers werent made  on time. 
This first happened  in 2015, but was rectified.
Since then,  transfers in November and December  2017 didnt go through on the scheduled date. And 
Barclays said the arrangement  Mr M had with the branch was a localised  one and not part of its 
normal process. The staff member who was sorting out the transfers was off work sick and so some of 
the transfers didnt go through.
Barclays say its no longer able to accommodate the local arrangement  Mr M had with the branch. 
And its said that if he continues to send instructions in the way he had been, there would be no 
guarantee the transfers would  be successful.
Barclays say it has set up telephone  banking  for Mr M so he can make the monthly  transfers that way 
instead. It says it sent Mr M a passcode so he could  access  Mrs Ss account. But Mr M has said he 
hasnt been able to get the telephone banking  to work  and he hasnt ever received the passcode  that 
Barclays last sent back in 2018.
When Mr M complained to Barclays about these issues it offered £100 as compensation for the 
branch staff not managing  his expectations appropriately  and for the inconvenience of them  not 
continuing with the transfers. Mr M wasnt  happy with Barclays response and so came to our service.
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold this complaint. The arrangement  Mr M had with 
Barclays was outside  of its normal process so she didnt think she could ask Barclays to continue  with 
it. Shed also seen information to suggest Barclays had set up telephone banking for Mr M  and so 
he should be able to make  transfers from Mrs Ss account in this way.
Mr M didnt agree with our adjudicator saying that, amongst other things, he was still unable to make 
transfers. Because of this, the complaint has been  passed to me to make a decision on the matter.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, Im currently  minded to uphold Mrs Ss 
complaint in part.
I appreciate how frustrating this situation must be for both Mrs S and Mr M. Barclays has worked with 
Mr M in a set way for some  year but it doesnt want to continue doing so - perhaps because  it leaves 
room for mistakes to happen. And so Im not going to ask Barclays to continue with the arrangement  
Mr M had with the branch staff  where he sent an annual  written instruction  and someone made the 
transfer on his behalf each month.
Ref: DRN47733293Mrs S and Mr M will need to go through the normal  channels that Barclays offers  for this. The notes  
Ive seen from Barclays internal systems say it told Mr M in 2016, during a phone call that he wouldnt  
be able to continue to make transfers with the annual instruction anymore.  Mr M disagrees that he 
was ever told this. It isnt clear to me if Mr M was told this in 2016 or not. But Barclays continued to 
make the transfers  as per the local arrangement after this date. So regardless of whether Barclays 
told Mr M or not, it still continued to accept the instructions sent by Mr M and continued  to make the 
payments. So I think Mr M probably still thought it was acceptable  to make arrangements this way.
Its clear Barclays  didnt do enough to let Mr M know sooner that he couldnt continue with the 
arrangement. Barclays has acknowledged that it could have managed  expectations better. And so it 
offered £100  for the inconvenience. And I think this is a fair amount to settle this part of the complaint.
Barclays later made an error  in telling Mr M that he could  contact them in writing to set up a standing  
order from Mrs Ss savings account. Mr M then wrote to Barclays to set up the standing  order,  only to 
get a reply saying that this facility wasnt available for savings accounts. I appreciate how frustrating 
this must  have been for Mrs S as this inconvenience has also caused further delay  in getting the issue 
resolved. And so I think Barclays should compensate Mrs S an extra £100.
If Mrs S wants to continue using the savings account and allowing Mr M to operate  it on her behalf 
then Barclays has said Mr M can use the telephone banking  facility to make the monthly  transfers.  
Mr M hasnt suggested that telephone banking wont be suitable for him but I understand  hes had 
some problems setting it up. So Ive thought about that and I can see Mr M has third party  access  
(TPA) to operate Mrs Ss account through telephone banking  so it looks like he has authority to use 
this service. And Barclays have said they cant see any reason why this facility wouldnt work for him. 
For example, Barclays  have  said its possible for someone  with only an Everyday Saver Account to 
use telephone banking and theres  no requirement  to also have a current account.
Barclays say it issued  Mr M with a passcode to be able to access  telephone banking and this was last 
sent in April 2018. If Mr M hasnt received  this, then he should contact Barclays direct to request this 
again in the way our investigator has already described. Im not aware of any reason why the passcode  
would not have arrived at Mr Ms address in Spain  as Barclays  hold the correct  address for him.
If Mr M continues  to experience problems  in receiving  the passcode, Barclays should  do more to help 
him and think  of other ways  it could  help get this to him. Such  as, sending the passcode  to a branch 
and asking them to send this on recorded delivery.  If Barclays has any concerns  about  this then it 
should advise as such in response to this provisional decision.
Barclays have also let me know that it is now possible to set up online banking for this type of account 
without the previous requirement to have a current account as well. Mrs S or Mr M will need to contact  
Barclays direct  to arrange for this to be set up.
I appreciate that Mr M has spent a lot of time going back and forth trying  to make  this arrangement. 
But overall,  I think Barclays  has done what  it can to try and assist  Mrs S and Mr M in making the 
transfers  although this has proved difficult. I think some of the difficulties have been partly down to 
the nature of savings accounts, in that theyre not designed to be used in the way Mrs M does, with 
her need for regular outgoing payments.
Barclays could have been clearer about the fact it wasnt going to continue making the payments via 
the annual instruction. I think  the £100 Barclays has already offered is fair to compensate for this. 
Barclays should pay an additional £100 for the additional inconvenience and delays that its caused  to 
getting the issue resolved,  for the reasons  Ive already  explained above.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im planning to uphold Mrs Ss complaint in part. Barclays should  pay 
Mrs S an additional £100 on top of the £100 it has already offered.
I now invite  Mrs S and Barclays to give me any further information they want me to consider before I 
make my final decision.  This must be provided to us by 18 October  2019.
Ref: DRN4773329