K821x#15complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Paysafe Financial Services Limited (trading as NETELLER)  wont 
refund transactions he didnt authorise. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont  repeat them  again  
here. Instead Ill recap the key points  and focus  on giving the reasons  for my decision:  
On 16 May 2018, Mr O received an email purporting to be from NETELLER. This 
said his account  had been disabled  because he provided an incorrect answer to his 
security question. It asked him to follow a link to verify the information. 
Mr O initially  told NETELLER that he believed  this email was genuine as hed 
recently made a payment from his account.  Later, through  his professional 
representative, Mr O said he didnt follow any links or give any information as he 
thought it was spam. 
On 18 and 19 May 2018,  several  payments were made from Mr Os NETELLER 
account totalling $12,507.06. $1,940.74 was recovered. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017, Mr O isnt liable for payments he 
didnt authorise,  unless he failed  with gross negligence or intent to comply with the 
terms of the account or keep his personalised security details safe.
Im satisfied  Mr O didnt authorise  these transactions as he didnt complete the 
agreed steps laid out in the accounts  terms and conditions for payments to be made. 
Instead, I think its likely that Mr O followed  the link in the phishing  email and 
provided information  that corresponds with what he told NETELLER just a few days  
after it happened. With this information,  it seems fraudsters were able to log on and 
make the payments.  This is supported by all the payments coming from new IP 
addresses in a vastly  different location  to Mr Os. 
I dont think Mr O intentionally failed  to keep her details safe in how he responded to 
the phishing email  he thought his account  had been suspended and that he needed 
to verify his details.  
I also dont think Mr O failed with gross  negligence. Ive seen a copy  of the email and 
I can see how he believed it came from NETELLER. Its broadly in line with their 
branding, and Im mindful that hes unlikely  to have  had many  genuine  emails  from 
NETELLER of this nature   that couldve allowed him to easily spot that this was 
fake. 
Given that Mr O trusted the sender, I can understand why he followed the 
instructions and clicked on the link. Particularly given how hed recently made a 
transaction through NETELLER  and so, it made sense to him that he mightve  got 
something wrong and, therefore, needed to verify the account. 
Ref: DRN40827402Ive not seen a copy  of the website this linked to. But given the email and our 
experience seeing  similar scams involving NETELLER, I think  its likely that it 
wouldve been equally  convincing  that Mr O needed to provide information  to 
NETELLER to verify his account. Indeed, I note he commented in his original 
testimony that the link took him to a secure  page  which a lot of people take to mean 
that the website  is safe and legitimate.
In these circumstances, I think lots of people wouldve acted the way Mr O did. It 
follows that I dont  think his actions fell so far below  what  a reasonable person 
wouldve done that it amounts to gross negligence. So I conclude that Mr O isnt 
liable for the transactions  and NETELLER need  to put things right. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Mr Os complaint and I order Paysafe Financial 
Services Limited to:
Pay Mr O the total of the unauthorised  transactions,  less any amount already 
returned. Paysafe  may deduct £35 from this amount, as per the account terms and 
conditions and the Payment Services Regulations 2017.  
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully  deductible).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 January 2021.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4082740