K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that MBNA Limited  (MBNA)  have rejected a claim he made  to them  under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (section 75).
background
Mr K bought software  from a company Ill call G on 19 November 2007.  He used his MBNA 
credit card. He says the sales agent told him it would help him to make  savings  and hed 
triple his investment  of almost £4,000. But when he received the software he couldnt 
understand how to use it and the online support was poor. He wanted a refund.
He contacted MBNA in February  2019.  He said that section 75 gave  him a like claim against 
them, as the provider of credit, as he would have against G. But MBNA explained that 
legislation required him to make a section 75 claim within six years and they said he was 
therefore out of time.
Mr K therefore referred his complaint to this service. But our investigator agreed  with MBNA. 
She explained that the Limitations Act (1980) required claims to be made within  six years  of 
the date of any alleged breach of contract or misrepresentation. And, as Mr K bought the 
software in 2007  but didnt raise his claim until 2019,  she didnt think MBNA  had been  
unreasonable to reject  the claim as it was made  out of time.  She understood that Mr K had 
explained hed called  MBNA  only a month  after receiving the product and had been  told he 
could not make a section  75 claim.  But she didnt think  this had been corroborated or that 
there was evidence hed been  told he could not progress a claim.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators view and he therefore asked  for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators opinion. I know that will disappoint Mr K so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr K made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Ref: DRN42730202When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
But the Limitations Act (1980) says that the claim  must be made within  six years from the 
date on which the cause of action accrued. Here  thats the date when  Mr K bought the 
software and as this was in November 2007 and he didnt  make his claim until February  
2019 he was out of time to make  a section 75 claim. So I dont think  MBNA have been 
unreasonable when rejecting it.
I understand that Mr K says he raised his claim with them  initially  only about  a month after 
hed bought the software. But Ive not seen sufficient evidence  about that to persuade me 
that he was told his section 75 claim could not be made. 
So Im not asking MBNA to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4273020