K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Debt Managers (Services) Limited (DMS) are wrongly chasing him in 
relation to a disputed balance with a third party  business. He asks for the debt to be written 
off, his credit record amended and an apology.
background
On 15 August 2016, a third party business,  Ill call Business N wrote to Mr R to advise him it 
had assigned an outstanding balance on Mr Rs account of £1,104.09 to DMS. It began 
contacting Mr R in an attempt to secure payment.
Mr R says he wasnt aware  he had an outstanding  balance and although he acknowledged  
he had ordered  from Business N, he didnt enter  into a credit agreement with it. He asked 
DMS to provide evidence  that the outstanding balance was his.
DMS says it responded  and provided  copy statements it had requested from Business  N. 
Throughout 2017, Mr R requested more evidence that this debt was in his name. DMS 
provided all the information  provided  by Business N, but Mr R remained dissatisfied.
In April 2018, DMS sent the account  to its solicitors  for legal action. In August 2018, Mr Rs 
representative complained to the solicitors. She said there was no evidence this debt was 
owed by Mr R and asked  it be written off. On 11 August 2018, a final response was issued.  
Mr Rs complaint wasnt upheld. It provided Mr R with statements detailing order  dates, 
payment dates and amounts, items ordered  and a copy of the signed  credit  agreement.
Mr R remained  dissatisfied and referred  his complaint to this service. An investigator looked 
into things for Mr R. She looked carefully at all the information provided  by both parties and 
requested information  from Business N. She explained she was only looking at whether 
DMS had acted fairly and reasonably in pursuing Mr R for the outstanding balance. She 
could see DMS had been attempting to contact  Mr R since 2016.  She looked  at all the 
documentation it provided to Mr R including the credit agreement, statements and payment 
amounts. She found, on balance, there was sufficient evidence that the outstanding balance 
was Mr Rs and DMS hadnt done  anything wrong  in attempting to secure  payment. 
Mr R raised a number of concerns. He said Business N hadnt sent him any correspondence 
to suggest it had sold the debt to DMS. He also didnt agree the statements provided enough 
detail at best he feels they were  vague  with missing information.
Ref: DRN40847292Our investigator responded. She explained she had seen a copy  of the letter sent from 
Business N, advising  Mr R the outstanding balance would be sold to DMS. She confirmed it 
had been sent to the address it had on file. She also had seen copies of contact records  
which showed Mr R had been in April 2011,  to change his contact  details and again in 
September 2011 to explain he was in financial difficulty. Business N invited Mr R to make an 
offer of payment but Mr R didnt enter  into a repayment plan with it. Concerning the 
statements, she explained this service cant look at how a business  writes a statement, as 
that is a commercial decision.  She said the purpose of the statement is to show how much  is 
owed and when  payment  should be made. She found the statement to be correctly 
addressed and had all the relevant information  and so she remained of the view DMS had 
provided enough evidence the debt was owed by Mr R and it was pursuing him fairly for 
payment.
Mr R raised a number of concerns. He queried  the date on the Notice of Assignment  (NOA)  
and why the statement hed received from DMS was different to the one sent by Business N. 
He also challenged  the validity of the debt given the solicitors decision to return it to DMS for 
collection rather than issuing a legal claim in court.
Our investigator issued  a further view addressing Mr Rs concerns. She agreed the date on 
the NOA  was incorrect, but after further investigation, she concluded this was an 
administrative error and as it had been  sent to, Mr R, at the correct  address she remained of 
the view Business N had notified Mr R of the assignment.  With regard to the difference on 
the statements  and whether this constituted  a data protection  breach,  she explained this was 
a matter for the Information Commissioners  Office and not this service. She also explained  
the decision taken  by DMS and the solicitors about  whether  or not it would issue legal 
proceedings were  a matter for them.  She remained of the view, that DMS had acted  fairly  
and reasonably in pursuing Mr R for the outstanding  balance and so didnt ask it to do 
anything further.
Mr R disagreed. He asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information provided 
by both parties, and Business N afresh.  Having done so, Ive reached  the same  view as the 
investigator. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment  to Mr R, Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
At the outset, I think its important to say that as the complaint is about DMS, Im only looking 
at whether DMS have  fairly pursued Mr R for an outstanding balance.  Im not looking at any 
of the actions of Company N, although it has provided copies of the documentation it sent to 
DMS.
 
From what  Ive seen, Im satisfied that when the account was sold to DMS, the outstanding 
balance on Mr Rs account was £1,104.09.  This relates to an outstanding balance  on an 
account held by Company N. DMS has said that it relied on information supplied by the 
original creditor and that it acted in good  faith.
Ref: DRN40847293Id expect DMS to take steps before pursuing  a debt, such as (amongst  other things) 
completing a proper person trace and checking  what the debt relates to. In circumstances 
where the debt is disputed, such as this one, Id expect DMS to make further enquiries of the 
original creditor to satisfy itself that the debt is justified before it took steps  to pursue it.
Im persuaded that it has done  so. It has provided  both Mr R and this service with copies of 
documents R including the credit agreement, statements and payment amounts. Im in 
agreement with the investigator that on balance, there is sufficient evidence that the 
outstanding balance was Mr Rs and DMS hadnt  done anything wrong in attempting to 
secure payment
While the ombudsman service takes  account  of the relevant law etc., were  in the end 
obliged to decide complaints by reference to what we think  is fair and reasonable. My 
understanding is that Mr R doesnt deny he had an catalogue account with Company N. The 
available evidence has persuaded  me, on the balance of probabilities,  that the debt was 
assigned to DMS and that the amount said to owe is correct. That being so, I cant  fairly 
require DMS not to ask Mr R to repay the debt or write it off. 
As I have already  said my decision is with regard to the actions taken by DMS, this doesnt  
prevent Mr R from raising a complaint with Company N, should  he wish to do so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4084729