K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Accord Mortgages  Limited treated them unfairly when it wouldnt 
use a lump sum payment to reduce the term of their mortgage. 
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a repayment mortgage  with Accord  in early 2017  with a 13 year term. 
They made a lump sum payment  to their mortgage account in late 2018  and say they intend 
to make lump sum payments each  year. They  want the lump sums to be used to reduce the 
term of their mortgage. 
Accord said it needed Mr and Mrs B to provide income and expenditure information so it 
could consider whether to reduce the term. Mr and Mrs B say this is intrusive and 
unnecessary. As Mr and Mrs B didnt provide the information, Accord used  the lump  sum to 
reduce the contractual  monthly payment.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He said using the lump sum to 
reduce the term wasnt a change to the mortgage  contract likely to be material  to 
affordability. This was because Mr and Mrs Bs contractual monthly payment would remain 
the same  as before the overpayment. So Accord wasnt required  by relevant regulations to 
assess affordability. While  this didnt mean it couldnt do an affordability  assessment, this 
didnt seem necessary.  The investigator said Mr and Mrs B had maintained  their contractual  
monthly payment  and there was nothing to suggest reducing the term wasnt  in their best 
interests. 
Our investigator said Accord should  apply the lump  sum to reduce the term and backdate 
this to the date Mr and Mrs B made  the payment. He said it should also pay Mr and Mrs B 
£200 for their trouble  and upset.
I sent a provisional  decision  to the parties. I said, in the particular circumstances here,  
Accord wasnt required by the regulations  to carry out an affordability  assessment before 
using overpayments  to reduce the term. I said Accord  needed to consider Mr and Mrs Bs 
best interests  and when doing so the fact that their monthly payment wouldnt increase 
was a factor, as was the fact that the overpayments will reduce the overall  cost of their 
mortgage. While Accord said there were ways for Mr and Mrs B to use overpayments  to 
reduce the term of their mortgage, these  required additional administration  which  I thought to 
be unnecessary.
In my provisional decision,  I said Accord should apply Mr and Mrs Bs previous lump  sum 
payments to reduce the term of their mortgage, backdating the change to the date that 
Mr and Mrs B made the lump sum payment. And, going forward,  provided Accord  has no 
reason to think Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  had deteriorated and theres  no change in 
relevant regulations, it should allow Mr and Mrs B to make lump  sum payments to reduce  the 
contractual term of their mortgage without requiring an affordability assessment. And it 
should pay £200 compensation for the trouble caused to Mr and Mrs B. 
Accord didnt agree. It said it stood by its policy of requiring an affordability assessment to 
check the customers can sustain payments under  a stressed environment,  such as a 
reduction in income  or increase in interest  rates. It also said it doesnt have an automated  
process, so Mr and Mrs B would have  to contact it when they make overpayments  and 
Ref: DRN45458452request the term reduction.  Mr B said he didnt agree with some  of my reasoning, but they 
accepted the outcome.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr and Mrs B took out a repayment mortgage  with Accord  in early 2017  with a term of 
13 years.  They  took out a fixed interest  rate product.  This allows them to make 
overpayments of up to 10% of the balance each year without incurring an early  repayment 
charge. Mr and Mrs B intend  to make overpayments and want  to use them to reduce the 
term of their mortgage.
what does the mortgage offer say about  overpayments? 
The mortgage offer provides for overpayments to be used to reduce the term. Mr B has 
commented on the contractual position and I think its worth setting out this part of the 
mortgage offer here:
If you want  a lump sum payment or regular overpayments  to reduce the term of a 
repayment mortgage you must:
 tell us at the time of making the lump  sum payment
 set up and maintain a static payment arrangement
 monitor  the static payment arrangement to take account of any changes to your 
mortgage such as interest  rate increases
 contact us at each Account Review, or when a recalculation event  occurs,  to ensure 
the payment arrangement continues to meet your needs.
It is not compulsory to follow the above  requirements. But if you do not do so then your 
monthly mortgage payment will automatically be adjusted at Account Review,  or when a 
recalculation event occurs, in line with your remaining contractual  mortgage term and 
that term will not be reduced.
Accords notes say that Mr B called  in October  2018. He wanted to pay £35,000 and reduce 
the term. But he didnt  want the static payment option. He was told to speak to the sales 
team when hed made the payment. When Mr B contacted Accord again,  he was told it 
would only reduce the term of the mortgage  after doing affordability  checks.  
I think Accord acted in accordance with the mortgage offer. This says there are steps 
Mr and Mrs B must follow if they want  the mortgage  term to reduce. One of these is setting 
up static payments  which Mr B said he didnt want to do. As Mr and Mrs B didnt follow  the 
steps, I think Accord acted in accordance with the mortgage offer when  it reduced  their 
monthly payments  rather than the mortgage term. 
Accord offered Mr and Mrs B another way to reduce the mortgage term. This required them 
to go through  an affordability assessment, which they also didnt want to do. 
I think what Accord has said is within the terms of the mortgage offer. But this doesnt mean 
its acting fairly and in accordance with relevant mortgage regulations.
Ref: DRN45458453what do the relevant  mortgage regulations say?
Accord says its required by mortgage  regulations to carry out an affordability assessment 
before reducing  the term of the mortgage.  Mortgage  regulations (in particular MCOB 11.6.2) 
require the lender to carry out an affordability  assessment before making  a change to an 
existing mortgage.  There are exceptions to this. MCOB 11.6.3 says a lender doesnt need  to 
carry out an affordability assessment if theres no additional borrowing and no change to the 
terms of the mortgage  contract likely to be material to affordability.
Mr and Mrs B are asking for a change to the terms of the mortgage contract. A reduction in 
the term would usually be considered a change likely to be material to affordability . This is 
because a reduction in the term would usually result  in higher monthly  payments.
Here though the intention is that the term would be reduced only by the amount covered by 
the overpayments made  by Mr and Mrs B. So there  wouldnt be an increase in the monthly 
payments. I think in these  particular circumstances the exception  in MCOB 11.6.3 does 
apply. So Accord doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment. 
Regulations also require  Accord  to act in accordance  with Mr and Mrs Bs best interests. 
Whether a change is in a customers  best interests will depend on their particular  
circumstances. The fact that Mr and Mrs Bs monthly payment wouldnt increase is an 
important part of this assessment   as is the fact that the overpayments  will reduce the 
overall cost of their mortgage. 
has Accord treated Mr and Mrs B fairly?
Accord isnt preventing Mr and Mrs B making  overpayments. The dispute is about the 
process Mr and Mrs B have to follow to reduce their contractual mortgage term.
Accord told Mr and Mrs B they have two options  if they want to use their overpayments to 
reduce the mortgage term. They can set up static payments  to keep their monthly payments 
at a higher level.  Or, they can ask for a contractual  change to the mortgage  term,  which will 
require them to go through an affordability  assessment. 
Both of these options involve Mr and Mrs B in additional administration.  So Accord  has to 
consider whether this is necessary.
Mr and Mrs Bs monthly payment wont increase, so theres no reason to think the change 
will affect affordability. I dont think regulations require an affordability  assessment. 
Accords lending guidelines say where a customer is reducing a term as it means  the 
customers monthly payment will increase, we have to ensure the customer will be able to 
afford the payment. The guidelines assume  that the monthly payment will increase. Thats  
not the case here. I think Accord  should re-consider whether its applying its policy fairly.
Accord says it has to review Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  to ensure the term reduction  is 
suitable moving forwards, taking into consideration the impact of potential  future  rate rises 
on the reduced term. But if rates do rise, Mr and Mrs B will not be in a worse  position as a 
result of an overpayment being used to reduce the term (as compared to not making an 
overpayment). 
Ref: DRN45458454Allowing Mr and Mrs B to make overpayments will reduce the overall cost of repaying  the 
mortgage. I dont  think its in Mr and Mrs Bs best interests to make this more difficult  than it 
needs to be.
I dont think its fair for Accord  to require Mr and Mrs B to set up static payments  or go 
through an affordability assessment which isnt required by regulations  and which serves no 
meaningful purpose. 
what happens now?
I think Accord should apply the lump sum payment made in 2018 to reduce the term of 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage, backdating  the change to the date that Mr and Mrs B made  the 
lump sum payment. Mr and Mrs B say they made lump sum payments in 2019. I think 
Accord should also apply  these payments to reduce the term of the mortgage,  again 
backdating the change to the date of the payment. 
Going forward, provided Accord has no reason  to think Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances have 
deteriorated and theres no change in relevant  regulations,  I think Accord should  allow  
Mr and Mrs B to make lump sum payments to reduce the contractual term of their mortgage 
without requiring an affordability  assessment.
Accord says it cant  provide for term reduction on an automated  basis,  so Mr and Mrs B 
would have to contact it when they make an overpayment and ask for it to be used to reduce  
the term. I think it would  be reasonable for Mr and Mrs B to contact Accord  to make  this 
request, but this shouldnt be used by Accord to require an affordability assessment.
I think this matter has caused Mr and Mrs B some  trouble and upset.  I think Accord should  
pay compensation for this. In the circumstances, I think  £200 is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Accord Mortgages  Limited  to take the 
steps and pay the compensation set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4545845