K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Welcome Financial  Services Limited (Welcome) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
In 2004, Mr and Mrs F took out a hire purchase loan with Welcome  to buy a car. At the same 
time they were sold a single premium PPI policy  to protect their loan repayments if Mr F 
wasnt able to work because of an accident,  sickness or unemployment. The policy  cost 
£2155.59 and, as it was paid for by a loan, Mr and Mrs F paid interest on this premium.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr and Mrs F say that it wasnt made  clear to them by Welcome that the PPI was optional  
and they could choose not to take it. But I have to bear in mind  that this sale took place well 
over ten years ago and memories do tend to fade over such  long time periods. So I need to 
look at all the available evidence to decide  what  I think is most likely  to have happened at 
the time.
Welcome has provided a copy of the loan agreement which Mr and Mrs F signed at the time. 
I can see that on this agreement the PPI premium is shown in a section of the form headed 
Agreement For Optional Insurance. And theres a double cross pre-printed in a box beside 
the premium to show that this cover has been selected. This makes me think its more likely 
than not that the sales advisor  would  have discussed PPI with Mr and Mrs F and got their 
agreement to taking  it before  this agreement was printed off and signed by them.  If it hadnt  
been, I think theyd  probably have queried why they were being  asked to sign an agreement 
which included the additional cost of PPI clearly described as optional. 
Theres also a Customers Declaration section  immediately  above Mr and Mrs F signatures 
which includes the statement I/We understand that the purchase of Payment Protection 
Insurance and other insurances  are optional and not required by us as a condition  of 
entering into this agreement.
So having  carefully considered all the information  available to me, I think its most likely that 
Mr and Mrs F actively agreed  to take the PPI policy, knowing  they could choose not to. But I 
can understand why they may not be able to recall  this now.
Ref: DRN44814822The PPI was recommended to Mr and Mrs F by Welcome. This means that it had to ensure 
that the cover provided was suitable  for them. I dont know all the steps  that Welcome took 
to do this. But from what I know of Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances at that time, I cant  see any 
reason why the PPI wouldnt have been suitable. I say this because:
Mr F appears  to have been eligible for the policy and not affected  by any of its main 
exclusions or other limitations.
Mr and Mrs F dont  seem to have had any means of paying their monthly repayments on 
their loan if Mr F was unable to work. In any case,  the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any other means  they might have  had. It could have paid out for the 
outstanding term of the loan if Mr F was off sick for that period because  of an accident or 
sickness. And it could have paid out for up to twelve months if Mr F became 
unemployed. So I think that Mr and Mrs F would have valued  the extra security that the 
PPI policy gave  them.
Ive no reason to think that the PPI was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs F. And although 
they wouldnt have  received a proportionate  refund  of the premium  if they cancelled the 
policy early,  I havent any reason to think that this was particularly likely.
Welcome also needed  to give Mr and Mrs F enough information  for them  to decide if they 
wanted to take the PPI. I think its possible that the information Welcome gave them wasnt  
as good as it could have  been. But for much  the same reasons that I dont think  the PPI 
policy was unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs F, I dont  think that better information would have 
changed their minds about  taking it. I think theyd still have thought  it gave them useful cover 
at an affordable cost.
So I dont  think that Mr and Mrs F have lost out by anything that Welcome may have done 
wrong when it sold them  this PPI policy.
Ive thought carefully about the reasons  Mr and Mrs Fs representative has given for not 
agreeing with the adjudicators view.  But this hasnt changed my mind about  not upholding 
this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint against Welcome Financial Services 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 June 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4481482