K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the life cover included with his mortgage endowment  policy sold to 
him by Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited  in 1991.  He says he didnt  need,  ask for, or want  
such cover.
background
The business didnt  uphold the complaint. It explained that the provision of life cover was an 
integral part of the policy. It explained the benefits of having  that cover.
Mr K said that he was still unhappy  in that he had no need for cover, was single and had no 
prospect of needing  it in the future.  He came to us.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the file. She said the cover provided benefits  in that in 
addition to life cover, it made the proceeds  of the policy tax free. It also met the requirements  
of many lenders  who insisted on life cover being  provided before they would lend for 
mortgage purposes. She did not think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr K said if the lender  could insist on life cover  that changes the whole argument.  He 
repeated that he hasnt  and never  has any need  for life cover. He accepts the taxation 
argument may be valid. He also queries what has happened with his maturity payment due 
from the business.
He remains unhappy  and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. I have been  passed  the 
file.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, I dont uphold this 
complaint. I know this isnt what Mr K wants.
Lending is a commercial decision (you cant force a lender  to lend).  If a lender puts 
conditions on lending  such as a requirement for life cover, that is a matter for that lender. In 
fact, historically, no lending of any significant amount (mortgage or otherwise) was available  
without a standalone life policy (or an endowment or similar). 
There was, and is, nothing wrong with that. Although Mr Ks circumstances did not make life 
cover a necessity that could of course  have  changed. If not taken out early,  life cover can 
become expensive, even unavailable, greatly limiting options  for the future.  Also as Mr K 
now knows there are tax implications. If a policy follows a number of highly complex tax rules  
it becomes qualifying.  That means  any proceeds are tax free. Having life cover included in 
the policy is one of the things required in order to make a policy qualifying.
I also note the other points made  which I agree with. The cover was an integral part of the 
policy, it is more likely  than not that there was something in the original paperwork which  
could have alerted  Mr K to the fact he was paying  for this cover and the costs are likely  to 
have been modest.
While I can see why Mr K has complained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN47673312As I understand it Mr K should by now have received his maturity  payment. If he has any 
further concerns  about that he must contact the business directly.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2019.
Mike Boyall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4767331