K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has not paid a claim in full, even  though it 
initially advised it would.
background
Mrs C needed emergency dental assistance whilst  on holiday. She made a claim under her 
travel insurance policy with UKI. UKI took some time in responding and processing  the 
claim. Once  the claim had been processed it informed Mrs C the claim would be paid in full, 
however, it later corrected  this information as the cost of the claimed treatment exceeded the 
maximum benefit under the policy. UKI paid the claim  in line with the policy limit and paid 
Mrs C £250 in recognition of the incorrect information and some other customer service  
issues. Mrs C brought  a complaint to this service  as she believed UKI should honour the 
claim in full. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and did not uphold the complaint. They were 
of the view that Mrs C should have been aware  of the limitations of the policy. They did not 
agree that UKI should cover the cost of the claim in full if this is not something the policy  
would ever have  done.  
They did believe  Mrs C was in the same claim position she would have been in had no error 
occurred. They didnt  think if Mrs C had been  told the correct position  from the start she 
would have done anything differently. The adjudicator did agree that some compensation for 
the customer service issues and the loss of expectation was due. But they considered  the 
£250 already offered by UKI to be fair. Mrs C did not agree, so the case has been passed  to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding  this complaint, for roughly the same reasons as the adjudicator.  
The terms and conditions  of the policy state:
The most  we will pay
The most we will pay for each insured person  is:
 Emergency Medical Costs and Related Costs  outside your  home area:
 £1,000 for emergency dental  treatment for emergency pain relief.
In view of the policy  wording I couldnt  ask UKI to pay more than the policy  limit under these 
circumstances. As Mrs C had the treatment  before  any claim was made I dont think she 
would have acted  any differently if told the right answer from the outset. Things might be 
different if she had checked  the claim amount prior to treatment and based any treatment  
decisions on that, but she didnt. 
I do agree  with Mrs C though that UKI shouldnt have told her the full claim would be paid, 
and shouldnt have  caused delays to her complaint, which it seems they did. However, I can 
only make  an award there for the distress and inconvenience she suffered, the solution 
wouldnt be asking UKI to pay a claim amount that exceeded the policy limit. 
Ref: DRN46587002Looking at the award on offer, £250,  that isnt out of step with awards in cases of this nature. 
To award  more than that I would need to see that the errors  caused ongoing medical  issues 
or financial problems  that couldnt be avoided. I havent seen proof of either of those 
scenarios. On that basis I think the amount already offered is sufficient.
my final decision
I make  no award against U K Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4658700