K821x#15Complaint
Mrs S has complained that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly  continued to 
apply interest, fees and charges to her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
Background 
Mrs S complained about Halifax changes to its pricing overdraft pricing  structure and said 
this led to her experiencing financial difficulty.  One of our adjudicators  looked  at this 
complaint and thought that Halifax rework Mrs S account to remove  the effect  of all the 
interest fees and charges added to her overdraft from the point that it was renewed in July 
2015. 
Halifax accepted  our adjudicators view and worked out that Mrs S outstanding balance,  
which is currently with a third-party debt-purchaser, would reduce. But Mrs S disagreed.  She 
thought that Halifax should pay her compensation.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Halifax  has already  agreed to
do to put things right for Mrs S is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her
complaint. Ill explain  why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where  a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business  to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong  hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business  to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit  they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business continued  to allow a consumer to use a credit facility  which  it should  
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt  paid any further  interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit  
from the point the lender ought  to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those interest 
and charges were  paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case, the amount  Mrs S has been left with an outstanding balance  even though  the 
credits shes made to the account have been factored in and shes  been refunded all of the 
interest, fees and charges applied. So while Mrs S has been left with a balance on her 
overdraft and she might be unhappy with this, Halifax has done what Id normally expect it to 
do here.
That said,  we do look at each case individually and on its own particular  merits. And while 
we have a general  approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit  it shouldnt have (such as here),  we can and will tell it to do 
something different  and/or something  more if theres  a strong reason to say thats  what  
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances  of that individual case.
Ref: DRN40207102Mrs S says Halifax  should do something  different  here.  She wants compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused and the impact on her credit file. 
Ive thought about what Mrs S has said. Im sorry to hear that Mrs S mental health has 
suffered. But the reason we told Halifax that it needed to put things right for Mrs S was 
because it should  have taken corrective action in relation to her overdraft sooner. And that 
action would always have  resulted in negative information being  recorded on Mrs S credit  
file as I would expect a lender to record information about an unsustainable debt  like     
Mrs S overdraft  had become - in this way.
I also think its important for me to point out that all the interest, fees and charges Halifax 
shouldnt have added have been removed from the overdraft. So what Mrs S is left with to 
repay are the funds  which she used and benefitted from. I think  its perfectly  fair and 
reasonable to expect  Mrs S to repay these funds. And I dont  think  that Mrs S unhappiness  
at having a balance to repay, even after her complaint has been upheld,  is in itself a 
compelling reason  for me to depart from our usual approach here, or that it means  she 
hasnt benefitted  from her complaint having  been  upheld as what she owes the third-party  
debt purchaser  has reduced .
I am mindful  of what Mrs S has said about the correspondence shes received  from the third-
party debt purchaser  and about a separate Halifax credit  card account. However, weve  not 
been asked to look at a complaint about a credit card.  Equally, if Mrs S is unhappy with the 
actions or communications of the third-party  debt collector then this is a matter she will have 
to take up with it. 
Overall, Im satisfied that what  Halifax has already agreed to do to put things  right for Mrs S 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of her case  and Im not requiring it to do 
anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mrs S to decide whether she wishes to accept  
Halifaxs offer.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im satisfied  that what Bank of Scotland plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mrs S is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of her 
case. So Im not requiring it to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4020710