K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Clydesdale  Bank  Plc acted unfairly and unreasonably when telling him 
the costs of removing  its security over his property when he took out the mortgage. He wants  
matters put right.
background
Mr D had a mortgage  with Clydesdale. When he took out the mortgage, he was told there 
would be a fee of £195 to release Clydesdales security over his property. But when Mr D 
repaid his mortgage in full, he paid £495 as he also had to pay a solicitor £300 to carry out 
the legal  work connected to the removal of Clydesdales security.  Mr D felt that it shouldve  
been made clearer that the £195 quoted  was unlikely to be all the costs to be paid due to the 
need to instruct  a solicitor if the property was in Scotland. 
Mr D complained to Clydesdale. It said the security  release fee covered its costs,  not Mr Ds. 
Clydesdale said that Mr D had been  given additional information as his property was in 
Scotland explaining  that a discharge  document was needed to remove its security,  and it 
was recommended that Mr D instructed a solicitor  to do so when he got a redemption 
statement. This work was undertaken on Mr Ds behalf, so Clydesdale  wasnt at fault.
Mr D complained to us. The adjudicators view was that Clydesdale wasnt  at fault.  He said 
that it clearly set out its fee for releasing  its security, and noted that the mortgage  offer did 
warn Mr D that other costs might be involved.
Mr D disagreed. He felt that the view set out by the investigator was unfair on consumers.  
Mr D also felt that Scottish consumers were  prejudiced by this policy.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked  at the evidence available to me, Im satisfied that the release fee applies to all 
properties mortgaged  with Clydesdale, regardless of where the properties  are based, and 
covers the work needed to be undertaken by Clydesdale.  It was set out clearly in the 
mortgage documentation given to Mr D when he took out the mortgage, as Mr D accepts. I 
think its fair and reasonable for Clydesdale to charge this fee.
But Mr Ds real issue is about  the legal fees he had to pay. He feels  Clydesdale  shouldve  
told him about this when  he took out the mortgage. But there  are problems with this position.  
First, the legal fees are for work undertaken on Mr Ds behalf, not Clydesdales. And the 
work is needed due to the practices  of the Scottish  Land Registry, not Clydesdale. 
Clydesdale wouldnt have been able to predict  the amount  of future  legal costs  when Mr D 
took out the mortgage, or even if this wouldve been necessary as its possible Scotland  
could change its practice to match the position in England and Wales in the future (it is 
already piloting  electronic  discharges with standard wording). I accept that Scottish  
consumers have to do more to get their properties  free of a mortgage compared  to other 
consumers, but that isnt the fault of Clydesdale; it is connected to the point that Scotland is 
a separate legal jurisdiction to England and Wales and has its own laws.
Ref: DRN46354702Critically, lenders arent required to give consumers estimates of possible future  costs  for 
legal work  carried  out on behalf of that consumer, and I dont think  it would be fair or 
reasonable for me in all the circumstances to say Clydesdale  shouldve done so in Mr Ds 
case. It set out its fees clearly in the mortgage  offer accepted  by Mr D and did mention that 
there may be other  costs.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject  my decision before 
28 February 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4635470