K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  that she was contracted back into the State Second Pension  (S2P) 
in 2003 by The Royal London Mutual  Insurance Society Limited  (Royal  London)  without her 
consent. Miss S originally  took out her policy with the Co-Operative Insurance Society (CIS) 
which became part of Royal London. For clarity, Ive referred to Royal London throughout 
this decision.
background
Miss S contracted out of the State  Earnings  Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS) in 1989. She 
took out a Personal Pension  Plan (PPP) with Royal London. In 2004,  Royal  London wrote to 
Miss S letting her know it intended to put her back into the S2P (the successor to SERPS) 
unless she told Royal London she wanted to remain contracted  out. But Miss S says she 
didnt receive the letter  so didnt  tell Royal London what she wanted to do. As a result,
Miss S was contracted  back  in to the S2P.
In December 2018, Miss S received a statement from Royal London.  This prompted Miss S 
to ask for confirmation  of all the transactions for her plan as she couldnt verify  the amounts 
shed paid in. When Royal London gave details of the amounts of National Insurance  (NI) 
rebates that had been applied from 1989  to 2002,  Miss S says she understood the plan ran 
from 1989 to 2016.  So there appeared to be a gap in payments after 2002. Royal London 
confirmed Miss S had been contracted back in to the S2P from 2003. Miss S complained in 
March 2019, saying shed written five letters to Royal London  (with  the associated  postage  
costs) trying to get answers  to her questions. She wrote again in April 2019  pointing out she 
wasnt made aware of, and didnt authorise, contracting back  in to S2P.
Royal London sent a final response in April 2019. It agreed that the queries in Miss Ss letter 
in January 2019 werent answered  in full. It apologised for the delay and inconvenience 
Miss S had suffered and paid £25 to cover postage costs. It confirmed that all customers  
were told in 2004 of the intention to contract back in to the S2P saying this was done  with 
the best interests of customers in mind. And it also said it wouldnt  be able to reverse this 
because, in 2012, the Government  decided  to automatically contract back  in all those who 
were still contracted  out at that time.
Unhappy with this, Miss S complained  to us in April 2019. She said she wasnt  made  aware 
of being contracted back in to the S2P, it wasnt a decision  for Royal  London to make and 
Royal London had acted without her consent.  She said theres  no financial impact at present 
but there would be in future years. She asked for an analysis  between the S2P and her PPP.  
She feels this analysis will allow her to make an informed decision for herself and possibly 
reverse the action  taken by Royal London.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Miss Ss complaint.  He said:
Royal London had contracted  Miss S back into S2P in March 2004; this was backdated 
to April 2003 to take account of the tax year.
Royal London sent a letter outlining what it intended to do as it no longer  believed it likely 
that the benefits payable under her PPP would be greater  than those in the S2P. He said 
hed seen evidence  that Royal London sent this letter to the address it held for Miss S at 
the time.
Ref: DRN46253972Although Miss S said she hadnt received the letter, he couldnt hold Royal  London 
responsible for the letter possibly not being delivered. Hed not seen evidence  of issues 
with the postal delivery in Miss Ss area at the time.
Like other businesses,  Royal London was entitled to contract customers back  in to the 
S2P. This was because  of the fall in the stock  market and a reduction in rebates paid on 
NI contributions. This would mean  that customers were likely to be financially better off 
being contracted back in to the S2P.
Miss S didnt agree, saying:
She is meticulous  in keeping paperwork, but couldnt find the letter from Royal  London.
She hadnt seen  any analysis  or figures to support Royal  Londons action and couldnt 
see what had happened when she was contracted back  in to the S2P.
She thought  there should  have  been  rules or regulations put in place.
She believes shes suffered a financial  loss and doesnt agree that the Government or 
Royal London can action  an instruction  without  consent from the individual.
The case  has been referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S was contracted  out of SERPS  from 1989 to 2003, after which she was contracted 
back in to the S2P. The Government effectively ended contracting  out in April 2012. Had 
Miss S been outside the S2P at that time,  she would  have been contracted back  in. The 
period in question therefore is 2003  (when Miss S was contracted back in to the S2P)  to 
2012 (when she would have had to contract back in).
Ive seen a copy  of the generic letter sent to all affected customers  in 2004.  The letters 
heading makes  it clear that Miss S would be placed back  into the S2P  unless she said 
otherwise. It explained the process  to be followed if Miss S wished to remain contracted  out 
of the S2P. If so, she had to respond by letter or telephone to Royal  London confirming that 
she wished to remain contracted out of the S2P.  Miss S had a choice;  she could have 
remained invested in the PPP. Royal Londons  letter points out that Miss S could change her 
mind and contract out from,  or contract  in to, the S2P in subsequent years. This would have 
been allowed  until 2012 when the Government ceased contracting out. 
The letter also sets out Royal Londons view that it would be in Miss Ss best interests to 
contract back in to the S2P. It gave two reasons: the level of premiums  paid by the 
Government and its expectations about the future performance of the fund in which Miss S 
was invested.  Based on this, it concluded  it would be beneficial for customers to contract 
back in to the S2P.
Royal London wasnt the only company to recommend contracting  back in to the S2P. In 
April 2003, HSBC decided  to contract  all members  of its pension  funds  automatically  back  in 
to the S2P, unless the customer specifically asked to remain contracted  out. This is a similar 
position and approach to that taken  by Royal London. In 2005, Norwich Union (now  known 
as Aviva) also took the decision to automatically  switch customers back  in to the S2P. It said 
it was taking the responsible approach for our policyholders. 
Ref: DRN46253973I appreciate Miss S didnt explicitly agree to being  contracted back in. However, Im satisfied  
Royal Londons decision  to contract  customers back into S2P was based on reasonable 
assumptions and that it was acting with her best interests in mind. Miss S was given a 
choice which  also could  have been reversed (until  2012), so I think  assuming agreement  
from Miss S unless she told them otherwise wasnt unfair in the circumstances.
Miss S is certain she didnt receive the letter sent in 2004 by Royal  London. Wed  normally  
expect post to arrive at the address  it was sent to. I can see that the letter was sent to the 
address Royal  London  had on file for Miss S. Miss S has confirmed she was living  at that 
address at the time.  So Im satisfied the letter was sent to the right address.  Its possible  
Miss S may have received the letter and forgotten about it. Its also possible the letter didnt 
arrive; but even if it didnt, I dont think  this would be due to an error by Royal London. Its 
unfortunate that Miss S didnt receive  the letter and so she feels she wasnt given a choice, 
but I cant hold Royal London responsible for this.
Overall, Im satisfied Royal London  didnt  do anything wrong by contracting  Miss S back into 
S2P when they didnt  hear back from her within the deadline given.
Its difficult to say whether  Miss S would  have been  better off in retirement  if she had 
remained contracted out. Amongst other  things,  this would depend on her employment 
record and on the performance of the investments which Miss Ss contributions  were  paid 
into. That said, there are some trends  we can consider. Over the period in question, its 
generally accepted that investment returns were worse than expected.  And better life 
expectancy increased  the cost of providing  a personal pension  that would be better  than that 
provided by SERPS  or the S2P. Additionally, the Government reduced the level of rebate  on 
NI contributions, so the value of contributions being paid in to Miss Ss plan would have 
reduced. And her PPP would no doubt  have been adversely affected by the financial crash  
of 2008. Although its not possible to be certain,  I think its likely that Miss S would have been 
worse off had she continued to be contracted out. 
However, even if comparisons showed that Miss S would  have  been  better  off if she had 
remained contracted out, this doesnt mean Royal London did anything  wrong and would 
need to compensate her for any losses.  In 2004,  Royal London reasonably  thought 
customers would be better off contracting back in and gave them a choice if they wanted to 
remain contracted out. It wouldnt  be fair to hold Royal London responsible if these  
reasonable assumptions at the time - in hindsight - didnt work out in Miss Ss favour.
Im also conscious that Miss S is concerned about what has happened  to the contributions  
she thought were going to the Royal London PPP. As Miss S was contracted back into the 
S2P, these contributions have been  made into Miss Ss state  pension.  So her state  pension  
will be greater  than it otherwise would have been.
In her complaint Miss S says that she wrote  six letters to Royal  London to get answers to the 
questions shed asked  in January 2019. Ive considered whether this was acceptable.  
Notwithstanding there  was some initial confusion over which  policy Miss S was referring to in 
her letter, I can see that Royal London wrote to Miss S several  times  in February and on 26 
March. It wrote on 15 February saying it would  take a couple  of weeks  to gather the 
information required from Royal Londons  actuarial department. I dont think  a period of two 
weeks is unreasonable in this instance. 
The key point of Miss S being contracted back in to the S2P became clear in Royal Londons 
letter of 25 February.  A couple of weeks later Miss S asked for more detail and Royal 
Ref: DRN46253974London responded on 26 March. This focussed  on the 2004 letter which  Miss S says she 
didnt receive; more detail was then given in Royal Londons final response letter in April 
2019. Royal London agreed that it hadnt answered Miss Ss queries well enough and 
apologised for the delay  and inconvenience. Miss S indicated that shed spent nearly £3 on 
postage on the numerous letters  shed sent.  Royal London sent her a cheque for £25; whilst 
Royal London indicated  this was to cover  postage,  I think theres an element  of 
compensation in this payment which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
As I mentioned earlier, the crux of this complaint is that Miss S feels  that the decision about 
whether to contract back in to the S2P has been  taken  out of her hands. But taking 
everything into account, I think Royal London acted  reasonably at the time it contracted 
Miss S back in to the S2P and did so with her best interests in mind.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Geoff Pearson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4625397