K820x#14complaint
Mr Z is unhappy  about the delays following his storm  claim  under  his home insurance policy.  
The policy is provided by U K Insurance Limited.
background
Mr Z made a claim following damage to his roof tiles and chimney. UKI appointed loss 
adjusters to inspect  and validate the claim.  Upon inspection the loss adjuster said the 
damage had been  caused by wear and tear and not by a storm or any other insured event.  
The claim was declined.  Mr Z said the damage wasnt properly inspected and he never saw 
a report from the adjuster.  Mr Z took time off work for an appointment that never took place 
and said the £50 UKI gave him as compensation isnt enough. Mr Z brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the photos provided  by UKI wouldve 
been useful to the assessment of the roof. He checked weather reports  and couldnt find any 
storm conditions around the time of the claim.  Our investigator said UKI acted reasonably  
when it declined the storm claim. UKI said Mr Z was verbally told at the time of the loss 
adjusters visit that the claim wouldnt be paid, so he wasnt  notified  again later in writing. 
Mr Z said he wasnt told and only found out when he chased  up UKI to find out what  was 
going on. Our investigator accepted UKIs position  that it didnt write because  Mr Z had been 
told at the time the claim was declined. He said this was reasonable as was the £50 for the 
missed appointment.  Mr Z didnt accept this and asked for his complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at storm damage cases we ask three  questions:
were there storm conditions on or around  the date of the claim?
is the damage consistent with storm damage?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer  to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed.
Ive looked at the weather  reports from around  the time of the claim and no storm conditions 
occurred in the lead up to the claim. So the answer  to the first question is no. Based on this 
I think UKI acted reasonably when it declined to deal with the claim. 
UKI said that the damage was caused by wear and tear and produced  photos  to show 
cracked and missing tiles. This further highlighted that the damage wasnt consistent  with 
storm. I understand Mr Zs point that no closer inspection took place but the photo  images  
give a good indication of the condition of the roof in this case. I think  the evidence  indicates 
that UKI acted fairly.
In relation to the handling of the complaint its accepted by UKI that it didnt write  to Mr Z to 
confirm the claim had been declined. UKI said the loss adjuster  told Mr Z at the time he 
visited that the claim wasnt covered. The records produced suggest Mr Z was informed at 
Ref: DRN42173962the time but I think he reasonably expected to receive confirmation in writing. I dont think 
UKI did anything wrong in terms of the evidence  but I think it might consider how it 
communicates with customers following a claim being declined. In relation to the missed 
appointment and the offer of £50 UKI made  to Mr Z I think that was dealt with at the time and 
was a reasonable outcome in the circumstances.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.  
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4217396