K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy  with how Advantage Insurance Company Limited  dealt with a claim he 
wished to make under  his motor insurance  policy.
background
Mr Fs car was hit by a third-party whilst it was parked  on a street overnight.  The third party 
left his contact details and told Mr F that he accepted liability  for the accident. Unfortunately, 
the damage to the vehicle meant that Mr F couldnt drive the vehicle home, which  was over 
250 miles away. Mr F contacted his own insurer, Advantage, on the morning after the 
accident (Saturday)  to notify  it of the incident  and to obtain a hire car. Advantage passed his 
details to an accident management company  who Ill call company B  in order  to make 
those arrangements. 
Company B called Mr F and told him that it couldnt arrange a hire car for him on that day  
and it would be Monday at the earliest. Mr F was unhappy about this and contacted 
Advantage to complain. Advantage said it couldnt do anything about this timeframe and that 
it had a 48 working hour expectation for the provision of hire car. 
It did apologise to Mr F for the time he had spent on phone calls and for keeping him on hold 
while calls were made to company B  a payment of £30 was offered as compensation for 
this. Unhappy with this response, Mr F brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator reviewed  the matter  but didnt uphold the complaint. He looked at the terms 
and conditions of the insurance  policy and said Mr F wasnt entitled to a courtesy  car if his 
vehicle was considered beyond economical  repair. So Advantage werent  responsible for the 
time taken  to provide a hire car. He also listened  to the first call Mr F made to Advantage 
and said Mr F wasnt provided a guarantee that a hire car would  be given to him on that day. 
So, he didnt  agree that he had been  misled about the time frame for getting  a car. 
Mr F didnt  agree with the investigators view and felt that he had not properly investigated 
his complaint as he hadnt received all the telephone  calls he had with Advantage. He 
therefore asked  for an ombudsman  to review the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. I appreciate that Mr F feels very strongly about this matter and so he will be 
disappointed with this outcome. Ill explain my reasons for reaching this decision.
Advantage has provided a copy of the terms and conditions which applied to Mr Fs policy.  
Having looked  at the document  I can see that a courtesy car is only provided while the 
vehicle is being  repaired  the policy doesnt include cover  for a hire car if the vehicle is 
considered to be a total loss. From what weve been told, Mr Fs car was believed to be 
beyond economical  repair  in other words a total loss - and therefore Advantage didnt have 
to provide a hire vehicle. 
Ive listened to the initial phone call made to Advantage and in that call Mr F was told a hire 
car could  be provided  if the third party accepted liability.  As mentioned  above,  the policy 
doesnt provide  hire cars in this scenario so it would seem Advantage wanted  to make sure it 
Ref: DRN49267522would get the cost of the hire back from the third party before it agreed  to offer this service. 
In the same  conversation, Advantage agreed to pass Mr Fs details  to company B who would  
make the arrangements  for the hire vehicle once  the acceptance of liability had been 
received. No guarantees were given  about timeframes for the hire car in that call. So Im 
satisfied that Advantage didnt mislead Mr F on this point.
Mr F wasnt happy that our investigator  hadnt listened to all the calls he had made. As 
Mr Fs complaint point relates to what he says he was told in the initial call, I can understand 
why the investigator  may not have  felt this was necessary. But I also appreciate Mr F may 
feel something has been missed by not obtaining these  calls. In order to allay his concerns, I 
have obtained  recordings of the calls with Advantage  on both the Saturday  and the following 
Monday. 
From listening to these calls it is clear that Mr F was aware, within  a matter of hours of his 
first conversation with Advantage,  that a hire car wouldnt be arranged until after the 
weekend. I appreciate this was extremely  inconvenient  for Mr F  especially as he was quite 
some distance from his home and without any other transport  to get back.  And I realise this 
was likely to be even  more frustrating for Mr F as he wasnt  to blame for the damage to his 
vehicle. Unfortunately, there is always a level of inconvenience when making insurance 
claims  more so when the damage is such that the vehicle cant be used. Im sure it would 
have been far easier for Mr F to have received another car on the Saturday and I can 
understand his disappointment that this didnt happen. But based on everything Ive seen 
and been told, I dont  find that Advantage is responsible for any delay.  
While I dont uphold this complaint, Im pleased to see that Advantage has accepted that it 
could have done more to prevent Mr F from having  to wait on the phone while  it contacted 
company B  it has offered  to pay £30 for this. I dont think  that Advantage needs to do 
anything more.      
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4926752