K820x#14complaint
Miss G says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading  as Sunny irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about one instalment loan Sunny provided to Miss G in June 2017. 
Miss G borrowed £200 and she was due to repay  it in six monthly instalments and the 
highest instalment  payment was around £55. As I understand it, there is a balance still 
outstanding on the loan and Miss G is making  repayments through a payment plan. 
/;
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Gs complaint and thought Sunnys checks  for the loan 
went far enough. Miss G disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss G could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  
checks might be reasonable  and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Gs complaint. Having  done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Sunny has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving  any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Miss G about her employment status  and she confirmed she 
was employed and had a monthly income of £2,200. Sunny says it also searched Miss Gs 
credit file, but it hasnt  provided the results  of its search. But Ive seen  a copy  of her credit file 
Ref: DRN42580082and there  werent  any recent adverse entries  like defaults or county court  judgements 
(CCJs) recorded on it at the time the loan was taken out.
The loan was Miss Gs first one with Sunny  and so she had no history of borrowing 
previously from this lender. And even though she had to make  six monthly  repayments,  the 
highest repayment would have appeared affordable based on the information  she declared 
to Sunny.  And there wasnt  anything in the information Miss G provided which would have  
given Sunny cause  for concern, So I think it was reasonable  of Sunny to have relied on what 
Miss G gave  it. 
I think these factors had an impact  of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
Sunny to carry out. Given these, I think the checks Sunny  carried  out before lending the loan 
went far enough and I wouldnt  have expected it at this stage to undertake  any more in-depth  
checks. 
The information Miss G declared to Sunny  at the time of the loans may not have been  an 
accurate reflection of her financial circumstances, but I think Sunny was entitled  to rely on 
that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what  Sunny knew about     
Miss G, I wouldnt have  expected Sunny to verify the information Miss G gave it. This 
therefore means, I cant say that its done something wrong in lending  Miss G this loan.
I appreciate that my findings  are likely  to disappoint Miss G, but I hope my explanation will 
help her understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Miss Gs complaint and make no award against Elevate Credit  International 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4258008