K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that the service she received from Santander UK Plc (Santander)  with 
regard to her instructions  to them to make an international payment to her account in 
Jamaica, fell short  of that which she expected to receive.
background
On the 3 October 2018 Mrs S went into a branch of Santander to make  an international 
payment to her account in Jamaica. On the 5 October 2018  Mrs S realised the funds hadnt 
been received  in Jamaica and so contacted  Santander who said that the Jamaican account 
details Mrs S had given had been  confirmed by her when she authorised  the transaction  
using chip and pin. They  said there was no evidence of any error on their part. Santander 
tried to recall  the funds  but that was declined. 
When Mrs S raised a complaint Santander  discovered  that the recall had been processed  
incorrectly and so a second recall was attempted. Mrs S was told it could take up to 
20 working days which concerned her as she was due to travel to Jamaica on 
3 November 2018 and wanted  to make sure the funds were  available when she arrived.  So 
Mrs S sent an additional sum of money from another savings  account  she had, to make  sure 
she had access to money when she arrived in Jamaica.
Santander didnt  accept they had done  anything wrong and as Mrs S was unhappy with that 
an investigator from this service looked  into the complaint. They found Santander hadnt 
treated Mrs S fairly and recommended that they pay her £200 to compensate her for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Mrs S disagreed with our investigators  view and so the matter  has been  passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decisions  are based on the available evidence and where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is more likely to have  happened in light of that evidence and the 
wider circumstances.  
 
Like our investigator I am unable to say who was at fault for the incorrect  account 
information being provided in the branch because there isnt enough evidence  to settle the 
point either  way. But I do note that Mrs S has said that this incident wasnt the first time she 
had made  an international payment in the branch and so I would have expected her to have 
been fully aware  of the process and the details  Santander required.
Equally, I would also expect Santander to have confirmed the international payment details 
with Mrs S before sending  her payment and I dont think  that relying purely on the chip and 
pin authorisation is sufficient evidence in itself to confirm that this was done. It is indicative of 
Mrs S being  asked to check the details however.
So I cant fairly say that Santander have done  anything wrong  here.
Ref: DRN46456612But, the evidence  shows that there was a period of around four weeks where Mrs S wasnt 
sure if her funds would be recovered and I can accept that that would have caused her 
significant distress. And Santander  fell into error  as they didnt action the recall process 
correctly the first time,  which if they had, it would have reduced the time it took to return her 
money and would have reduced  the impact  upon her.
What I need to decide is whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt  with 
Mrs S. I do think Santander could have done  more to action the recall quicker and as they 
didnt it left Mrs S very concerned for a short period of time.  So I think  it fair that they 
recompense her. 
I have thought about the £200 offer of compensation Santander  made to Mr S and I agree 
with our investigator that this is reasonable. It is in line with the moderate awards this service  
would make for distress  and inconvenience in circumstances like this, and I think  it is fair.
I know Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same  conclusion 
as the investigator  and for similar  reasons.  So Im going to order that Santander pay Mrs S 
£200.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold the complaint  against  Santander  UK Plc and direct 
that they pay to Mrs S £200 in compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4645661