K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mrs P bought the policy over the phone  in 2001 at the same time as taking out a credit card.
I issued a provisional decision saying I wasnt planning to uphold  the complaint. Neither FICL 
nor Mrs P provided  any further comments or evidence. So my decision remains  the same. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint because:
She took out the credit  card in 1997. So shed had it for several  years  before agreeing  to 
take out the PPI. So I think FICL  made Mrs P aware that she had a choice about  buying 
the PPI, and that she chose to take it.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P so it didnt have to check if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs P doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. So I dont  think  better information 
wouldve stopped  her buying  it.
Ive thought about the regulators rules around  high levels of undisclosed commission  
and profit share. But these only apply where  the complaint is about a lender. In this case, 
FICL was not the lender, but the insurer. So I dont think  these rules apply.
Ive taken into account Mrs Ps comments,  including what  shes said about having a medical
condition when the PPI was sold. But these  points dont change  my conclusion. Mrs P didnt
mention this when  she initially  complained, so I asked her for written confirmation from her
doctor of the condition  and when it was diagnosed, so I could judge whether or not it
wouldve made a difference  when she took out the PPI. But Mrs P has not provided this, 
despite being given ample time to do so.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4392543