K822xcomplaint
Mr N complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited  wont accept that the plumbers it instructed 
to repair  a leak following  a claim under  his home  insurance policy,  caused a leak and 
subsequent damage to Mr Ns kitchen.
background 
For ease, in my decision I will refer to Tesco when talking about their agents or 
representatives.
Mr N suffered a leak in his bathroom  in 2016, which  led to his kitchen being damaged. 
Tesco accepted  the claim and instructed a plumbing  firm, amongst others, to carry out the 
remedial work. During the repairs, the plumbers  had to remove  the kitchen sink by 
disconnecting the tap from the water  pipes. 
About three months after the remedial work  was completed,  a surveyor  from Tesco  attended 
the address to review the work carried out. They  found a slow leak in the pipework under the 
sink, which  had caused damage  to the cupboard where water had soaked into it. 
Mr N contacted the plumbing firm who carried out the previous work.  The plumber attended 
and said the leak was on an elbow joint where the hot water pipe is connected to a flexi pipe 
leading to the tap. He fixed the leaking joint for free, but claimed that it wasnt  a joint which  
he had worked on when he was last at the address. So, the plumbing firm didnt replace the 
damaged cupboard. 
Mr N spoke to Tesco,  asking that it replace the damaged  cupboard, as he believed it was the 
actions of its plumber  that caused the leak and damage. Tesco  disagreed, saying that its 
plumber hadnt  worked on that joint and said the leak was due to a faulty olive in the 
compression joint. So, it wasnt liable for the costs of repairing the damage and Mr N would 
need to make a new claim. 
Mr N and Tesco entered discussions lasting several months around the cause of the leak.  
To try and resolve the dispute, Tesco said they would send an independent  surveyor to the 
house with the original  plumber to assess the disputed accounts and report  on his findings.
Mr N disputed the findings in the report, so in October 2018  Mr N wrote  a complaint letter to 
Tesco. It entered into further discussions  with Mr N. But, ultimately, the complaint couldnt  be 
resolved and so Mr N brought asked us to consider his complaint.  
I sent Mr N and Tesco my provisional decision on 12 February 2020. I explained that I 
thought Tesco hadnt acted fairly in addressing Mr Ns concerns and so they should 
compensate Mr N for the damage and inconvenience  caused. Ive copied my findings  from 
my provisional decision below. 
my provisional findings
In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And I intend  to uphold  the complaint, as I 
dont agree with Tescos  view that their plumber didnt cause the leak under Mr Ns sink.
Ref: DRN48633282Whilst I understand that Mr N would  like me to make  findings  on several specific areas, 
including where  exactly the leak occurred, I dont  feel that this is necessary in this case. 
My role is to assess whether Tescos view that the damage under Mr Ns sink wasnt  as a 
result of a mistake made  by their plumber  is reasonable.  The plumbers were working on 
behalf of Tesco when they completed the remedial  works after the first claim. So, I think 
Tesco are responsible for any subsequent  problems  arising from that work. It seems Tesco 
also accept this, but they dont think their plumber was responsible. 
I can see that the dispute over the cause  of the leak went on for quite  some  time. So, I think  
it was fair for Tesco to suggest an independent surveyor attend the property  with the original  
plumber and discuss what he did. The surveyor could then report  on whether the actions  of 
that plumber could have led to the leak.
However, on reading the report  from the independent surveyor  I have some concerns. 
The report  states   The customer has then taken advise from numerous people  who have 
apparently all advised him that the tightening  of the flexi hose pipe would cause damage to 
the compression joint on the other  end of the elbow. The whole point  of todays exercise  was 
to physically prove that this is just not true. Therefore, I think  its likely that the aim of the 
surveyor wasnt to independently assess the plumbers account  as Tesco  had said.  But to 
disprove Mr Ns argument. So, I dont think it was fair to tell Mr N the purpose of the report  
was for an independent  assessment, when   from what I can see - it wasnt.  
In his report, the surveyor questioned why Mr N hadnt noticed the leak for approximately  
three months, as he felt Mr N would have accessed  the cupboard and the water  would have 
puddled on the kitchen floor. Mr N said that the leak was a slow drip and was being 
absorbed into the cupboard, causing  the damage. He denied  it had puddled  at any point. 
I havent seen  any evidence that there had been  any puddling. No puddling was noted  on 
the plumbers  first visit to the house to fix the leak. And, the joint had been  repaired by the 
time it was seen by the surveyor. Mr N also said that the cupboard was empty, as he was 
waiting for some further repairs  to be done. So, Im not persuaded that Mr N was aware  of 
the leak any earlier than he reported it to Tesco.
The report  goes on to say that its possible to remove and refit the flexi pipe without 
disturbing the compression union  at the other end of the joint. And that if it was damaged the 
leak would  be instant  so the plumber would  have been aware of it.
I think this is the crux of the complaint. The plumber and surveyor  have supplied their 
account and report  of what they say happened. Mr N supplied reports from other  builders,  
some of whom have based their reports on photographs and discussions with Mr N. He also 
supplied a report from the builder who installed the kitchen three years earlier, saying that he 
had checked the joints and no parts were  damaged.  
Where the evidence is incomplete  or conflicting, I need to decide whats most likely to have 
happened. Mr Ns kitchen had been installed  for roughly three  years. Work had last been 
carried out on the kitchen in January 2017. As no damage or leak was noted at that time,  
I think its unlikely that there was a leak prior to the works being completed in January 2017.  
So, I think the leak occurred at some point either during or after the works were  completed.  
I can see that the plumber and surveyor are adamant that removal of one nut wouldnt have 
affected the other. Whilst I appreciate  their expertise in this field, Im not persuaded that a 
plumber working  on a small plumbing  joint, couldnt  have caused  movement to the other  end 
of the joint resulting in a leak. I have seen  that Tesco have said in one of their e-mails  - It is 
Ref: DRN48633283fair to suggest that these works, albeit unlikely, could disturb the pipework so I dont think it 
would be reasonable to categorically state  that this would never  be the case.
There have been  many discussions by both sides on exactly which  part of the joint was 
worked on and which  part leaked.  I think its reasonable to say that, although the plumber 
may or may not have  worked on the specific joint which subsequently leaked, they were 
working in the general area of the leak. And, on pipework connected to the area of the leak. 
The leak only occurred after this area had been  worked on and it hadnt  been leaking 
beforehand. I dont  think is a coincidence and I havent seen an adequate  explanation as to 
how the joint would suddenly fail having been fine for three  years  previously. And Tesco  
havent explained how the plumber  could have attached the pipes for the sink without  
disturbing the leaking joint. Based on this, I think it most likely that the actions of the 
plumber, when removing  and re-installing the sink in February, caused the leak.  
In February 2018  Tesco  said in an e-mail to Mr N - the damage does not appear consistent 
with a leak that has been on-going for approximately 12 weeks. When  the surveyor  attended 
Mr Ns house with the plumber, he created a report for the purpose  of assessing the liability  
of Mr Ns claim under his insurance  policy. This report doesnt make any mention that the 
damage wasnt consistent with a small leak over 12 weeks.  I would  have expected that if the 
surveyor thought  the damage wasnt consistent with a slow leak over several  weeks  then 
this would be included  in his report.  This comment seems to be the opinion  of the claims 
handler from Tesco having reviewed images  of the damage and not that of an expert. 
Mr N supplied a letter from a builder. Its unclear whether he physically saw the damage or 
made his comments based on photographs,  however he did give his opinion. He said that 
its very difficult  to say how long it would  take to cause the damage  Mr N suffered. 
Noting that it would depend  on the size of the leak. The builder did say that, in his opinion,  a 
slow leak could lead to the damage, but it would take many  weeks. Based on the evidence 
available, I dont think Tesco can say that the damage isnt consistent  with a slow water  leak 
occurring over several weeks. And this reinforces my view that its most likely their plumber 
caused the leak when he carried out the original repair.  
So overall, I dont  think that Tesco have acted  reasonably in assessing Mr Ns concerns 
based on all the evidence available to them. I think it should have accepted the damage  was 
caused by the plumber  who carried out the repairs following  Mr Ns original claim. 
Tesco have  already offered to pay £150  as gesture of good will to contribute towards 
repairing the damage. They later said that their offer would cover the cost of a cupboard unit 
and the labour to fit it. However, Mr N supplied evidence to show  its likely that the worktop  
and upstand will also need replacing  and hes provided a £400  estimate  for the overall cost 
of the works. 
I think its reasonable that Tesco cover  the total cost Mr N is likely to incur. And Tesco have 
already said in an e-mail that Mr Ns quote  was reasonable  for the overall  cost of the works. 
So, I think thats a fair settlement figure.
I have then considered  the affect that this complaint has had on Mr N. Hes gone to great 
lengths to try and argue  his case in this complaint, having to go back  and forth to Tesco  over 
a lengthy period. Mr N has taken  considerable time to write his own reports, as well as 
engaging third parties to supply evidence for his claim. Tesco  have denied any wrongdoing 
for nearly  three years  in this case adding to Mr Ns frustration and upset. Mr N will still need 
to go through  the disruption  of having the remedial works completed.  And I can see that this 
complaint following his claim has caused  Mr N considerable distress and inconvenience, 
Ref: DRN48633284mainly because of how Tesco  have considered it. For these reasons, I think Tesco should 
pay Mr N £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.  
the response to my provisional  decision
Both Mr N and Tesco accepted my provisional  decision, so the case has been passed back 
to me to reach a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
I was pleased to see that both sides accepted my provisional decision.  That means I have 
no reason to depart from the findings Ive already reached in this case. So, my decision 
remains the same.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that I uphold the 
complaint. I require Tesco Underwriting Limited  to;
Pay Mr N £400 in compensation for the damage caused by its agent.
Pay Mr N £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4863328