K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2009. 
Mr C says 1st Class Credit Union Limited  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Due to the time thats passed since this policy was sold, theres some uncertainty  about the 
level of cover that the policy  offered.  I say this because theres an indication that the level of 
cover may have been accident and sickness only, as 1st Class Credit Union Limited in their 
submissions to our Service made  reference to this level of cover.  
1st Class Credit  Union Limited have since told me that at the time of sale they offered a 
choice of accident and sickness cover or accident,  sickness and unemployment cover 
(ASU)  which Mr C was sold. However, Ive not seen any supporting  evidence  that there 
would have been a choice  between  the two levels of cover.  I say this because the paperwork 
from the sale shows two options for PPI  to accept or decline ASU. But I havent seen any 
evidence that there  would have been an option  to choose between  the level of cover. 
I also tried to contact the underwriter of this policy to definitively establish  the correct  level of 
cover, but unfortunately their records are incomplete. So, Ive considered  that in this case,  
its likely  the only level of cover available was ASU as it appears from the application form, 
that this was the only option. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think 1st Class Credit Union Limited made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out 
the PPI and he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he may not 
remember this.
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mr Cs loan application form. In the section for 
PPI, headed Application for Payment Protection, theres a sub heading  that says 
Your options. Underneath this theres an option  to take PPI or decline PPI. A tick 
has been placed next to the option to take PPI and Mr C has also signed separately  
in this section.  So I think that the PPI was presented as optional and that Mr C chose 
to take it out. 
Mr C has complained that he wasnt shown a quote for the loan without PPI. But the 
loan application  he signed was dated 3 February 2009. The actual loan agreement 
showing the costs  that Mr C would be paying was signed on 4 February  2009.  So      
I think the cost of the PPI was added to the loan agreement after Mr C completed  his 
application. 
Ref: DRN497834221st Class Credit  Union Limited  didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr C got the information he 
needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information 1st Class Credit Union Limited gave  Mr C about the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like 
he wanted this type of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover - so it would have  been useful for him if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information  about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said - including  what hes said about the application 
form for a different loan. But my decision deals with the loan taken in 2009 and it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to comment on the other allegations made  about  loan ending 6560. 
Ive also considered what Mr C has said about not needing PPI because of his sick pay 
entitlement. But this policy  could have  paid out for up to 24 months, which  is for longer than 
Mr C would have received sick pay. So I still think that he could  have found  the policy useful 
and these points  dont change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr C paid on his policy  and whether 1st Class 
Credit Union Limited treated him unfairly. 
1st Class Credit  Union Limited has told us that the commission for Mr Cs policy  was less 
than half of what he paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how 1st Class Credit Union 
Limited has been working this out and based  on what weve seen it looks  like its right      
Mr Cs commission  was less than half the cost of the policy. 
As thats  the case, I dont  think it needed  to tell him about the commission   so I dont think 
1st Class Credit  Union Limited treated him unfairly.  This means  it doesnt  need to pay Mr C 
back any of the commission he paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4978342