K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about Mr Cs buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage with National Westminster Bank 
Plc. He says that he was refused car finance due to missed payment markers NatWest 
placed on his credit file. NatWest offered  him £100  compensation  for some administrative 
errors about his correspondence address, but otherwise rejected the complaint.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 8 July 2020, I explained why I wasnt minded  to 
uphold Mr Cs complaint.  A copy of my provisional decisions attached below, and forms part 
of this final decision. 
Mr C has responded to say that whilst he accepts lenders have a duty to record factually 
correct information,  in his case it happened because NatWest recorded his correspondence 
address incorrectly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Id not persuaded to 
change my mind on how the compliant should  fairly  be concluded. 
Theres no dispute that the missed  payments markers NatWest  placed on Mr Cs credit file 
about his BTL mortgage were accurate. Its likely  those markers will have played a part in 
the difficulties  Mr C then had in obtaining car finance. But as Ive not seen Mr Cs credit  file, I 
cant exclude the possibility that there  was other  information on it that also contributed to that 
situation.
NatWest has paid Mr C fair compensation for the mistakes it made.  Mr C still has the option  
of adding a notice  of correction to his credit file providing some context to the 
circumstances in which the mortgage payments were missed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint or make any order or award  against National Westminster Bank Plc. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41015522CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  Mr Cs buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage with National Westminster Bank Plc. He 
says that he was refused car finance due to missed  payment markers  NatWest placed  on his credit 
file. NatWest offered him £100 compensation for some administrative errors about  his 
correspondence address,  but otherwise rejected the complaint.
background
In what  follows, Ive summarised events in rather less detail than has been  presented, using my own 
words. No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was 
material to the outcome  of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our enabling  
legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus  on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-
tracked by matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion  peripheral or, in some 
instances, have little or no impact on the broader outcome. One reason I have left out a lot of the 
detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumer when  my decision is published. Another reason is 
because part of what Mr C is unhappy about lies outside the remit  of the service.
Mr Cs mortgage payments were paid by direct  debit from a current account also held with NatWest. 
That account  was closed in early December  2018; this meant the direct debit mandate  ended  and the 
payments due in December 2018 and January 2019 werent made. Mr C contacted  the bank by 
phone on 11 February 2019, and made a card payment to cover the two missed instalments. Regular  
monthly payments also resumed in February by direct debit, presumably from Mr Cs new current  
account 
Mr C then complained  that due to NatWest having recorded the missed payments  on his credit file, 
hed been turned down  for car finance. NatWest initially  rejected the complaint,  but its initial response 
mis recorded  some of the information  about  Mr Cs address.  It issued a follow-up  response offering  
Mr C £100 compensation.  Mr C referred his complaint to us, asking for compensation to be increased 
to £500.
When our investigator  began  to look into it, the focus was directed towards the timing  and 
circumstances of the current  account closure, and whether Mr C would have known  the direct debit 
had been stopped. In January 2020, having established that NatWest,  rather than Mr C himself, had 
closed the current account  (it had issued a notice to close letter  on 14 November 2018) the 
investigator recommended  NatWest pay a further £175, making £275 in all.
Mr C agreed with the investigators recommendations; it explained  that the circumstances in which the 
current account was closed had been the subject of a separate complaint, on which  it had issued its 
final response in March  2019. The investigator noted this, but also observed that the account  had 
actually been closed before the 60-day notice period  had expired. He said that because  of this, 
NatWest should still pay Mr C the extra £175.
NatWest asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Ref: DRN41015523Were not the regulator  of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal  processes or how 
they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual 
disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the 
courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides  instructions on how we investigate a complaint. 
We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference  from anyone else.
Its up to us to decide what evidence we need to decide a complaint, where we should  get it from,  and 
what weight we should  attach to it once we have  it. Its also our judgement to make on when we have 
everything we need to reach a fair conclusion.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive come to a different conclusion  from the 
investigator about how this complaint should fairly  be resolved. As this represents a change in 
outcome, this provisional decision gives both parties an opportunity to comment before my decision is 
finalised.
Its apparent to me that in pursuit of the truth about how and why the current account was closed, the 
focus has moved away from the core complaint;  that is, the reporting of missed  payments on Mr Cs 
credit file and the possibility that these caused him to be refused credit elsewhere.  I can see why this 
might have happened; it was after all the closure of the account that prompted  the cessation of the 
direct debit mandate for the mortgage payments.
The problem is, however, that the closure  of the current account  was the subject of a separate  
complaint, on which NatWest issued a separate final response, dated 8 March 2019.  A final response 
from a business gives a consumer six months in which to refer a complaint to us; if they dont  so 
within that time limit, then generally speaking,  we wont have any remit to consider the complaint, 
unless the business  allows us to.
Mr C had two separate and discrete complaints running with NatWest in the Spring of 2019; one 
about the missed payment  markers on his credit  file, the other about  the enforced  closure of his 
current account. He referred the former to us; he didnt  refer the latter. Indeed, we only found out 
about the final response on the current account  complaint when NatWest  sent us a copy as part of its 
defence against the investigators recommendation that it pay Mr C more compensation.
For us to investigate the closure of the current account,  two things would  need to happen. Mr C would 
need to authorise us to create  a separate complaint to look into it, but more importantly, NatWest 
would need to consent  to us investigating a complaint that was referred to us more than six months 
after its final response  had been issued. 
If Mr C wants  to go down that route, he should  let the investigator know,  and we can put the wheels in 
motion, including finding out whether NatWest would consent to us investigating the complaint  despite 
it having  been  referred  outside the time limits. Meanwhile, in the rest of this provisional  decision, I 
focus on the complaint that was referred to us; that is, the missed payment markers on Mr Cs credit  
file.
The starting  point here is that lenders  have an obligation  to report  factually  accurate information  about  
the conduct of accounts to credit reference agencies. Theres  no reason for me to suspect that hasnt 
happened here; Mr C did fail to make his mortgage payments for December  2018 and January  2019 
when they were  due. Mr C hasnt  provided  his credit  file, so I havent seen the entries  NatWest 
recorded, but theres no suggestion from either party  that the entries were  anything other than 
factually accurate.
Theres no cause for me to conclude that NatWest posted incorrect data or treated  Mr C unfairly  by 
posting it. NatWest has paid Mr C £100 compensation for some administrative failings; I dont 
consider it needs to do anything further. If Mr C has not cashed the cheque, but would still like to 
accept the payment in full and final settlement  of this complaint, he should let NatWest know so that it 
can issue him with a new payment.
Ref: DRN41015524my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties, is that I dont intend  to uphold 
this complaint or make any order or award  against National Westminster Bank Plc
. 
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 8 August 2020, or sooner  if both parties confirm 
theyve said and provided  everything they want in response  to this provisional decision. Neither party 
need repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4101552