K821x#15complaint
Mrs S says Stagemount Limited  trading as Quid Market lent to her irresponsibly and did not 
provide correct figures when she wanted to repay  all of her outstanding loans.
background
This complaint is about 5 loans Quid Market  provided to Mrs S between February 2014 and 
May 2014. Mrs Ss loans  were for between £200  and £500. 
Mrs S fell into financial difficulty  and arranged a chargeback with her bank for the repayment 
of loans 3 and 4. She was unable to repay  loan 5 and fell into arrears.
From what  I can see, Mrs S asked  Quid  Market  for a settlement figure  for her debts in 
around August  2015 as she was arranging  a secured home  loan to consolidate  her finances. 
Quid Market told Mrs S that the figure  required to repay  all her debts was £995.69. Mrs S 
paid this amount  to the business  with the proceeds of the loan on 24 August 2015.
In September  2017 Mrs S complained to Quid Market that she had been given unaffordable 
loans. In its final response letter Quid Market agreed  to refund all interest and charges 
incurred on loan 5 but explained that this would  be set off against  the outstanding  balance 
for loan 3. It appears  that when  Quid Market  gave Mrs S the figures  to settle  her debt this 
didnt include the balance outstanding  on loan 3. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Ss complaint in part and thought Quid  Market shouldnt  have 
given Mrs S loan 4 or loan 5 given her borrowing history. He also thought that Quid  Market 
had made  an error in not telling Mrs S the amount outstanding for loan 3 in August 2015. He 
thought that this had caused Mrs S upset and that Quid  Market should pay Mrs S some 
compensation.
Quid Market didnt agree with the adjudicators view and in particular said it was being 
unfairly penalised for the failure to provide Mrs S with the settlement  information. It said that 
the chargeback  was deliberately erroneously used  by Mrs S and it did not know  that the 
chargeback had been requested until several  months after the repayment.
 As the complaint hasnt been resolved it has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Quid Market needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN41937102But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quid Market should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quid Market  was required to establish 
whether Mrs S could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant industry  regulations define sustainable
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ss complaint. 
Quid Market asked Mrs S for information about  her income and expenditure and it carried  
out credit  checks and verified banking and employment information. 
For loans one to three,  given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time and her history  with Quid Market, I dont think  it wouldve been  
proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. From what  I can see, there wasnt anything in the information Mrs S provided 
or the information Quid Market shouldve been aware  of, which  meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what Mrs S was saying. So I cant say Quid  Market was 
wrong to have provided loans one to three. Mrs S hasnt disagreed  with this and so I dont 
think I need to say any more about  these loans.
At the point of loan 4 I think the business should have looked more  closely  at Mrs Ss 
finances given  her borrowing pattern. By loan 4, Mrs S had been borrowing consistently and 
her borrowing had been steadily increasing.  This was her fourth  loan in just under three 
months. Mrs S asked for loan 4 a week after loan 3 was repaid.
Ref: DRN41937103Looking at Mrs Ss borrowing history up to this point I can see that she repaid all her loans 
but then immediately asked to borrow again.  So Quid  Market ought to have realised  it was 
more likely than not Mrs S was having  to borrow further to cover the hole repaying her 
previous loan was leaving  in her finances  and that Mrs S was not sustainably repaying  the 
credit given the increasing amounts  requested. Mrs Ss borrowing pattern was at odds  with 
the amount of disposable income  she had declared.  If Quid  Market had carried out further 
checks at the point of loan 4 it would have seen that this loan was unsustainable for Mrs S 
as she had significant short term borrowing elsewhere.
I dont think that Quid  Market knew at the time of granting loan 4 that the repayment for loan 
3 was subject  to a chargeback. It seems that this information was notified to the business  on 
17 September 2014 according to Quid Markets  notes.  So I havent taken this into account. 
However, the fact that Mrs S was unable to meet the repayment for loan 3 further supports 
my decision  that by the point of loan 4 the lending was unsustainable. 
Mrs S also charged back the repayment for loan 4 and was able to take out loan 5 before the 
business was made  aware of what had happened. It its final response letter Quid  Market  has 
agreed to refund all interest and charges for loan 5 on the basis  that it should  have done 
more to verify Mrs Ss financial circumstances.  I agree that this loan should not have been 
given to Mrs S given the increase in her borrowing without further checks. I think it is likely  
that those further  checks would  have  revealed the problems  she was having.    
So I think that Quid Market shouldnt have given Mrs S loan 4 or loan 5. 
Moving on to the issue with the chargeback, the business has said that it wasnt  aware of the 
chargebacks until some  months later. From my review of the business records I can see that 
the business recorded the chargeback for loan 3 on 17 September 2014 which  was some 
months after it was reversed from Mrs Ss account  on 29 April 2014.
When Mrs S asked  how much she owed to settle  her debts with Quid  Market in August 2015  
the business was well aware  of the chargeback on loan 3 and it was aware that this money 
had not been recovered from Mrs S. I agree with the adjudicator that this loan should have 
been included  in the figure given to Mrs S to settle  her accounts. It was made  clear  to the 
business in the telephone call that Mrs S had faced significant financial difficulty  and was 
getting a secured loan to deal with her debts. In these circumstances it was important for 
Quid Market to provide  an accurate figure for her outstanding accounts.  Regardless of the 
delay in being notified of the chargeback, at the time of providing the settlement figure the 
business knew of the chargeback.
From what  I can see the business  took no steps  to chase  this debt or make Mrs S aware of 
the error  until Mrs S made her unaffordable  lending complaint. From August 2015 until 
November 2017  Mrs S thought that her accounts were settled. I agree with the adjudicator 
that this error by the business  has caused  Mrs S some  distress and inconvenience. I have 
no reason to doubt that if she had been  made  aware of the debt she would have dealt with it 
as part of her debt consolidation in August 2015. It must have been a shock for her to be 
pursued for this debt after so long when she considered  that her accounts were settled.
The business has said that Mrs S incorrectly used the chargeback  process and it is being 
penalised. I dont  agree. Mrs S used the chargeback  process  as a desperate measure 
because of her financial  difficulty, which was in part contributed to by Quid Markets 
unaffordable loans.  So I do think that Quid Market should pay her some compensation to 
Ref: DRN41937104reflect the trouble and upset caused  by this. I agree with the adjudicator that £150 is fair and 
reasonable.       
As Mrs S has had the benefit  of the money I think it is only fair that she pays  it back  so Im 
not going to write off the outstanding balance.
putting things right  what Quid  Market  needs to do
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs S towards  interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything  it 
has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mrs S which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mrs S originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all interest fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans and treat any repayments made  by Mrs S as though  they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus then 
this should be refunded with 8% simple interest*  calculated on the surplus, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. Quid 
Market should  then refund the amounts calculate  in A and B and move  to step E
D.If there  is still an outstanding balance then the amounts  calculated  in A and B
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loan 3. If this results
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mrs S. However  if there is still
an outstanding  balance then Quid Market should try to agree an affordable  
repayment plan
with Mrs S. 
E.Pay Mrs S £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the
error in omitting  the outstanding balance from the settlement  figure. If there is still
a balance outstanding after applying steps  a, B, C and D, you can only offset  this
element of the redress if Mrs S agrees.
F.Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mrs Ss credit  file in relation to loans 4 
and 5. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quid Market  to take off tax from this interest. Quid  Market 
must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Ss complaint. Stagemount Limited 
should pay Mrs S compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4193710