K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Virgin Money plc acted unfairly and unreasonably when dealing 
with their mortgage application by failing to tell them all the reasons why the application 
might fail in advance and noting  the related credit search  in their credit  records.  They want  
their credit records  amended and compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs M applied for a mortgage to Virgin. It was unsuccessful  due to lack of 
affordability. Mr and Mrs M felt that this was unfair  as their application  failed for a reason not 
highlighted on its website  or the application form; they said if theyd had the information 
earlier, they wouldnt have  applied and then the credit search wouldnt show  on their credit 
records.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Virgin. It pointed out that Mr M was a mortgage  broker who 
made his own application,  and felt it was reasonable to assume he knew there were a 
number of reasons  why an application might be unsuccessful. Virgin noted Mr M didnt 
discuss his application  with its staff and that he knew a credit  check would be carried  out.
Mr and Mrs M complained to us. The adjudicators view was that Virgin  wasnt at fault. He 
said that a lender could use its commercial judgment and didnt  have to disclose all its 
policies publically. The adjudicator noted  that Mr M was a broker  and was likely to have  
known that all applications were considered on a case-by-case basis, with no outcome 
guaranteed. He said that there wasnt any evidence Mr M spoke  to Virgin  in detail about his 
application in advance (though he say he discussed  it in general terms with a business 
development manager for Virgin) and Mr M was aware that a credit  check  would be carried 
out.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They thought that the adjudicator hadnt got all the evidence. The 
adjudicator explained that he did have all the available evidence  and why hed reached the 
view that he had. Mr M said that other lenders gave more information about  their policies.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage application failed due to affordability and Virgins  lending policies; 
in the view of Virgin,  they already held the maximum amount of secured debt compared to 
their income that it was willing  to consider. Lenders  are required to ensure that a mortgage  is 
affordability, and while  lenders may reasonably  take different views about what is affordable, 
theyre able to have  policies  about how to assess affordability and apply  them fairly and 
reasonably. There are a number of ways in which a consumer  could fail to meet a lenders 
affordability test as an analysis of the ability to repay overall is required.
Ref: DRN43753662Mr and Mrs M arent disputing Virgins decision to decline to lend. They feel that it shouldve  
set out all of its lending policies in advance. But lenders arent  required to do so and it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to make  them; lending policies  change  often and some can be 
confidential or commercial  sensitive.  Virgin  is clear that its lending policies are confidential. 
But Mr M is a broker and its reasonable  to expect him to know  more than an ordinary 
member of the public  how lenders assess affordability generally, to look at the website for 
brokers and to know that not all the lending policies are publically available.  Mr M also 
shouldve known that a credit search  would be undertaken as this is standard  practice and 
consent was given in making  the application.
The fact that some lenders give more information than others doesnt mean that Virgin is at 
fault in my view. Lenders must assess affordability  and it isnt always fair or reasonable to 
require them to disclose  publically their policies to do that. And the outcome of any 
application isnt guaranteed and cant be predicted  until a full application is made  and a 
credit check  carried out. I cant say Virgin has acted unfairly or unreasonably in this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 26 July 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4375366