K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Ferratum UK Ltd wont agree to write  off a loan he says was taken  out 
fraudulently in his name.
background
Mr H says that, in October 2018, he received several text messages that appeared  to come 
from a lender (not Ferratum), telling him that loans had been paid into his account. He 
checked his bank account and found that his balance was indeed higher than he was 
expecting. He later received a telephone call from someone claiming to be from the same 
lender and asking him to return the money;  they provided the details of the account to which  
payment was to be made.
At around the same time, Ferratum (and other  lenders) received loan applications, 
apparently from Mr H. Ferratum agreed the application it received and paid £500 into Mr Hs 
bank account.  It issued a loan agreement  in his name, recording that he should  repay  the 
loan, with interest, over a four month  period.
Mr H said he didnt apply for the loan. He had been tricked into thinking that money  had 
been paid in error into his bank account and then into sending it to an account  controlled by 
fraudsters when he thought he was returning it to a lender.
Ferratum looked  into what had happened. It said it had carried  out appropriate checks when 
it had processed the application and had been  satisfied  that it was dealing with Mr H. One of 
the key checks it undertook was to make sure that the bank account into which  the loan was 
paid was in the same name as the applicant.
Having done that, Ferratum offered not to pursue Mr H for any interest due under the loan 
agreement, but instead  to reduce its claim against  him to £500 - the sum it transferred to his 
account. Mr H didnt  think this went far enough and complained to this service.
One of our investigators  considered Mr Hs complaint. He accepted that Mr H hadnt  applied 
for the loan and indicated that he thought Ferratum should write it off. He didnt  consider  that 
Mr H had had any benefit from it, as hed been  the victim of a scam. Ferratum  didnt agree 
and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and issued a provisional  decision  because I was minded to reach a different 
conclusion from that reached by the investigator. I thought that Mr Hs account of events  was 
quite plausible   that is, it was possible he had been  a victim of a scam.  But I didnt agree 
with the investigators  conclusion  that hed had no benefit from the loan funds. Thats  
because theyd been paid into his bank  account.  If hed lost that benefit  by later transferring 
money from his bank account, that wasnt anything to do with Ferratum.  
Neither party had anything further  to say in response to my provisional decision, and so Ive 
reviewed the case for a final time.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN49440402As Ive indicated, Mr Hs account of events is plausible.  He may well have been the victim of 
a scam. But, whatever  the true position,  I remain of the view that he benefited  from the funds 
transferred into his bank  account by Ferratum. It was only by transferring those funds from 
his account that he lost that benefit; and Ferratum had nothing  to do with his decision to do 
that. 
For these reasons, I think that Ferratums offer  to reduce the payment its seeking from Mr 
H to the amount transferred,  £500   is reasonable. I dont propose to ask it to do any more 
than what it offered to do in response to Mr Hs initial  complaint.     
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Ferratum UK Ltd to do anything further to resolve  Mr 
Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr 
H to accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4944040