K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2001, Mr W took out a PPI policy alongside  a mortgage when speaking to Santander  over 
the phone. The policy protected his monthly mortgage repayments  in the event  of accident, 
sickness and unemployment. Mr W paid a monthly  amount  for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.  
Mr W mainly says that he didnt know hed taken out the PPI and he didn't need it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain  my reasons.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr W to remember exactly  what was discussed  when  he 
took out the policy as this was so long ago. This means that what he says isnt enough on its 
own for me to be able to uphold his complaint. I have to base my decision on what I think is 
most likely given the available information  and the wider circumstances.
Theres no call recording available  now. But, I think Santander phoned Mr W to make  him 
aware of the benefits of having  PPI with his mortgage. And, based on what  this service  
knows about the way Santander  sold PPI over the phone around this time, Ive no reason to 
think that Santander wouldnt have explained to Mr W that PPI was optional. So I think Mr W 
wouldve been made aware  that it was up to him to say if he wanted to have it.
Mr Ws mortgage was a major financial commitment, and his home wouldve been at risk if 
his mortgage payments  werent kept up to date. So, I can see why Mr W mightve felt PPI 
was useful to have at the time  although its completely understandable that he mightve 
forgotten this now. 
On balance, I think its likely that during the call Mr W was persuaded of the benefits that the 
policy offered him. And PPI was added to Mr Ws account when he chose to buy it. 
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr W and it seems  to have been right for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time.  The policy wouldve paid out a 
benefit for up to 12 months in the event of a successful accident or sickness claim  and 
repeat claims were possible providing  Mr W with long term cover  for his mortgage. The 
policy covered his mortgage  repayments  for longer  than Mr W told us he wouldve received 
sick pay from him employer if he couldnt  work  and it wouldve been paid in addition  to any 
work benefits Mr W mightve got. So I think the policy  couldve provided  a useful benefit at a 
difficult time  especially  if Mr W mightve had extra costs as a result of being  off work as a 
result of illness or disability. 
Ref: DRN46362442The policy couldve  also paid out for up to 12 months at a time if Mr W lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Ive taken into account that Mr W mentioned having a five figure  amount in savings. But 
there was no guarantee when Mr W took out his mortgage that hed always  have savings to 
rely on if he needed to make a claim. I think its likely that he wouldve put at least some of 
this money towards  the costs of buying  and setting up his new home.  
And having PPI meant Mr W could  continue to keep any remaining savings to spend on 
other things  or to provide  him with financial security. So PPI couldve been  a useful benefit in 
whats likely to have been difficult circumstances for Mr W if hed needed to make a claim. 
Its possible Santander didnt point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. But Mr W 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those. So I dont think  its likely this wouldve 
made any difference to his decision to take out the policy.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr W during the phone call. The cost of the 
policy was shown in the welcome  letter sent to him and he couldve queried it then if he 
decided this wasnt something he wanted  to pay for. But, from what  Ive seen, it doesnt look 
as if that happened. Mr W hasnt suggested  that he couldnt afford the monthly premiums.  
And he wouldve  signed an instruction form to his bank to cover the cost.  So it seems he was 
happy at the time to pay for PPI. 
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr W still wouldve  decided to buy the policy even if hed been better informed as the 
policy gave him useful protection in his particular situation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4636244