K822xcomplaint
Mr R has complained that MCE Insurance Company Limited failed to properly deal with a 
claim made under his motorcycle  insurance policy which led to him receiving a County Court 
Judgment (CCJ) against him. 
background 
Mr R bought a motorcycle  insurance  policy with the insurer,  MCE. In June 2018 he reported 
an incident he was involved  in to MCE. Mr R was held at fault for the incident.
MCE received a claim for repairs and credit hire costs from the other  drivers  representative.  
It settled only the repair  costs. The other drivers  representative made a claim against 
Mr R, but addressed it to MCE.  
In January 2019 a CCJ was recorded  against Mr R in default. Mr R only found  out about  the 
CCJ as he happened  to apply for a re-mortgage  in January 2019. Mr Rs bank told him the 
application had been declined because of the CCJ.
Mr R contacted MCE in January 2019 but it didnt reply. So in February 2019 he decided  to 
settle the CCJ himself  within 30 days to prevent  any long term impact  on his credit  rating.  He 
complained to MCE. 
Mr R didnt hear from MCE so after eight weeks he asked us look at his complaint. He told 
us that the impact of the re-mortgage being unsuccessful meant he and his partner had to 
live together for longer  after theyd separated. He said his credit card limit was reduced in 
February 2019 because of the CCJ. 
MCE told us it intended  to negotiate the credit hire costs  with the third party, but accepts it should 
have done this sooner. And it said it didnt  reply to Mr Rs complaint in time because it was still 
investigating it. MCE reimbursed Mr R for the costs he paid to settle the CCJ in May 2019.  
MCE said if it had replied  to Mr Rs complaint,  it would have paid him £350 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  it caused.  
Our investigator thought MCE hadnt  acted  reasonably. She found  that the CCJ had been 
removed  and Mr R had successfully applied for a re-mortgage again a couple  of months later.  
She didnt  think there was enough evidence to show  that Mr Rs credit card limit had been 
reduced because  of the CCJ due to the timing and the reasons given by the card supplier. She 
thought MCE  should  pay Mr R £350  compensation  but also pay interest on the amount Mr R 
had paid to settle the CCJ from the date he paid it to the date MCE reimbursed  him. 
MCE accepted  the investigators view. 
Mr R didnt agree. He feels we havent been  impartial and have focused on him in our 
investigation rather than the actions of MCE. Mr R said its clear  that the credit card supplier 
reduced his credit card limit because of the CCJ. He said hes not asking this service to 
award a monetary amount. He wants a report which points out where MCE has failed, which 
laws it broke  and the regulations it breached.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN49765952my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to read that Mr R believes  we have focused on him more  than MCE. We take an 
even handed approach  when looking at the information provided by both parties. We are 
here to resolve  complaints informally but we keep in mind the relevant laws and industry 
best practice. We rely on the evidence provided  by both parties.
MCE said it intended to negotiate some of the claim costs with the other drivers 
representative. But as an insurer,  MCE deals with claims all the time and was aware of the 
potential consequences  of not meeting the claim costs in time to prevent a CCJ against  
Mr R. As Mr R said, it was too little too late. MCE accepts that it should  have done more 
sooner. It didnt keep  Mr R updated. And I agree with him that  had he not settled the CCJ 
within 30 days - his credit rating  would  have been negatively affected for much longer. 
Ive no doubt that it was upsetting to find out that Mr R had a CCJ recorded against  him, and 
to also have his mortgage application declined at what  was a difficult  time for him personally.
Mr R provided  a copy of a letter from his credit  card supplier in February 2019. It said that it 
had reviewed the way Mr R used his credit  card  and that it had asked for some  information 
from a credit reference agency. It decided to reduce Mr Rs limit to just above the balance  he 
currently owed. 
Our investigator explained that it isnt for us to determine how Mr Rs card supplier assessed 
his credit limit. But we asked Mr R if he could provide  further evidence  to show that it was 
the CCJ that led to the suppliers decision. Mr R explained that he decided to cancel his card 
because the supplier didnt adjust the limit after the CCJ was removed. From the monthly 
credit score reports  Mr R provided, it appears that his credit  rating  reduced  in the month  the 
CCJ was recorded   the impact of that is evident.  But in the month before, Mr Rs credit  
score also reduced.  Mr R feels weve suggested  he had financial problems which he didnt. 
And he said theres a delay in the information feeding through  to the credit score  reports he 
provided. But based on the evidence  available, there isnt enough for me to safely  conclude  
that Mr Rs credit card supplier reduced his spending limit because  of the CCJ.
When Mr R first contacted us, we asked  him what he wanted  to put things right.  He said he 
was looking for financial  compensation.  As the investigator explained, our role isnt to punish 
a business. The Financial Conduct  Authority  regulates MCE. But its clear that MCE caused 
Mr R considerable distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service.  So I think  the 
fairest outcome  is for MCE to compensate  Mr R. And we look at what happened rather  than 
what might  have happened when deciding a fair sum. 
So I think MCE should pay Mr R £350  compensation, And I think it should pay interest  on the 
sum he paid to settle the CCJ. MCE didnt reimburse Mr R until three months after hed 
settled the CCJ costs. 
Ref: DRN49765953my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
MCE Insurance Company Limited  to do the following:
Pay Mr R £350  compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Pay interest at a rate of 8% simple interest  a year on the sum Mr R paid to settle  the 
CCJ in February 2019 to the date MCE reimbursed  him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4976595