K822xComplaint
Mr C complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VFS) imposed an unfair 
early termination fee as a result of an unreasonable requirement to service  his hire car.
Background
Mr C hired a new car from VFS. The agreement was for two years  with monthly payments of 
£264. It was signed on 21 December 2016 and the car was first registered and delivered to 
Mr C on 27 January 2017. There was a limited mileage allowance on the car of 20,000  
miles.
The second  service was due at the earlier of 19,000 miles of use, or after two years  of use; 
this coincided with the end date of the hire period. However, the cars service light came on 
after it had been  driven some  18,000  miles and some  21 months into the contract. I gather 
this meant  Mr C would  have had to pay for a service  before the end of the hire period. When  
VFS said he would  have to have  the car serviced before the end of his agreement  he 
decided to terminate  the agreement early  and paid a charge of £290 for doing so.
Mr C complained and said the pre delivery  inspection had been carried out on 13 December 
2016 and the service  system hadnt  been reset when the car had been sold to him. He 
believed this had caused the service light to come  on early. He suggested that he should  not 
be required  to have  the car serviced  before returning it. VFS didnt agree and said it was 
matter for the dealer.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service  and it was considered  by one of our adjudicators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. She said the early settlement fee was correctly invoiced 
in accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement.
As for the service she said the Key Information Responsibilities sheet  said customers  
should: Ensure the vehicle is serviced  in accordance with the manufacturers  recommended  
intervals by an Audi Centre. She thought the service light must have come on because the 
car required a more exhaustive service  approaching  the 19,000  mile mark.
She concluded the service light determined when a service was needed regardless of the 
manufacturers general recommendation on service intervals. She didnt think  VFS had 
acted unreasonably or unfairly and she didnt  consider Mr C should be compensated for not 
having a car for the last few weeks of the agreement.
Mr C didnt agree and said the dealer  hadnt responded to request  for information and so any 
investigation was incomplete. He had spoken to other lessors and they had told him that as 
long as a car was returned within two years  a service wouldnt be required. He said he had 
ordered the car for 27 January when a previous  lease agreement  came to an end.
However the dealer had taken delivery of the car in mid-December and had hoped  to sell it 
before Christmas. It had carried out the pre-delivery  inspection  on 13 December which  would 
have caused the service  light to be set. He reiterated his belief that the dealer hadnt  reset  it 
when the car was sold and this had caused the light to come on prematurely.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Ref: DRN45060982I said that car manufacturers give guidance on service intervals, but the wording of that 
guidance is open to some interpretation.  In this case  the manufacturer suggests that a 
service is undertaken  after the earlier of 19,000 miles or two years.  However, it doesnt 
specify when the clock starts ticking for the two year limit. Mr C told both VFS and this 
service that the service  light came on telling him the car needed  servicing within 40 days  or 
1,000 miles 40 days before 13 December  2018.
He had suggested that this was triggered by the date and not any other cause.  He didnt 
believe the car had been  subjected to a particular  style of driving that might  cause it to need 
an early service. Nor did he or the adjudicator think there were any faults which  needed 
rectification. The dealer  didnt respond to requests  for further information and I thought Mr C 
was right in his suggestion. I suspected  the service light wasnt reset when  the car was sold 
and so it triggered 40 days before the anniversary of the pre-delivery inspection.
I recognised there can be other reasons why the light might come on, but in the absence of 
any evidence to the contrary it seemed to me that the most likely explanation was the one 
put forward by Mr C.
The manufacturer doesnt specify when  the two year period begins, but I thought it 
reasonable for any purchaser or hirer to presume it would begin  when it is delivered. Mr C 
hired a new car and so I thought it reasonable for him to have presumed  that he would have 
no need to have the car serviced  if he returned  it within two years  having done less than 
19,000 miles. I had seen nothing from VFS to show that he was told that the two year period 
had been running for a number of weeks before  he collected it.
The end result was Mr C incurred an early termination fee of £290 which I thought  should  be 
returned to him. He had suggested he be compensated for the loss of use of the car. I 
presumed Mr C didnt  pay the final monthly  hire payment and assuming he had no other  car 
he didnt incur and running costs.  As such I didnt consider VFS should compensate him for 
lack of a car. However, I thought he would have suffered some distress  and inconvenience 
which merited compensation and I thought VFS should pay him £100.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The business said it didnt  agree  with my conclusions, but it would accept  them. Mr C said 
he was hoping for more  compensation, but said he would  accept the proposed redress if the 
business did. Therefore,  as both parties have  accepted my provisional decision it remains 
unchanged.
Ref: DRN45060983My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this compliant and I direct Volkswagen Financial Services
(UK) Limited to refund the early termination  fee of £290 and pay Mr C compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience of £100. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2019.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4506098