K820x#14complaint
D, a limited company,  complains about problems removing an account signatory  from its 
business account with Barclays Bank UK PLC. D is represented by its director, who Ill refer 
to as Mr D. He asks for compensation.
background
In May 2018  Mr D asked  Barclays to remove an ex colleague (who  Ill refer to as Mr M) from 
Ds account as hed left the business. Barclays didnt action this correctly and Mr M had 
electronic access to Ds account until mid July 2018.  
Mr D says when Mr M left hed agreed to pay him a share of Ds income. He says Mr M was 
able to view Ds account and claimed  he was owed further money. To avoid going to court, 
Mr D made  a payment  to Mr M.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  He said the dispute 
between Mr D and Mr M didnt  result from Barclays error. Mr D voluntarily made  a payment 
to Mr M to avoid a dispute.  It was Mr Ds choice to do this. Barclays  offered £100  
compensation for the inconvenience its error  caused  and the adjudicator said this was fair. 
D didnt agree. Mr D said the compensation hadnt put D back  into the position it would have 
been in but for the error.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
In May 2018  Mr D completed  a mandate change to remove  Mr M from Ds account. Due to 
an error by Barclays, Mr M still had some  access  to Ds account. Mr D discovered this in July 
2018 and contacted Barclays.  Barclays removed  Mr Ms access to Ds account in July 2018.
Theres no doubt that Barclays made an error. So I need to consider what  it should do to put 
matters right.
The account  is in Ds name. So, when considering what compensation is fair and 
reasonable, I need to consider the effect on D. I cant usually award compensation to third 
parties  such as Mr D  so while I understand hes found this upsetting I cant ask Barclays 
to pay compensation  for this.
Mr D says he agreed with Mr M how Ds income would be shared when Mr M left the 
business. Because Mr M had access to Ds account he was able to see that more income 
was paid into the account than expected  and asked for more  money.  Mr D says Mr M 
disputes what theyd  agreed and he doesnt  have written proof  of their agreement. So he had 
to make a payment  to Mr M. Mr D says this caused  a financial loss and his relationship  with 
Mr M has suffered.
Ref: DRN41912202I dont think the evidence is sufficiently clear here that D suffered a financial loss due to 
Barclays error. 
First, from what Mr D has said, theres  a dispute between  him and Mr M about what was 
agreed. He says he doesnt have written  evidence to support his recollection  of the 
agreement. Based on the available evidence, I cant fairly  assess whether  and by how 
much  the amount paid to Mr M was more than had been agreed.
Second, I dont think I can reasonably find that the dispute between  Mr D and Mr M arose  
only because Mr M was able to view Ds account.  Mr M chose to view Ds account  before  he 
contacted Mr D about money he said he was owed. But its possible Mr M would have 
disputed whether hed received his agreed share  of Ds income regardless of Barclays error. 
And, lastly,  while Mr D says he made  the payment to avoid a court action, I havent seen any 
evidence that formal proceedings were imminent or likely. So I cant fairly say that the 
payment was made to mitigate a larger potential loss to D. Mr D chose to make the payment 
to Mr M. While he may have good reasons for doing  so, I dont think its reasonable to ask 
Barclays to pay compensation. 
Theres no evidence that Mr M used his access to make payments or withdraw funds from 
Ds account or other evidence of financial loss. Barclays offered £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused to D. In the circumstances, I think  this is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find the compensation offered by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4191220