K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Santander  UK Plc, trading at the time as Abbey National,  mis-sold them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage through another company in 2002. They  were  also sold 
an Abbey  National  PPI policy at the same. It cost £31.03 per month for £720  per month of 
cover for unemployment only. The cover  was split 75/25 in favour of Mrs H.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed. They said, 
in the main, we had found in favour of Santander based on generic paperwork and that 
Santander hadnt been able to provide evidence to support its claims or to show  its dealings 
with Mr and Mrs H. They said Santander  had just assumed they could not afford to make 
their repayments, when they didnt need  or want PPI and it wasnt  suitable for their needs. 
They said they had only recently become aware  that PPI had been added without their 
knowledge and that they werent told it was optional. 
As agreement couldnt be reached their complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence  is either 
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  based on whats available.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
I am not upholding  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs H say they didnt know PPI was added.  I cant know  what was discussed  
with Abbey  National at the time.  Ive seen a sample  PPI application Santander has sent 
in, showing the paperwork  that was being used around this time to sell PPI to 
customers. Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage  was through  another  business.  As PPI wasnt  sold 
to them by their lender,  but by a different business, I think  it likely that separate PPI 
paperwork like this wouldve had to be completed before PPI was added. I havent seen 
anything to make me think  that Santander wasnt following  its usual sales process in 
Mr and Mrs Hs case, so I think  it likely  that paperwork like this wouldve been  used  to 
sell the PPI to them.  The form asked the customer  to say whether they wanted  PPI, and 
if they did, to select the type of cover they wanted, and, if it was a joint mortgage,
to say how they wanted to split the cover.  
I think it likely that there would have been  a discussion about PPI. I say this because  
unemployment cover  only was taken out and the cover was split 75/25  in favour of 
Mrs H. This suggests to me that Mr and Mrs H opted  for the cover that best suited their 
needs at the time, Mrs H being the higher  earner.  So, overall,  I think it more likely that 
Mr and Mrs H selected the cover, although  I can understand why they may not 
remember it that way now given how much time has passed. I think  they were probably  
persuaded that PPI was right for them given the long financial commitment they were 
entering into. 
Ref: DRN41405452Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. Given the lack of information  
now available, and Santanders offer to treat this as an advised  sale,  I have worked on this 
basis too. That means Santander  had the added responsibility of checking whether the 
cover was right for them. It also had to give them clear, fair and accurate information, so 
they could make an informed choice for themselves about whether they wanted to buy PPI.
It doesnt look as if PPI was unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs H, based on what Ive seen  of their 
circumstances at the time. I say this because:
they seemed  eligible to take out the PPI.
Mr and Mrs H took out unemployment  cover  only. I can see that they both said they 
would get 6 months worth of full sick pay through their employers and 6 months 
worth of sick pay at half pay. This might be the reason they opted  for unemployment 
cover only.  If Mrs or Mr H lost their job unexpectedly, the PPI would have paid out on 
top of any redundancy payment they received, for up to 12 months per successful 
unemployment claim. 
They said they had life insurance  and critical illness cover.  But, I cant see that either  
of these insurances provided  them  with duplicate cover.  
I cant see that the monthly paid policy was unaffordable and it couldve been  
cancelled at any time without them losing out financially.
I cant see that either of them were  affected by any of the main limitations or 
exclusions in the policy. So, I think they wouldve still considered  the policy  worth  it, 
in their circumstances.
Mr and Mrs H said they had around  £55,000  in savings  at the time of sale. They  say 
they cant provide  evidence  of this now, given how much time has passed.  They  
recall that their mortgage was around  £100,000 around this time. We asked Mr and 
Mrs H why they didnt  use these savings to reduce  their borrowing. They  said this 
was because they were comfortable making the mortgage repayments and enjoyed 
the security of knowing they had savings. They said their savings werent earmarked 
for any particular purpose. Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Hs positon. I think 
they likely made  a choice to take PPI, knowing their level of savings,  and took the 
level of protection  (unemployment cover only),  that best suited their needs  at the 
time. PPI wouldve protected their home and offered them some financial security to 
help meet their mortgage repayments,  if one or both of them  was made  unemployed. 
It wouldve allowed them  to keep hold of their savings, which appeared to be 
important to them. So, I cant  see that these other  resources made  the policy 
unsuitable for them.
 
Overall, I think the PPI would have  been useful to Mr and Mrs H, in their circumstances.
Its possible Santander didnt give Mr and Mrs H all the information  they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know when it made the cost clear or when it pointed  out the main 
things the policy didnt cover. So, although the information may not have been as clear  as it 
couldve been, before  I decide whether to uphold their complaint, I must consider whether 
Mr and Mrs H have lost out because of this. I cant  see that they have. I think they wouldve 
understood they had to pay something  for PPI, and as Ive said above  the cost was 
affordable and the policy appeared  suitable. 
Ive considered carefully all of Mr and Mrs Hs comments, including that Santander hasnt 
been able to provide Mr and Mrs Hs paperwork from the time of sale.  This is not usual,  I 
have seen many cases like this. Banks  often  only keep records for six years and here the 
Ref: DRN41405453policy was sold over 16 years ago. Where this is the case, we have to look at the wider 
circumstances. This might  include taking into account what  weve  learnt about the banks 
sales processes around the time of sale from dealing with other cases. 
It follows, I dont think  Mr and Mrs H have lost out because of any problems with the sale 
and I dont think this policy  was mis-sold to them. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 July 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4140545