K820x#14complaint
Mrs U complained about how CIS General  Insurance Limited  (trading as 
The Cooperative Insurance) settled a claim against her husbands motor insurance  policy.
background
Mrs U was in an accident which  she didnt think was her fault, but the other  driver made a
claim under her husbands policy. CIS settled the claim  on a 50/50  (or split liability) basis.
Mrs U only found out about it afterwards, and complained to CIS. They didnt think  their
decision was wrong. But they offered her £100 compensation because they accepted theyd
had some service failings. 
The investigator didnt  recommend that Mrs Us complaint should be upheld. She thought 
that CISs  decision to settle the claim was reasonable and in line with the policy, and that 
their compensation for their poor customer service was fair. Mrs U disagreed  and so her
case was passed  to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on the case  on 9 January 2019 saying I didnt intend to 
uphold Mrs Us complaint.  CIS didnt  have any further comments, but Mrs U has made some 
further comments, which I respond to below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator  explained to Mrs U, we dont  decide who was liable for causing  an
accident, as thats  a matter for the courts. We only consider whether a business has acted in
line with their policy terms, and whether they reached their decision in a fair and reasonable
way.
Mrs Us policy says on page  21:
"We may take over and conduct  the claim and may, subject to the interest of the 
Insured Person, settle the claim in the Insured Persons name."
This is a common term in motor insurance policies. It allows  CIS to settle any claim against
the policy as they see fit, whether Mrs U agrees with it or not. We realise that insurers  are 
entitled to make a commercial decision about whether to contest a claim in court or to settle 
it. We wont interfere with this decision as long as its fair and reasonable in the particular
circumstances. We look at this specifically, not generically.
Mrs U was the named  driver on her husbands  insurance policy.  She felt that the other driver
in the accident was wholly to blame.  CIS had asked her for written information about  what
happened, and she said shed sent them that. But though CIS said they didnt receive that, 
they decided to settle anyway. Mrs U said she had photographs of the aftermath of the 
accident, which she could  have sent. She felt that CIS had settled too quickly,  before theyd 
properly investigated  it. She thought they hadnt represented her properly and she was 
unhappy that this had made her premiums  go up and shed had to pay a policy excess.
Ref: DRN46647572Mrs U accepts there were no independent  witnesses to the accident. But she questions
whether CIS had tried to get CCTV footage, saying that theyd left that to her. But its clear
from CISs  file that they did write to the relevant authority asking for CCTV footage but were  
told none was available. This meant that it was one persons word against another.  
CIS thought that split liability was the most likely  outcome if it went  to court.  So they settled 
on that basis because  they felt they would be unlikely to win outright if the case went  to court 
and theyd incur court  costs in trying  to do so.
CIS did decide to settle the claim quickly, but I dont think that means that their decision was
wrong. Theyd got an account from the other  drivers insurer.  Theyd already got a verbal
account of events from Mrs U, so a written  one wasnt likely to have made any difference.
And a diagram and photos of the aftermath dont show what  happened during the accident
And as I said above CIS did try to obtain the CCTV footage but werent able to. So I thought
that CIS had done what they could  to investigate. And I thought that CIS already had enough 
information from Mrs U to decide that it wasnt  economical for them to try to defend the 
matter in court and that wasnt unreasonable. Even if theyd got that more information  from 
her beforehand, I didnt think that it would  have made any difference to their decision. As I 
said above I didnt  think that a diagram  confirming what Mrs U had already told CIS would 
add anything more  and the same  applies to photos  taken after the accident.  
CIS accepted that theyd had service  failings, and didnt tell her that theyd settled her case. 
But CIS werent required to tell her beforehand that theyd  settle  it, as under the policy they 
could settle whether shed agreed or not. But they did tell her beforehand  that they might 
decide that it was split liability,  so she would have been aware that it was a possibility. I can 
see that Mrs U feels  very strongly  that CIS should  have defended her against the other 
drivers claim, even  if she had only a 1% chance of winning.  But as I said above, its up to 
the insurer to decide  whether or not its economic for them to defend a claim. The only 
question is whether theyd been  reasonable in doing  that and I thought that they had.
Normally if an insurer doesnt have instructions to admit liability  on their insureds  behalf  they
will settle a claim  on a without prejudice basis, which means that the insured can still take
the other driver or their insurer to court for their own (uninsured) losses  such as personal
injury or their excess  regardless  of the settlement their insurer  has made. Although  CIS
didnt mention without  prejudice in their settlement offer to the other  drivers insurer I cant
see that they admitted liability either.  Also from what Ive seen, when they wrote to the other
side asking for 50% of their outlay they said the matter had been settled "without prejudice to
any other claims" . So from what Ive seen I think CIS has done enough not to prejudice any
claim Mrs U might want to bring  against the other side in court.
CIS also said that court rules dont  treat a settlement offer as an admission in circumstances
where theres no personal injury claim. Even  if that isnt the case, if Mrs U does  decide  to
make a court claim later and finds that CISs  actions have prejudiced  her own (future)  claim
she may raise a further complaint  with CIS and then with us.
I appreciate that Mrs U has felt unhappy  about CISs decision .She feels that she was in the
right and that CIS didnt support her enough and this has left her out of pocket. But 
I thought that CIS did consider the whole matter  properly before settling. Based on the 
evidence they had, it wasnt unreasonable for them  to settle as they did. So I didnt think  
theyd done anything wrong  there.
Ref: DRN46647573CIS agreed  that before settling they should have waited for the information theyd asked 
Mrs U for. And that they could have  kept her better informed during the claims process. They
offered her £100  in compensation for any inconvenience she suffered as result of that. I saw 
that Mrs U has been  affected emotionally  by the accident, and by having  to deal with CIS 
about the other drivers  claim. But as the accident itself wasnt  CISs fault, and there
will always  be some  inconvenience in dealing with an insurance claim,  I thought  that CISs 
compensation offer was reasonable and was in line with what  we would normally award  in 
the circumstances. So I expected CIS to pay Mrs U that £100 compensation amount  if they 
hadnt done so, but I didnt ask them to do anything  else.
Mrs U didnt agree with my provisional decision.  She was still unhappy about having  to pay 
CIS her full policy excess. And she felt that it was necessary to listen to the phone calls 
shed had with CIS to understand  the level of distress shed experienced.
I think that Mrs U did have  to pay her full policy excess. This is because  a policy excess  is 
something that a policyholder has to pay when  any claim is made  on their policy, whether or 
not they are at fault, and they agree to this by taking out the policy.  In some cases, if theyre 
not at fault they can reclaim their excess from the third party insurer,  or they may be able to 
claim from legal  expenses  cover  taken out with their motor insurance.  But a claim was made  
against Mrs Us policy and so she was liable to pay her excess  in full, and so CIS havent  
done anything  wrong in requiring that.
Ive looked at CISs records,  which include  details  of their phone conversations with Mrs U 
and her husband. I dont  think  I need  to listen to call recordings to establish  Mrs Us distress, 
because I agree that she did experience  distress  and inconvenience. CIS agreed too. 
I accept that Mrs U felt distressed by CISs decision  to settle  the claim on a split liability  
basis. But Ive found that CIS acted reasonably in making that decision, and so there cant 
be any award for distress  and inconvenience  about  that. 
I also accept that Mrs U felt distressed that CIS didnt tell her before they decided  to settle 
the third partys claim,  although  theyd told her they would keep her informed about it. But, as 
Ive explained  above, CIS didnt need Mrs Us agreement to settle the claim. So even if they 
had told her beforehand, they could  still have settled it and she couldnt have stopped them.  
So their not telling her didnt  make any difference to the outcome for Mrs U. But it did mean 
that CIS hadnt  met their own customer service standards because  they didnt do something 
for her that theyd  said they would. However CIS apologised for that and offered her £100  in 
compensation for it. I consider that this is a reasonable level of compensation for that type of 
service issue,  and the level of distress  we think is attributable to it, and the compensation is 
in line with other awards this service makes. 
So I dont  see any reason to change my provisional  decision. I expect  CIS to pay Mrs U the 
£100 if they havent already done  so, but I dont require them to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision, its my final decision that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN46647574Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4664757