K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy about the way in which Barclays Bank UK PLC has handled an international 
money transfer hed requested.
background
In January 2019 Mr S requested Barclays transfer  £100,000 from the bank account he held 
in the UK to a bank account he held abroad. This request was done online. He requested  
Barclays covert the money being transferred from pounds sterling into the currency of the 
country where his other account  was held. 
However the account held in the other  country was also in pounds  sterling. Mr S didnt know  
this at the time he instructed  Barclays  to make the transfer. This meant the money  he asked 
Barclays to transfer was converted back into pounds sterling when  it arrived  into his other 
account  -  and as a result hes lost over £4,000.
Mr S wants  Barclays to recall the transfer it made to his other account so that he can make 
the transaction again  but this time in pounds sterling. 
Our investigator didnt  think Barclays had done  anything wrong by following Mr Ss 
instructions to convert the money  being transferred into a different currency. He didnt think  it 
was fair to ask Barclays to recall the money. Nor did he think  it was fair to ask Barclays  to 
pay Mr S the money hes lost out on by his funds being converted into another  currency  
before being converted back  into pounds  sterling.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  the 
complaint.
Im satisfied Barclays followed  Mr Ss request to convert the money hed asked  to be 
transferred into the currency of the country  where  his other  account  was held. I accept that 
Barclays didnt know that the recipient account was also in pounds sterling and so wouldnt 
have known that the money wouldve been  converted back into that currency.  
I understand why Mr S is annoyed and frustrated  about having his money  converted  into a 
different currency and then back to pounds sterling  again  which has needlessly cost him 
over £4,000. But it wouldnt be fair for me to hold Barclays  responsible for that when it had 
followed his instructions and hasnt done  anything wrong.  So  I dont think  it has to do 
anything more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Ref: DRN47861052David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4786105