K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC, trading as TSB, mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy. Mr H made his credit card application in 
1994, but Lloyds cant now say whether the PPI was also taken out at that time. The cover 
could have been taken out later, although this must have been  by January 2000 as Lloyds 
has a record of PPI charges showing on Mr Hs card statements by then.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.  Having done  so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons Ill now explain.
Unfortunately, Lloyds doesnt have much information or paperwork about  this PPI sale.  But 
this isnt that surprising given the sale took place  such  a long time ago. Mr H doesnt seem to 
have a particularly  good memory  of the sale either,  although he thinks  it took place in a 
branch meeting. In these circumstances, I need  to decide what I think is most likely  to have 
happened based on the very limited information  available to me.
Mr H says he wasnt aware  hed been sold PPI and has no memory of this cover being 
discussed with him at the time, or at subsequent  annual review meetings with the branch 
manager. So he thinks the PPI must have been  added without his knowledge.
Lloyds no longer has a copy of Mr Hs original credit  card agreement, or a separate 
application form for his PPI policy. It has provided an example  of a credit  card agreement 
from around the time Mr Hs card was taken out. And this shows  that a PPI selection box 
would need to have been ticked for this cover to have been  added.  But I cant rely on this 
example form as I dont  know whether this was when  the PPI was added to his account, or 
how it was sold to him. 
But this service has seen  a lot of other  examples of TSB Trustcard credit agreements 
covering the whole period  when  the PPI may have been sold and across the different sales  
channels used. We also have a reasonably good understanding  of the sales  processes used 
by TSB during  this time. And Im satisfied that PPI isnt likely to have  been  added to Mr Hs 
card account  by TSB unless he had agreed  to this. I also think he would have queried why 
PPI was shown  as being charged on his card statements if he hadnt  said hed take it.
So, on the limited  information I have available  to me, I think  its most likely that Mr H actively  
decided to take out PPI cover knowing he had a choice.  But I can understand why he may 
not be able to recall  this now.
Ref: DRN42919682Lloyds cant say for sure whether the PPI was recommended  to Mr H. But Ive looked  at this 
complaint on the basis that Lloyds did recommend the policy. This is because this means it 
needed to ensure that the policy was suitable. I dont know how Lloyds did this. But from 
what I know of Mr Hs circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have 
been suitable. I say this because:
Mr H appears  to have been  eligible for the policy. And I havent found any reason why he 
is likely  to have been affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.  So, for 
example, self-employed people werent  particularly  disadvantaged by the terms of the 
policy if they needed to make  a claim.
Mr H says he had some  other  means of making his card repayments for a time if he was 
unable to work. But this policy would have  paid out in addition  to any other means he 
had of making his repayments. It would have paid off ten percent of his outstanding 
balance each month for up to twelve months  per claim. So I still think  he would have 
valued the extra security the policy gave him.
Ive no real reason  to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr H. And as the premiums 
for the policy were  charged monthly,  he could have cancelled it if it no longer met his 
needs.
Lloyds also needed  to ensure that Mr H was given enough information about  the PPI policy  
to make up his own mind about  whether  he wanted  it. I think that the information  Lloyds gave 
him could  have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the 
policy was unsuitable  for him, I dont think better information would have changed his mind  
about taking it out. I think hed still have  thought  it gave him useful cover at an affordable 
price.
So I dont  think that Mr H has lost out by anything  that Lloyds may have done  wrong  when it 
sold him this PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4291968