K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained that National  Westminster Bank Plc (the bank) has failed  to meet  his 
claim for compensation  made  against the bank  under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
Mr Ss claim concerns  a car he bought and the faults hes had to pay to put right. Hes also 
said he suffered further financial loss when  he re-sold the car after submitting his complaint 
to the ombudsman service. 
background
Mr S says the second-hand car he bought  wasnt of satisfactory quality and/or fit for purpose 
when he bought it. His claim was for around £5,700 for repairs  and replacement items,  
including (among other things)  new tyres  and 19 minor faults identified  by Land  Rover.
The bank rejected Mr Ss claim  in full. It said the car had been  sold with a valid MOT 
certificate, and there was no satisfactory proof the faults hadnt been  due to wear and tear. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ss complaint in part. He said the MOT  certificate didnt mean the 
car was of satisfactory quality or fit for purpose, it only meant the car was roadworthy. He 
recommended the bank  should reimburse Mr S for two items: replacement shock absorber 
and the Land Rover  inspection (described by Mr S as fault diagnosis and full health  check). 
In money terms, this amounted to around  £400. 
The adjudicator also said he didnt think Mr S had re-sold  the car for less than its probable  
market value (ie for a car without major faults).  
The bank agreed to the adjudicators recommendation.  Mr S did not. He said two main 
things:
He thought the bank  should meet his claim in full. The ombudsman  service was 
letting the bank off too lightly and allowing it to avoid its responsibilities under 
section 75.
Hed suffered further financial  harm when,  after submitting his complaint to our 
service but before  wed reached our conclusions,  he re-sold  the car at a loss, having 
been advised by the ombudsman service that this would  not influence the decision 
or the value of [his] claim. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I have 
reached similar conclusions to the adjudicator on Mr Ss complaint  as originally submitted to 
us. 
Ill also explain why I think Mr Ss point  about  re-selling the car (a) is irrelevant to his claim 
against the bank, which is the subject of this decision, and (b) doesnt in my view otherwise 
help his case.
Regarding the original  complaint, the adjudicator didnt  expressly  say so but I assume  he 
has only recommended  the bank should  reimburse  Mr S for items which he concluded were  
Ref: DRN49455592probably (a) not due to wear and tear and (b) fell below the standard of satisfactory  quality (a 
second hand car isnt expected to be in perfect  condition) or of fitness for purpose.  
I think the adjudicator  reached fair conclusions on this point  and I have reached the same 
conclusions. I too think it would be fair if the bank compensated Mr S as the adjudicator  
suggested. Interest  should be added to the compensation to reflect our usual practice where 
money is being reimbursed. 
Regarding the re-sale  of the car:
If (its unclear to me) Mr S is suggesting he suffered  financial harm  from something 
the ombudsman  service said to him, clearly the bank  shouldnt have to compensate 
him for that.
Neither the bank  nor the ombudsman service  is or was responsible  for the re-sale 
value of Mr Ss car. The bank  is only responsible  for reimbursing Mr S with the cost 
of two items, which had already  been  carried out before the re-sale. That is the limit 
of the banks liability. There is and has been  no suggestion that the bank would also 
be liable  to Mr S if he sold the car for less than he thought  it should fetch. 
So if the ombudsman  service told Mr S it ought  not to affect  his complaint or the 
value of his claim if he sold the car, that was right. 
my final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc should  pay Mr S:
£74 plus 8% simple interest per year from 10 September  2018  to the date of payment
£312 plus 8% simple interest per year from 10 October 2018 to the date of payment
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4945559