K820x#14complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  didnt advise  him that he 
would incur an early repayment  charge on his mortgage before he sold his house. 
Mr O has brought this complaint on behalf of himself and his wife.
background
In May 2017  Mr and Mrs O applied to take out a mortgage with Bank of Scotland, they were  
provided with documentation explaining the key terms of the mortgage.
The document says:
Early repayment
You have  the right to repay this loan early, either fully or partially.
Early repayment  charge:
3.00% of the amount  repaid on or before 31/07/2018
2.00% of the amount  repaid on or before 31/07/2019
The maximum early  repayment charge you will pay is £5,717.76. Should you decide to repay
this loan early, please contact us to ascertain the exact level of the early repayment charge.
In April 2018, Mr and Mrs O received their annual  mortgage statement and on this it said for 
fixed rate mortgages  an early repayment  charge usually applies.  
In June 2018, Mr and Mrs O had agreed  to sell their house. And theyd  purchased a new 
home and taken out a new mortgage  with a new provider.
Mr O says that before this he had a conversation with Bank of Scotland to find out how much 
was outstanding on the mortgage and additional  information about the mortgage. Mr O says 
he wasnt told about the early repayment charge in this call. Bank of Scotland  says it has no 
record of this call and Mr O doesnt know exactly when it took place and unfortunately he 
doesnt have any evidence of this call either.
Then a few days before the sale was due to be completed, Mr O called Bank of Scotland  on 
25 June 2018.  Mr O wasnt sure what his mortgage  account number  was. Bank  of Scotland  
gave him the account number and there was also a short  conversation about how to sort out 
his direct debit payment  for the mortgage once  the sale had gone through.
On the day of completion 29 June 2018, Mr O was informed by his solicitor  that there  was an 
early repayment charge  due on the mortgage and Mr O called  Bank of Scotland. In this 
conversation Mr O told Bank of Scotland  he had only just found out about the early  
repayment charge  and he wanted to know if there was anything he could do about  it. Initially  
the call handler  said he may be able to port the mortgage to avoid the charge and Mr O 
appeared keen  on this idea. But after checking, the call handler said there  wasnt  enough 
time to do this and therefore it couldnt be done.
Following this Mr O raised a complaint with Bank of Scotland. And it responded by offering 
him £300 for the incorrect  information it had given and the raised  expectations regarding 
porting. It explained that Mr O wouldnt have been  able to port his mortgage because the 
Ref: DRN45117482new property was already purchased and its call handler shouldve told him this straight 
away.
With regards to whether  it shouldve told him that he had an early repayment  charge, Bank  
of Scotland said that this was detailed  in his original mortgage offer. And there was no other 
point of contact  with Mr O and Mrs O, where  this would  reasonably  have been discussed.
Mr O was unhappy with this and the fact that if hed waited a month to sell the property the 
early repayment charge  wouldve  been reduced. He says this was never explained  to him by 
Bank of Scotland.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but she didnt think it should be upheld.  Mr O 
disagreed and said that he felt Bank  of Scotland shouldve  informed  him in the calls he had 
with them  about  the early  repayment charge. Mr O says that in one of the calls he mentioned 
the amount to pay off the mortgage but the adviser didnt point out the early  repayment 
charge.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O said in his calls with Bank of Scotland, and to us in the course  of this complaint, that 
nobody had told him that his mortgage  had an early  repayment charge. And this is the crux 
of this complaint.  
I know how stressful house sales can be and Mr O has my sympathy with the way this 
situation has played out. I know  its likely Mr and Mrs O wouldve made  different choices if 
theyd been aware  of the early repayment  charge. But I can only consider whether Bank of 
Scotland did something wrong in this process.
Mr O had a mortgage  with Bank of Scotland and at the time of sale it gave him all the 
documentation required  for this mortgage, including the details of the early  repayment 
charge. It also sent annual mortgage statements that had reminders  of the likely  early 
repayment charge.  Bank of Scotland was the provider of Mr Os mortgage but it didnt have 
any advisory relationship  with him after the sale of the mortgage.  So it didnt have any 
responsibility in regards to the choices he made after this. However,  it does have the 
responsibility to give the relevant information to its customers when contacted.
From what  I understand Mr O purchased the new house using a different mortgage  provider.  
And when  he called Bank of Scotland in the days leading  up to the completion of the sale of 
his existing house, having listened to these calls,  they were  limited to confirming the account 
number and matters  regarding the direct  debit. 
Mr O says that an earlier call took place but he unfortunately has no evidence of it. I think his 
landline provider or mobile phone provider would potentially have a record  of this call but Mr 
O hasnt submitted any evidence regarding this. And he cant tell us what  day the call 
occurred on.
Bank of Scotland has checked  its records for both Mr Os landline and mobile number  but 
can find no record of this call. In this call Mr O says that he asked for a settlement figure  for 
the mortgage and Bank  of Scotland gave this to him but it didnt mention the early repayment 
Ref: DRN45117483charge. If this call did take place  as Mr O says it did, I think  Bank of Scotland  ought to have 
mentioned the early  repayment charge. Ultimately, we dont have any evidence that this call 
took place, so it would be unfair to hold Bank of Scotland responsible  based  on this. 
In the call days before completion, Mr O asked for his account number and he also asked a 
question about  how the direct debit would work with the mortgage  being paid off. So the 
Bank of Scotland member  of staff wouldve been aware that Mr O was selling his house and 
paying off the mortgage. But I dont think this wouldve reasonably prompted them  to look up 
if there was an early repayment charge.  If anything I think  they wouldve thought that Mr O 
wouldve already  been aware of all the details of his mortgage as it was so late in the 
process. So I dont  think  Bank of Scotland did anything wrong here.
In the call on the day of completion it was too late to change anything. Bank  of Scotland 
made an error in this call as it initially raised Mr Os expectation that he could  port across his 
mortgage and avoid the early repayment  charge. But later in this same call, correctly but for 
the wrong reason, the call handler  told Mr O that he wouldnt be able to do this. Bank  of 
Scotland has paid Mr O £300  for this error. 
Mr O has questioned whether this payment  is recognition  of its mistake with the early  
repayment charge.  Whilst I understand Mr Os view on this, I dont think this is an admission 
that Bank  of Scotland did something wrong  in terms of the early repayment  charge.
Having looked  at the contact points with Bank of Scotland I cant see that it did anything  
wrong in not mentioning the early repayment charge in these calls. Mr O says he wasnt 
made aware  of the charge until the day of completion. But the early  repayment charge was 
detailed in his mortgage documentation, so Bank  of Scotland did make Mr O aware of the 
charge  and this was only a year before. Looking at the events prior to the sale, I cant see 
any situation where Bank of Scotland reasonably wouldve been prompted to tell Mr O about 
the early repayment  charge again.
I understand that house purchases/sales are stressful and it is easy  to overlook things. But I 
think its fair to say that a key aspect in a house purchase/sale and new mortgage 
arrangements is the details of your existing mortgage. If Mr and Mrs O or anyone  acting on 
their behalf  had looked at the details of the existing  mortgage, they wouldve seen that it had 
an early repayment charge. 
This isnt a particularly unusual  condition  on a mortgage, so I dont think Bank  of Scotland  
needed to go to extra lengths to make customers aware of this. And in any event, Mr O 
appears only to have contacted Bank  of Scotland days  before the sale was completed, so it 
wouldve been too late at this point  to change anything even if Bank of Scotland  did mention 
it in the calls.
Mr O has asked that Bank of Scotland  refund  the difference between  the early repayment 
charge he paid, compared to the one that he wouldve paid had he sold the house a month 
later. But I dont think Bank of Scotland has done anything wrong, so it wouldnt be fair to say 
that it should do this.
Had Mr and Mrs O or anyone acting on their behalf contacted Bank of Scotland  to discuss 
their options  in advance of purchasing  the new property, they wouldve been  told about the 
early repayment charge  and porting options. Even without doing  this, had the mortgage 
documentation been checked, they wouldve been alerted to the early repayment  charge. So 
Ref: DRN45117484I cant hold Bank of Scotland responsible because it didnt alert Mr O to the charge in calls 
that focused on administration in the days before the sale was completed.  
Ultimately, Mr O was given information  about the early repayment charge. Im sorry to find 
out this wasnt  picked up before he made  decisions about his new mortgage but I dont  think  
this is Bank  of Scotlands fault. 
So it follows  that I dont  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold this complaint and I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4511748