K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1997 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr D says Bradford and Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold ns Ill explain why.
B&B had to make  Mr D aware the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before adding the 
policy to his mortgage. I cant be certain what  was said at the time the policy  was sold but 
B&B has provided us with a copy of the available paperwork. Within Mr Ds mortgage 
application the option to take PPI was selected by writing the word  yes next to the option to 
take the policy. The application  form was also signed  by Mr D in agreement with the options  
that had been selected. So I  think B&B made  it clear that Mr D didnt have to take out the 
PPI and he chose  to take it out  although  I can understand why he may not remember  this.
From the information available  I cant  see that B&B made a tailored recommendation about 
the policy to Mr D so I dont think it recommended it to him. So it didnt have  to check  if it was 
right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr D got the information he needed  to decide if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information B&B gave Mr D about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take it out knowing the other means he had of making his 
repayments, which he has told us included significant savings. But the PPI would have 
protected Mr Ds savings if he was in a position that he needed to make  a claim. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ds circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means B&B doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But B&B will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
B&B got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  B&B didnt  tell Mr D, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, B&B has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr D has said  including that he was self-employed  when he 
took the policy. But the policy only provided  accident and sickness  cover, and Mr D wouldnt 
Ref: DRN48797742have found it any more difficult than an employed person to make a claim. So these points 
dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
B&B has to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  B&B should also pay back to Mr D any extra  interest he paid because  of 
that.
B&B should  pay back to Mr D the extra he paid each month because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. B&B should also pay Mr D 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr D can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford and Bingley Plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Bradford  and Bingley Plc does  have to pay back to Mr D any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4879774