K821x#15complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with how Union Reiseversicherung AG handled a claim he made  on his 
travel insurance policy. 
background
Mr M was on holiday  in the USA in April 2018  when he was taken to hospital via ambulance 
with chest pains. He had a relevant medical  history as hed previously had a heart attack. 
Mr M recovered and was released from hospital.  He made a claim on his travel insurance 
policy. The hospital  invoiced  Mr M for $39, 048 for his treatment. 
URV accepted the claim and paid $4293.82 to the hospital. That has left an outstanding 
balance of $34, 754.18.  Mr M says that each  month  he received a letter from the hospital. 
Then, he started received calls and emails from a Swiss debt collector, acting on the 
hospitals behalf. Mr M complained to URV.  
In their final response letter URV said that they had made a reasonable payment towards the 
costs. They  said that negotiation of inflated bills was essential  and that all the bills were  
audited to a fair and reasonable settlement  in conjunction with the USA Government 
Guidelines. Unhappy, Mr M made a complaint to our service. He says he is worried  about 
the outstanding balance  and that he might have  to instruct a solicitor.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She asked URV for evidence that theyd 
put a file together which had been  sent to their lawyers so that they could take action against 
the debt collectors.  And, she asked for evidence of the specific  rates  URV have relied on to 
justify the position theyd  taken when deciding not to pay the full bill. Finally,  she asked URV 
to provide evidence  that they were  being charged more  than US insurers  would be. 
URV didnt  provide this information. Our investigator upheld  Mr Ms complaint. She said,  in 
summary, she hadnt seen evidence that the charges from the hospital were inflated and 
there had been  no meaningful negotiation with the hospital.  URV had simply told the hospital 
what to charge. She didnt think this was fair on Mr M as he was caught in the middle  of the 
dispute. She said URV should either pay the claim in full or negotiate with the hospital. She 
recommended URV paid Mr M £300  compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
URV didnt  respond  to the investigators  opinion despite our investigator contacting them  to 
chase up a response. 
After the investigator  issued her opinion Mr M received  an email from the debt collector to 
say that his insurance company hasnt  settled hundreds of unpaid or underpaid bills. The 
email confirmed that the hospital was initiating legal action to recover the money owed  to 
them. It also detailed the solicitor appointed to deal with the case in the USA.  
In November 2020 I issued a provisional decision which said:  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances. Im minded to uphold  this complaint and award 
£650 compensation to Mr M. Ill explain why.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for
Businesses (Principles), which URV must  follow, including:
Ref: DRN43636202Principle 6 - A firm must  pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and 
treat them fairly.
Principle 8 - A firm must  manage  conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself 
and its customers and between a customer and another client.
The relevant  regulations  also include ICOBS  8.1.1R which says an insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and 
appropriate information on its progress;
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a 
policy); and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The Regulatory Guide,  published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities  of 
Providers and Distributors  for the Fair Treatment  of Customers  (RPPD) includes the 
Regulators guidance on what the combination of Principles and the detailed  rules 
mean for providers and distributors of financial services. The RPPD explains that 
firms should consider the impact of their actions, or inactions, on the customer  
throughout the life-cycle of the service being provided.
Ive also taken into account what I consider having  been good industry practice  at the 
time of the claim. This was for underwriters of travel insurance - and their agents - to 
engage diligently  with healthcare providers  to try to resolve disputes over medical  
bills by actively seeking a compromise or adjudication  of their bills. That includes 
actively engaging  in negotiation.
The terms of Mr Ms policy say URV  can:
take over and deal with in your name the defence/settlement of any claim 
made under the policy 
subrogate against the responsible party  and take proceedings in your name 
but at our expense  to recover  for our benefit  the amount of any payment 
made under the policy
So, its for URV to take over the conduct  of a claim against its policyholders. But, it 
has a responsibility  to act in good  faith when it takes over the defence or settlement 
of a claim.  This means having regard to Mr Ms interests  as well as its own.  This 
forms part of URVs regulatory responsibilities, as Ive set out above.
Mr Ms claim
URV paid the hospital who treated Mr M in June 2018, just a few months  after hed 
been treated.  It paid what it assessed to be reasonable based on the cost rate as 
determined by the US Congress plus a percentage uplift which it has disclosed to our 
service and the hospital. 
I cant say whether the amounts paid were reasonable  URV  hasnt  provided  
information about the guidelines it relied on in Mr Ms case or provided evidence that 
Ref: DRN43636203they were being  charged much more than US insurers. But its clear  that the sums 
paid by URV were  far less than the amount the hospital was charging.
I understand that URV doesnt want to pay exaggerated costs. But URV would have 
been aware that it was unlikely that the hospital  would  accept the payment in 
settlement of their invoices. So, I would have expected to see evidence  that URV 
attempted to carry out cost containment negotiations, but there is no such evidence  
in this case.
Alternatively, URV could  have sought  to ascertain the proper amount of the bill by a
dispute resolution process such as by mediation,  arbitration or litigation. Again, there 
is no evidence that URV  has taken  any steps  of that kind. When  asked,  URV  hasnt 
provided evidence  that its solicitors are involved in dealing with Mr Ms outstanding 
invoice. Rather, notwithstanding the fact that it was aware the total settlement was 
less than 15% of the amount invoiced,  it appears  to have considered  the matter  
settled.
Unsurprisingly the hospital didnt consider the matter  settled and instructed a debt 
collection agency to recover the outstanding amount of $34, 754.18. The debt 
collector contacted  Mr M by email and phone directly and informed her that she was 
responsible for the charges. 
Although Mr M received assurances  from URV he wasnt  responsible  for the 
outstanding amount hes understandably worried  given that the sum of money  
involved is significant. Hes mentioned that he feels he might  need to get a lawyer  
involved. 
In its final response to Mr M, URV advised  that when dealing with hospitals in the 
United States negotiation of bills is essential  But URV still didnt enter into 
negotiations in order to settle the debt. 
I find the fact that URV made no attempt to negotiate with the hospital or its agent  
and no other  attempt to have  the amount of the debt ascertained by any form of 
dispute resolution process, contrary to both the regulatory guidance and good 
industry practice. In addition, it shows no regard for Mr M s interests.
Despite its assurances to him, URV  was aware that Mr M was being  pursued by a 
debt collector on behalf  of the hospital  but even then took no action to reach  a 
settlement or have  the amount of that debt determined. And as Ive noted above, this 
caused Mr M distress.
Im not persuaded that URV has acted fairly and reasonably in the way in which its 
taken over the handling of the defence or settlement of the hospitals bill. When 
making this finding,  Ive taken into account  that it may have been possible for URV to 
negotiate a reduction in the amounts charged by the hospital and agree a figure less 
than the outstanding amount. This would have spared Mr M K worry  and anxiety. I 
think the way in which URV conducted  the settlement and defence of the claim has 
failed to pay due regard to the interests  of Mr M. Im satisfied this has contributed  to 
his worry.
I have seriously considered directing  URV to pay the hospital bill in full, so as to bring 
this matter to a conclusion for Mr M. But I am conscious that the bill is a sizeable  one 
Ref: DRN43636204and that it may be that URV has grounds for obtaining a significant  reduction 
(although it hasnt provided  anything like enough evidence in supporting  of its 
position for me to reach any finding  to that effect).
On balance, I dont  think that the stage has yet been  reached in URVs handling of 
this claim where I should direct it to pay this bill in full. I consider that it is fair and 
reasonable to give URV a further opportunity  to handle  the negotiation or 
ascertainment of the debt more appropriately  than it has so far in order  to fix and pay 
Mr Ms liability. So, I intend to limit my award  in respect of URVs mishandling of the 
matter up to the present date to monetary  redress for the damage.
Im satisfied that compensation is due for the worry that this matter  has caused Mr M. 
I think the sum of £650 fairly compensates  him for the trouble and upset caused to 
him by URVs handling of the claim so far  that is for its conduct up until the date of 
my final decision.
However, URVs duties in relation to its handing of Mr Ms claim dont end with this 
decision, as the matter  of the outstanding bill remains live. The hospital will doubtless 
continue to seek payment  of its bill and may well commence litigation to achieve  this. 
It remains URVs responsibility  to take active steps to resolve this matter expediently 
and in a manner that has due regard to Mr Ms interests and treats  him fairly. In the 
interests of all concerned,  I urge URV to take its continuing duties  to Mr M very 
seriously.
Because URVs duties  continue, the manner in which  it handles  the claim hereafter 
may give Mr M grounds  for a further  complaint to this service.  In particular, if after the 
date of this decision  URV  doesnt take active steps to ascertain  the amount of the 
debts and discharge any outstanding bills in a fair and reasonable manner, such 
future unreasonable conduct is very likely  to result in further worry for Mr M and in a 
further complaint  to this service. (Any such  further  complaint would  have to be based  
upon URVs conduct of the claim after the date of this decision,  as opposed to during 
the period that I have considered.) 
I hope that this will not occur, as the intention behind my decision is to give URV 
another chance to prosecute its settlement or defence  of the debts diligently.  As  we 
are a service which tries to resolve disputes with the minimum of formality, I will add 
a few words of warning  and encouragement. In my view, in light of this decision, Mr 
M can reasonably expect  URV to start driving  very hard to have the bill settled or 
adjudicated as quickly as possible.  If doesnt do that, or if there are further failings of 
any other sort, URV  may be at heightened risk (amongst  other  things) of receiving a 
direction to pay the bills in full (litigation or no litigation).   
Id expect URV to ensure that, even it takes steps such  as litigation, they are 
proactive and ensure that matters dont come to a standstill or stall. But URVs future 
conduct would be a matter for a different ombudsman to decide in all the 
circumstances. In particular, I would myself expect URV to take account  of Mr Ms 
views on matters that affect him, such as how to bring the matter to a rapid 
conclusion; and if litigation  is under way, as to the choice of tactics for achieving that 
end.   
Ref: DRN43636205I invited Mr M and URV to make  any further  representations  before  I made  my final decision. 
URV accepted my provisional decision. Mr M confirmed hed received the decision and didnt 
make any further comments.  So, I now need  to make my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has made any further  comments or presented any further  evidence.  So theres 
no need for me to reach any different  conclusions  from those which I reached in my 
provisional decision. For the same reasons I set out in my provisional decision Im upholding 
Mr Ms complaint and direct URV  to pay Mr M £650  compensation. 
I remain satisfied that compensation is due for the worry that this matter has caused Mr M. I 
think the sum of £650 fairly  compensates  him for the trouble and upset caused to him by 
URVs handling of the claim so far  that is for its conduct up until the date of my final 
decision.
As I outlined  in my provisional decision URVs duties in relation to its handing of Mr Ms 
claim dont  end with this decision, as the matter  of the outstanding bill remains  live. The 
hospital will doubtless continue to seek  payment of its bill and may well commence  litigation  
to achieve this. It remains URVs responsibility  to take active  steps to resolve this matter  
expediently and in a manner that has due regard to Mr Ms interests and treats  him fairly.  In 
the interests of all concerned, I urge URV  to take its continuing duties to Mr M very seriously.
Because URVs duties  continue, the manner in which  it handles  the claim hereafter may give 
Mr M grounds for a further complaint to this service.  In particular, if after the date of this 
decision URV doesnt take active  steps  to ascertain the amount of the debts and discharge 
any outstanding  bills in a fair and reasonable manner,  such future unreasonable conduct is 
very likely to result in further worry for Mr M and in a further complaint to this service. (Any 
such further complaint  would have to be based  upon  URVs conduct  of the claim after the 
date of this decision, as opposed to during the period that I have considered.) 
As I said in my provisional decision I hope  that this will not occur, as the intention behind  my 
decision is to give URV another chance to prosecute its settlement or defence of the debts  
diligently.  As we are a service which tries to resolve  disputes  with the minimum of formality, 
I will add a few words  of warning and encouragement. In my view, in light of this decision, 
Mr M can reasonably expect URV to start driving very hard to have the bill settled or 
adjudicated as quickly as possible.  If doesnt do that, or if there are further failings of any 
other sort, URV may be at heightened  risk (amongst other things) of receiving a direction to 
pay the bills in full (litigation or no litigation).    
Id expect URV to ensure that, even it takes steps such  as litigation, they are proactive and 
ensure that matters  dont come to a standstill or stall. But URVs future conduct would be a 
matter for a different ombudsman to decide in all the circumstances. In particular,  I would 
myself expect URV to take account  of Mr Ms views on matters that affect him, such as how 
to bring the matter  to a rapid  conclusion; and if litigation is under way, as to the choice of 
tactics for achieving that end.   
Ref: DRN43636206my final decision
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint and direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things right in 
the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2021.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4363620