K822xcomplaint
Mr D is unhappy Provident  Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma Loans  (Provident) 
intends to use the compensation its offered him following a complaint about five instalment 
loans to reduce  the amount he owes on the account.
background 
Mr D initially complained about five instalment loans Provident provided to him between  July 
2014 and September 2016. Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ds complaint in part and thought  
loans 3 to 5 shouldnt have been  given. Provident  agreed with what  our adjudicator had said 
and made  an offer for loans 3 to 5. 
Loan 5 has not been paid in full and so has an outstanding balance.  So Provident calculated  
the compensation for loans 3 to 5 and said it would  be used to reduce the outstanding 
balance for loan 5. Mr D didnt agree with this.
He said he wasnt aware that loan 5 was still outstanding  he thought it had been paid and 
closed as he hadnt heard  from Provident.  He also said that the compensation for loans 3 to 
5 should be paid to him directly and a payment  plan put in place to repay  loan 5. Our 
adjudicator told Mr D that its fair and reasonable for Provident to use the compensation to 
reduce the outstanding balance on loan 5.
As Mr D remains unhappy, the complaint has now been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Firstly, Provident has agreed  with our adjudicators assessment about loans 3 to 5 about  
irresponsible lending,  and Mr D hasnt disagreed with our adjudicators  assessment about  
the same. So I only need decide whether or not what Provident  has offered to do to put 
things right is fair. Having  done so, I think what Provident has proposed  to do is fair. I know  
this will come as a disappointment to Mr D, so I would  like to take this opportunity to explain 
why.
At this point it might help for me to explain that when a business  accepts (or we decide) it 
shouldnt have given  a loan to a consumer, wed expect it to put the consumer in the position  
theyd be in now if they hadnt  had to pay any interest and charges on that loan. A business 
will usually refund the interest and charges added to the loan  and also add 8% simple 
interest per year where the consumer  paid the interest and charges.
Provident has worked out that the interest  and charges   plus 8% simple interest  for loans 
3 to 5 to be £382.13. It says that it wont be paying this to Mr D. Instead  it plans to use this 
amount to reduce the amount Mr D still owes on loan 5. An outstanding balance of £243.81 
will remain  payable for Mr D to pay. 
The ombudsman services approach on this is that a refund is only due to be paid to a 
consumer if and when  they have repaid more than the principal sum borrowed.  So with 
Ref: DRN45135832this complaint, we dont  think it would be fair or reasonable to pay a refund when an 
outstanding principal balance is due even  on loans which Mr D has been  able to repay.
Provident has evidenced that loan 5 has an outstanding balance that has not been paid 
back. So until this amount  has been paid back,  Provident is still out of pocket for this 
money. 
Ive thought about this carefully  and I have to be fair to both parties here. And I dont think 
that it would  be fair and reasonable for me to tell Provident to pay Mr D the compensation 
directly. I havent seen anything else to suggest that the compensation should  be paid to Mr 
D directly. So it seems  fair that one amount  should  be set against the other.
So overall I think what Provident has offered to do is fair and Im not going to ask it to pay  
Mr D any money.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont  uphold Mr Ds complaint.  I think  what  Provident  
Personal Credit Limited agreed to do to put things right for Mr D is fair. So I dont think 
it needs to do anymore.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2020
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4513583