K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont let him apply for a new credit card 
account unless  he gives a mobile  phone  number and e-mail  address. He thinks  NatWest 
insisting that he gives this information  is unreasonable, bullying and discriminatory.
background
Mr B was charged for using his existing NatWest abroad.  Mr B often travelled abroad  and 
believed he wouldnt be charged  if he used his card. He was told he could apply for a 
different NatWest credit card account  which didnt charge for foreign transactions.  But when 
he tried to apply for it, he couldnt complete the application process  unless he gave a mobile 
phone number and email address, which Mr B thinks  is an unreasonable  request  for 
personal information.
Mr B is conscious that a significant population of bank customers  wont  have a mobile phone 
number and/or email  address. He thinks NatWest  is discriminating  unfairly.  So he withheld  
this information   which meant he couldnt complete the application  and complained to the 
bank instead.  Mr B considers the bank  already  has enough of his personal information not to 
also need his mobile phone number  and email address.  And because  he doesnt feel 
confident it can keep them secure,  he withdrew  consent to NatWest holding  his mobile 
phone number and email address.
After complaining to NatWest, Mr B then brought his complaint to us. It was considered by 
one of our investigators  and he explained that he didnt think  there  were  sufficient grounds to 
uphold the complaint. The investigator thought NatWest took a commercial decision  to ask 
customers for a mobile number and an email address and it wasnt for this service  to 
question commercial decisions that the bank  is entitled to make.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked for the complaint to be reviewed. 
It has therefore been assigned to me so a decision  can be issued. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr B has very strong feelings  about  this matter. Ive listened to and considered  
conversations between him and NatWests  complaint  handlers  and Ive also listened to his call 
with our investigator  during which he gave  detailed submissions to support his complaint. 
However, I trust that he will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus in this decision not 
on every  point he makes but on what I consider  to be the central issues.
In some of his comments, Mr B has expanded the issues to include reference  to others and 
raised the potential  impact on them. Im not going to address those areas, as Im considering 
whether NatWest acted  fairly in relation to Mr B, not others. 
Mr B says that NatWest  bullied and discriminated against him, as it wouldnt consider his 
credit card application unless he gave a mobile phone number and email address. Mr B 
hasnt been more specific when saying NatWest  discriminated against  him. Not all forms of 
discrimination are unlawful  for example, where it can be shown that the treatment is a 
proportionate means  of achieving a legitimate aim. 
Having listened  to Mr Bs calls to our investigator  and to NatWests complaint handlers, Ive 
heard him refer to having both a mobile phone number  and an email address. So this isnt a 
matter of NatWest needing make  reasonable adjustments  because Mr B is unable to fulfil its 
Ref: DRN44808782standard terms. Im left, therefore, to consider  whether  its fair for NatWest to require he 
gives this information  as part of its application process. I think it is  Ill explain why.
Its common practice for credit  card providers to use fraud detection  systems that flag 
transactions which need confirming as genuine.  And such  security measures, in place to 
protect customers, often  include  attempting to urgently contact cardholders  to minimise any 
inconvenience  for example, to prevent the blocking of legitimate transactions or to ensure 
fraudulent activity is blocked. Their effectiveness would be vastly reduced if credit  card 
providers could only communicate by post or by calling customers  landline  number and 
having to rely on finding them in. 
In this case, I cant ignore that Mr B says he travels abroad several times a year and he was 
due to travel  within  a few weeks  of making  his application. If NatWest needed to contact him 
urgently whilst he was away, it couldnt. It would have to wait until he returned  home   
potentially inconveniencing Mr B if it had to block his card or worst case,  leave him exposed 
to fraudulent activity.  
NatWest is subject to certain  legal  and regulatory  requirements, which  can be summarised 
as the need to act as a responsible, sustainable and secure lender. So, it has a legitimate 
aim in trying  to ensure  that it protects its customers  accounts from fraudulent  activity. Im not 
convinced NatWest requiring customers to provide  a mobile phone number and an email 
address is a disproportionate means  to keeping  its customers accounts secure.
NatWest has taken  a commercial decision to ask customers  for a mobile number and an 
email address  as its entitled to do. For the reasons Ive given, I think  it is reasonable to 
ask for such  information. And, given Mr B can fulfil these terms and that he hasnt  told us of 
any protected characteristics which require reasonable adjustment, I think NatWest  has 
acted fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint  and I dont ask National  
Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Stefan Riedel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4480878