K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that BUPA Insurance Limited wont  restore  his low claims bonus (LCB) 
under his private medical insurance policy after this was affected by the late submission of 
an invoice by his treatment provider. 
background
The premium for Mr Rs policy  at each renewal was subject  to the LCB.  This was based on 
claims made  in the first ten months of the policy year immediately before the renewal and 
the last two months of the policy year before that. If Mr R had made no claims in the relevant 
twelve month period,  Mr Rs premium at renewal would be discounted by 6%. If hed made 
claims totalling up to £250,  it would be discounted  by 3%.
In March 2017, Mr R underwent chiropractic treatment costing £90 for which  BUPA had 
agreed to provide cover.
On 5 August  2017, Mr Rs policy renewed.
In June 2018, BUPA sent Mr R renewal documents  in advance  of the policys  renewal on 
5 August 2018.  Mr R noted he was receiving only a 3% discount to his premium through the 
LCB. He questioned this with BUPA, pointing out that hed made no claims during the 
previous twelve months. Hed therefore expected to receive a 6% discount.
BUPA explained that it hadnt  received the chiropractors invoice until 16 June 2017 and had 
settled this a few days later. This was too late to be included in the LCB for the purposes of 
calculating the new premium in August 2017  and had instead been included in the LCB for 
calculating the premium in August 2018.
Mr R thought this was unfair and that he was being  penalised for the late submission of the 
invoice by the chiropractor. He complained to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He accepted that 
Mr R wasnt responsible for the delay in the chiropractor submitting the invoice  but he was 
nonetheless satisfied that, in calculating the LCB, BUPA  had acted fairly and in accordance  
with the terms of the policy.  
Mr R didnt accept the investigators findings.  He still felt he was being  penalised  to the value 
of 3% of his premium for something which was not his fault. He also commented that, 
despite being a BUPA member for many years  and paying a premium  of several thousand  
pounds, BUPA had shown him no goodwill over his situation.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter was passed to me for a decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I appreciate  it will 
be a disappointment to Mr R, I dont uphold this complaint. I shall explain why.
When BUPA  sent Mr R his renewal  documents each year, it enclosed a leaflet explaining 
how the LCB operated.  This leaflet  states:
Ref: DRN42583732Your Low Claims  Bonus  will be based  on claims received, that we have approved for 
payment during the first 10 months of your then current policy year and the last two months 
of the policy  year before that. For example,  when  you renew your policy on 1 August 2017, 
your Low Claims  Bonus  will be based  on claims received, that we have approved for 
payment (less any excess) between 1 June 2016 and 31 May 2017.
Im satisfied that this makes clear how the LCB operates and, in particular, that the critical 
date is the date on which BUPA makes payment of a claim rather  than the date treatment 
was received. I dont  find these terms to be inherently unfair.
Because BUPA didnt pay Mr Rs claim until less than two months before his policy was due 
to renew in August 2017, it meant the claim couldnt  be taken into account  for the purposes 
of the LCB at that renewal. Im therefore  satisfied that BUPA applied the terms of the LCB 
correctly when it instead took the claim into account  when  it calculated his premium  at the 
renewal in August  2018.
I appreciate that this was frustrating for Mr R who understood  he would be receiving a 
discount of 6% on his premium. However, it seems  the delay was due to the chiropractor 
being relatively slow in sending his invoice  to BUPA rather than any delay on the part of 
BUPA in processing  that invoice. I therefore cant reasonably say that BUPA is at fault in this 
matter.
I note Mr Rs comments about  the lack of goodwill  which  he considers BUPA  has shown 
towards him. I recognise he is annoyed  about  what he sees  as BUPAs inflexibility. However, 
in the end it is up to BUPA to decide whether to exercise its discretion in favour  of Mr R and I 
dont feel I can reasonably compel it to do so.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4258373