K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  sold to Miss B in 2003  
with a loan she took out. The issue about whether or not this PPI policy  was mis-sold has 
already been addressed, in that the bank  concerned  agreed  that it had.
However, Miss Bs complaint specifically  concerns  the administration  of the PPI, in 
particular, how her claim for being off work ill, was handled. So whilst  I note that although 
Miss B is generally unhappy with the bank which sold her the policy (and its insurance  arm) 
the actual claim administrator in her case was a company called Monument Insurance.
It has agreed to respond to Miss Bs complaint.
background
Miss B says she was led to believe the PPI would  pay completely off her loan if she ever 
made a successful claim on it. She says because her loan wasnt completely paid off in this 
way, she has suffered significant  financial  hardship. 
She also says she wasnt kept informed about  her loan later defaulting and being handed 
over to a debt collection agency.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Miss Bs complaint points and issued a view that we 
shouldnt uphold them.  Miss B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
We now know Miss B did make a successful claim on her PPI policy - for being off ill from 
work between 2003 and 2005. And as per the policy rules, the insurer  paid her a monthly 
sum during this period;  some £3,839.75 was paid to help her continue to service the loan.
We also know that Miss B paid quite a bit less than this amount for the PPI policy she was 
sold with her loan. So, in accordance with these types of situation - even though the bank 
later agreed it hadnt done everything  correctly  during the sale  Miss B wasnt due any more  
money back. Thats because the £3,839.75  she got to help pay her loan repayments whilst 
she was off sick from work, is considerably more than she ever paid for the PPI in the first 
place. 
Put simply, Miss B hasnt lost out any money by having PPI so the bank correctly 
determined, in my view, that she wasnt due anything back  for the mis-sale.  It said she had 
benefitted more  by having received the all claim  payments amounting  to £3,839.75.
Our adjudicator explained that this was normal procedure. Consumers who were  mis-sold 
this type of protection should be put back in the position theyd have been in if they hadnt  
taken the PPI cover out. Typically, this would mean  them getting back all the monthly  
premiums they paid, plus interest. Im afraid consumers  in similar situations that Miss B was 
in are not entitled to receive money  for claiming  and all the premiums  they paid. This is 
Ref: DRN49229962because this could  result in some  people receiving considerably more money than they ever 
paid in.
Miss B makes  some  other  points  of complaint. For example, she says she was led to believe 
that making a claim on the PPI would result  in the whole  loan being cleared completely. 
Ive thought carefully about this and whilst  I dont  doubt  she may have hoped this would be 
the case, Im afraid this isnt how this type of insurance works and this would have been 
explained in the policy rules. I think taking  out PPI covering against  her either losing her job 
or being ill would have  enabled Miss B to understand that that there would  normally  be a 
time limit on how long such claim payments would continue for. I also think  Miss B would 
have become aware that once the claim period had ceased, her loan repayments  needed to 
be re-addressed  again.
I say all this because Ive been shown two letters Miss B was sent about this by the bank,  
after her claim  payments had stopped. To me the letters say clearly  that her loan is starting  
to default and she should contact the bank. I note the letters were sent in February, and 
again April 2006.  Miss B says she didnt receive these. But Ive also seen a similar letter  
from December 2004 suggesting Miss B was experiencing  challenges in servicing her loan.  
Whilst I dont doubt  her honesty,  I need to acknowledge  that these events are now many 
years ago and she may not remember getting  the letters.  They  appear to be correctly  
addressed and we know,  for example, that correctly  addressed letters in the UK mostly 
arrive safely and on time. I also find it unlikely that all of these letters didnt find their way 
through to Miss B.
Miss B questions whether these were  ever sent. But in my view,  it would be in the banks 
interest to send these  letters out to try to recover its money. Weve been sent copies of the 
letters and I think they explain  what Miss B ought  to do.
To summarise then, Im afraid I havent seen any evidence to support Miss Bs assertion that 
she was told that making  a claim for being  off ill would result in the whole loan being 
completely paid. I dont  think  that is a reasonable or credible expectation and I think  the rules  
of the PPI would  have  explained this fairly clearly.
I also find that the number of letters,  how they were addressed  and how they were worded, 
would have clearly  alerted  Miss B to potential problems with her loan repayments  and that it 
could be passed  on to a debt agency to be recovered. I think it was open to her to engage 
with the bank and / or insurer to address these issues or at least  understand she had certain 
responsibilities.
Im sorry  we cant  agree on this but Im afraid  my final decision is that Monument Insurance 
hasnt done anything wrong.
Ref: DRN49229963my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont  direct  Monument 
Insurance to do anything  else.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4922996