K820x#14summary and background of complaint 
Mrs E says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) didnt ask her if she wanted 
payment protection insurance policy (PPI). So she didnt know shed been sold it. 
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out to protect a Dorothy Perkins 
store card in 1995.
The PPI was sold to Mrs E by a third party but FICL have accepted responsibility for this 
complaint. Ill refer to FICL as the seller to keep  things  simple. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Es case.
I note Mrs Es point that she hasnt  complained  about the mis-sale of PPI  but that she 
doesnt remember asking  for PPI, and had she been asked, she wouldve refused it. And 
thats because  she didnt need it. 
But if I found that her complaint points were  valid  or that something else had gone wrong 
with the sale  I would conclude that her policy was mis-sold.  So for that reason, Im satisfied 
this complaint is about whether Mrs E was mis-sold PPI. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Es complaint. I know this will disappoint her and Ill explain 
why.
FICL have  given me a copy of Mrs Es signed  store card application. Theres a section here 
headed PROTECTION FOR YOUR  PAYMENTS & PURCHASE COVER. This is then 
followed by a broad description of the PPI cover. After this wording theres  a box that has 
been ticked next to some  wording that says Yes, I want my account covered by payment 
Protection...  
I can see that Mrs E feel strongly that she didnt know PPI had been added to her store card 
account. But I have  to make my decision based  on the evidence I do have. And having done  
that, I think its most likely  FICL made  Mrs E aware that she had a choice about  buying the 
PPI, and that she chose  to take it. Ultimately Mrs E had a responsibility to check what she 
was signing for. 
I note Mrs Es point on whether theres any indication of who sold her the policy and if there  
is, that they should give a statement to say they explained the consequences of signing up 
for PPI. Ive already said Mrs E had a responsibility to check what she was signing for. And, 
Im not sure given the sale took place  over 23 years ago theyd be able to remember this 
particular sale. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs E so it didnt  have  to check if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to provide clear  information about  it.  
Ref: DRN47459852I accept, as Mrs E suggests,  that its possible the information FICL gave her about  the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But its unlikely  Mrs E wouldve been affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover. And based  on what I know  about her circumstances  
including what shes said about her employer sick pay  it looks like the policy  couldve been  
useful to her. So I dont  think  better  information  wouldve stopped  her buying it.
Ive taken into account Mrs Es comments,  including what  shes said about her savings. But 
she hasnt been  able to give us much  more information about this. I also note she says her 
husband and family  couldve helped her financially. But help from others cant be 
guaranteed. 
So these points dont  change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.  
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4745985