K820x#14complaint
Miss D is unhappy about how Gain Credit  LLC (trading  as Lending Stream) reported the 
status of her loan to credit reference  agencies  (CRAs).  Miss D also says Lending Stream 
added extra interest when she was in financial difficulty. 
background
Miss D complained to Lending Stream because she felt it was wrong Lending Stream  had 
reported the status of her loan to the CRAs as being in an arrangement to pay (ATP).  
Miss D says she didnt enter  into an ATP with Lending Stream,  so the information  reported is 
incorrect.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Ds complaint. Miss D didnt agree with the adjudicators 
view, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
As a starting point,  the information Lending Stream reports about Miss Ds loan to CRAs  
must be fair, accurate, consistent, complete  and up to date. So when Miss D didnt make the 
scheduled repayments, it ought  to have been expected  that this would  be reflected in what 
was reported to the CRAs.
Miss D made arrangements to make payments to Lending Stream  which  were different  to 
those specified  in her credit agreement.  So I dont  think Lending Stream  has acted  
incorrectly or unfairly by reporting this as an ATP to the CRAs.
Miss D has said that Lending  Stream didnt make  it clear her credit file would  be affected. 
Lending Stream hasnt  been able to provide a copy of the relevant call recordings, so I cant 
be sure of exactly what was said but it has provided  a transcript of a call on 15 October 
2019. 
The transcript doesnt make it clear to me that Lending Stream  told Miss D exactly how the 
arrangement would be reported  (theres no specific reference to reporting  an ATP) but does 
make several mentions  of the arrangement  having an effect  on her credit file. Miss D 
proceeded with the arrangement  presumably having had little choice at the time  so it 
seems likely she would have at least been aware  there would be some effect on her credit 
history. It therefore seems unlikely that, had Lending  Stream explicitly mentioned  how the 
arrangement would be reported,  Miss D would have made a different decision.
Miss D mentioned to the adjudicator that shed accept  if the payments had been  marked  as 
late, instead of being  in an ATP. I dont think that would be the correct position.  Nor do I think  
it would  actually improve things for Miss D  it would simply substitute  one adverse piece of 
information with a different adverse piece of information.
Finally, I dont think Miss D was really charged  any significant extra interest during this 
period. The original amount due on Miss Ds loan was £492.74  the loan was for £300,  so 
had everything gone  to plan, Miss D would have  paid £192.74 in interest. The total amount 
Ref: DRN45172242of interest Miss D actually  paid was £193.91 - £1.17 more than originally scheduled, which  
isnt unreasonable given  that most of her payments were made  late and so extra interest 
could therefore  have been applied  to the balance.  It seems  that, except for the small amount 
mentioned, no extra  interest was added due to Miss Ds payments being  late.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2020.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4517224