K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium loan payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  
taken out in November 2000. Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading  as Halifax) 
mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Mr and Mrs B took out a joint loan for £6,000  over five years. The PPI policy  covered Mr B 
only and cost £12.47 per month for £132.63  per month of cover.  It wouldve covered their 
loan repayment  in full. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs B said they werent  told PPI was optional. But, I think Halifax probably  
made it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why they may not remember this after so 
much time.
Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs B remember. But, Ive also looked at the 
loan agreement they signed  when  they took out the loan. There  was a yes box to 
select PPI and a no box to decline PPI. Mr and Mrs B have selected the box to take 
PPI. The loan agreement  gives  details of the cost of the PPI. Mr and Mrs B have both 
signed the loan agreement.
So, on balance, I cant fairly say that Halifax  didnt  make Mr and Mrs B aware that 
PPI was optional  or that they didnt  consent to taking  it out. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for their needs. As this was a joint loan, Ive  taken into account Mrs Bs 
circumstances too when deciding this complaint, even though only Mr B was covered 
under the policy.  Based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances  at the time,  I think 
that the policy was suitable. I say this because:
oMr B was eligible  to take out PPI and I cant see that it was unaffordable;
oI cant see that Mr B was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover. As he couldve  benefitted  from everything the policy offered, I dont 
think having more  information about  these things wouldve likely led to him 
not taking out the cover;.   
oMr B said he wouldve got sick pay from work;  six months at full pay and six 
months at half. He said he had redundancy and death in service cover also. I 
cant see that he had duplicate cover. And the PPI wouldve paid out on top of 
his work  benefits  for up to 12 months for a successful  unemployment  claim 
and for up to the duration of the loan (5 years), for a successful  accident or 
sickness claim.  So, I think PPI couldve provided them  with long term 
protection over and above Mr Bs work  benefits. I think this wouldve been 
Ref: DRN44988192important to them given  this was a secured loan and if they defaulted their 
home was at risk.  So, I think  that the recommendation  to take PPI was 
suitable and the policy was right for Mr and Mrs B. 
oMrs B was working. But, her income  couldve been used to meet their other 
household expenses at what might be a difficult time for them  financially if 
Mr B wasnt  working.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. The cost of the policy was shown  including  the monthly 
amount of the premium, and the total cost.  The premium didnt carry interest. So, I 
think from this Mr and Mrs B wouldve understood how much extra the PPI was 
costing them a month.
Overall, I think that Mr and Mrs B chose to take it out PPI - so it looks  like they 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful for them  if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B have  said, but these points dont change my 
view. I dont think this policy  was mis-sold and therefore Halifax doesnt have to do anything 
to put things right. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4498819