K821x#15complaint
Ms T complains M3W Limited gave incorrect advice about the amount she insured her 
buildings for (sum insured).  As a result she was underinsured when she claimed  for damage 
to her property after a fire. 
Ms T is being represented in bringing  this complaint. But for ease Ive referred  to all actions 
and comments as being those of Ms T. 
background
M3W had arranged Ms Ts insurance for a number of years.  In December 2016 there was a 
fire at her property which affected one of the outbuildings. She submitted a claim for damage 
caused by the fire to her insurer. She received a pay out of around £7,000.  But this was only 
45.5% of the total claim amount, as the insurer said Ms T was significantly underinsured.
Ms T complained to M3W  and said it had mis-sold  the policy.  She said it didnt do enough to 
make sure she had an adequate level of cover for the property. She said shed arranged 
insurance through it for many years and it hadnt  told her how to make  sure her property was 
fully insured. She said the renewal documents  were sent every year but she wasnt told to 
check what the amount  insured was, or whether that would be adequate to cover  the rebuild 
costs of her property.
M3W said it was the responsibility  of Ms T to read the documents and to make sure that 
cover was adequate.  It said the policy had been set up in 2005, and the sum insured had 
been index-linked, to grow every year with inflation. So it didnt think  it had done anything 
wrong and it wasnt responsible for Ms T being underinsured.
Our investigator said M3W  had a responsibility to ask Ms T a clear question  around what  the 
sum insured should be. She said she didnt think M3W had made it clear that the sum 
insured should  include  the full cost of a rebuild to her property. So she thought M3W should 
pay the shortfall between  what the insurer paid Ms T and the full value of the claim. 
M3W said it wouldve asked Ms T about her sum insured when she renewed her insurance. 
It didnt agree it had done anything wrong.  So  the matter has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms T has also brought  a complaint to our service against the insurer. I wont be looking at 
the actions of the insurer in my findings  here.  This decision  will focus solely on the actions of 
M3W as Ms Ts broker. 
Ms T first took out the insurance through M3W  in 2005. But Im unable  to look at the actions 
of M3W  at this time,  as it wasnt regulated to sell insurance in 2005. So I cant look at 
whether it asked Ms T a clear question  in relation to her sum insured in 2005  when the policy 
was first set up.
Ref: DRN41501912However, I can look at the actions  it took at renewal  when  it was regulated in 2013. The 
relevant renewal in this case was in 2016 as this is the policy  that was in force  when the fire 
struck Ms Ts property.  
Its not clear whether  M3W provided an advised sale, or an information only one. The 
renewal documents  say it is responsible  for finding  Ms T a suitable insurance policy,  which  
suggests it was an advised sale. But even if it only provided information to Ms T, I dont think 
it did enough to enable her to ensure the sum insured was suitable  for her. So M3W should 
pay the shortfall between  the value of the claim,  and the amount she received  from the 
insurer. Ive explained  why below.
I agree  with the investigator that M3W should ask a clear question. And when asking  if the 
sum insured is sufficient  to cover Ms Ts property, it should also make clear  that this amount 
needs to cover the cost of clearing and rebuilding  the site.
M3W has provided me with its renewals process  and the letters it sent Ms T when her policy 
was up for renewal. The process document isnt dated, so I cant be sure it was used  when 
Ms T renewed  her policy in 2016.  
Its renewals process says three weeks prior to the renewal date it will receive the new quote 
from the insurer, requote the existing details  and send it to Ms T.  
Ive seen a renewal letter sent to Ms T in 2015,  it doesnt say Ms T needs to check  her sum 
insured is adequate. It only invites  her to get in touch if there have been any changes  to her 
circumstances. I havent  seen the letter from the 2016 renewal, but I think its likely this 
would have said the same, given M3W has confirmed this is its process.  
There is another part of the renewal process which says:
When a client contacts us
check with the client  if any changes and that sums insured are still sufficient 
for needs
M3W has provided me with a copy of what it says it would have asked Ms T in relation to her 
sum insured. And I think had it asked  those questions, it would have met its obligations  in 
terms of making clear to Ms T that her sum insured needed to include the cost of clearing 
and rebuilding the site. But based  on what Ive seen,  Im not satisfied the evidence suggests  
Ms T was asked to check any of this.
There is no record of Ms T contacting M3W following the renewal letter  in 2016. M3W has 
provided a copy of its contact notes  with Ms T and in 2016  the only recorded contact from 
the time of renewal  says sent renewal.  Ms  T says she didnt get in touch as nothing had 
changed that she thought  M3W needed to be aware of. There is nothing else to suggest 
M3W spoke to Ms T before  the policy renewed. I accept Ms T must have got in touch to 
confirm she wanted  to renew. M3W says its customers would usually renew  over the phone  
or by coming in to the office, and it is at this point it would check  cover  and sums insured are 
adequate.
But I havent been provided  with any detail about  any conversation  that took place. And 
there are no recorded notes of the conversation. Ms T has said she wasnt  asked any 
questions about  whether  her insurance  cover  was sufficient. The next contact noted from Ms 
T, after the renewal was sent, was when she reported the fire.  So M3W  hasnt shown its 
Ref: DRN41501913followed its process of asking if the sum insured is still sufficient for her needs.  It also seems 
M3W would only ask this question if Ms T had proactively got in touch with it to discuss  her 
insurance. So I dont  think this is enough  to say M3W met its obligations to ensure a clear 
question was asked.  And on balance, I think its more likely than not that Ms T wasnt asked 
whether her sum insured  was enough to cover the full cost of rebuilding her property and 
outbuildings.
Ive considered what Ms T would have done had M3W asked if her buildings insurance  was 
sufficient to cover the cost of rebuilding her property. I havent seen anything to suggest she 
wouldnt have taken  steps to ensure she was sufficiently covered. I accept its not M3Ws 
responsibility to carry out a survey on the property  to determine an accurate sum-insured 
amount. But it has said it would carry out a visit if it would  benefit themselves or the client.   
And I havent seen  anything to suggest Ms T wouldnt have  taken action  including  possibly 
asking for a site visit - had M3W carried out its responsibilities correctly.
Based on the above I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case  for M3W  
to compensate Ms T £8,790.20. This is the difference between the value of the claim and the 
amount the insurer has already paid Ms T. It should  also add 8% interest from the date of 
the claim until the date of settlement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I direct M3W  Limited to:
pay Ms T £8,790.20;
pay interest  on whatever is left to pay at 8% simple per year, from the date of the
claim, until the date of settlementi
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019..
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
i If M3W Limited considers  that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms T how much its taken off. It should also give Ms T a certificate showing 
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4150191