K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Starling Bank Limited  wont refund an unsuccessful cash machine 
withdrawal. He says the machine didnt dispense the cash.
background
Mr A has explained that in December 2018  he went to a cash  machine to withdraw £130. 
The cash  machine was one hed used  previously,  at a convenience store near his home. Mr 
A says that the machine displayed an error message but did not dispense  any cash. 
Nevertheless, Mr As bank statement showed  that the money  had been  debited from his 
account with Starling Bank. When he raised the matter with the bank, it investigated what 
had happened  with the cash machine operator. In the meantime, it credited his account with 
the disputed amount. 
The cash  machine operator said however that there had been  no issues  with the machine 
and that its own records showed that the cash had been correctly dispensed. Starling Bank 
re-debited Mr As account with £130 and he complained, first to the bank and then to this 
service.
One of our investigators  considered Mr As complaint but concluded that the evidence  
indicated that there  were  no issues with the cash machine at the time. She was persuaded 
that the cash machine had, after all, correctly  dispensed the cash and that Starling Bank  was 
entitled to debit Mr As account. 
Mr A didnt accept the investigators findings and asked  that they be reviewed  by an 
ombudsman.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same view as the investigator  did, and for similar reasons. 
As Ive indicated, the cash machine  was located at a convenience store  and wasnt operated  
by Starling Bank. I have  therefore had to rely to a large extent on the evidence  that the bank 
obtained from the cash machine operator.  But, for clarification, the complaint Im considering  
isnt about the cash  machine operator  its that Starling Bank should not have debited Mr 
As account. 
The evidence from the cash machine  operator  indicates that the cash  was correctly  
dispensed. It shows that Mr A correctly  entered his PIN and that £130 (six £20 notes and 
one £10 note) was dispensed within half a minute. Theres no indication that there was any 
problem with the machine. 
The cash  machine operators evidence included information about the withdrawals  made 
before and after Mr As withdrawal. There was one withdrawal about 30 minutes  before Mr A 
used the machine and another just over 10 minutes afterwards; that indicates that there  was 
no queue. Theres  no indication of any problem with those withdrawals either.  
I would generally  expect a cash machine to identify  automatically if cash hasnt been 
dispensed properly   for example, if there are problems counting  it or if the customer  doesnt 
Ref: DRN46459862collect it. That didnt happen  here,  however, and Mr As entire transaction   from the 
insertion of his card to the presentation of the cash  took little more  than half a minute. 
For these reasons I think it more likely than not that the cash  was correctly dispensed and I 
dont believe  it would  be fair to require Starling  Bank  to re-credit Mr As account. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Starling Bank Limited to do any more to resolve Mr 
As complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr 
A to accept  or reject  my decision before 27 February 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4645986