K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that NRAM Limited started legal  action to seek  a possession 
order for their property when they were trying  to discuss a payment  plan.
background
Mr and Mrs P have  held this mortgage  with NRAM since  2004.
Mrs P was made  redundant in 2017,  and set up a self-employed business. Unfortunately  this 
led to some financial difficulties. Whilst they maintained  the mortgage for some time, by 2018 
matters had got on top of them and the mortgage was in arrears.
NRAM says it tried to contact Mr and Mrs P many times without response, and in July 2018 it 
instructed a field agent to visit the property.  The field agent  was unable to make contact with 
Mr and Mrs P.
In August  2018  NRAM wrote to Mr and Mrs P to say the arrears  needed to be paid in full 
within 15 days.
On 24 August 2018 Mr and Mrs P wrote to NRAM to explain why their finances  were tight (I 
wont go into the details  here to protect their privacy) and asked if they could pay £500  a 
month (against  the contractual monthly  payment of about £1,000 a month) for a 12-month  
period. They  said a client owed Mrs P a substantial sum of money but they werent relying 
on receiving that, and that they hoped matters  would be a temporary problem and within the 
year theyd actually be ahead on their mortgage.
NRAM responded to that letter on 10 September 2018 saying it was unable to accept the 
offer without details of Mr and Mrs Ps income  and expenditure. NRAM sent an income and 
expenditure form to Mr and Mrs P on 14 September 2018 saying its Financial Hardship 
Team could look at possible options  for them.
On 25 September  2018 NRAM instructed its solicitors to start legal  action.
NRAM received Mr and Mrs Ps income and expenditure form back on 4 October, and wrote  
to them  on 9 October to say whilst  the information  evidenced a lack of affordability towards 
the mortgage payments, as a court date had already been set it was unable  to consider any 
concessions until after the hearing.
Unhappy with this Mr and Mrs P complained to NRAM,  they also made  extra payments to 
the mortgage in October  which bought it nearly up-to-date and were  enough for the legal 
action to be adjourned before the hearing. NRAM rejected their complaint saying it had tried 
to contact Mr and Mrs P without success, and said that if Mr and Mrs P had phoned it, 
matters could have  been resolved over the phone. It also said the field agent  report said hed 
been told by Mr and Mrs Ps neighbour that Mr and Mrs P werent living in the property.
Our investigator said he understood NRAMs concern about  the lack of contact, however he 
felt once Mr and Mrs P did make contact matters  were escalated too quickly. He said NRAM 
should remove the legal costs incurred  on the mortgage due to the instruction on 
25 September through to the adjournment  of the court hearing as well as any interest  
charged on those amounts. He also said NRAM should pay Mr and Mrs P £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience the action  caused.
Ref: DRN46491032my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, the starting point here is that repossession should be a last 
resort. A lender  must consider all other alternatives first. I also acknowledge there was a lack 
of contact in the early  days and perhaps  Mr and Mrs P could have  been  more proactive in 
dealing with this. That said, NRAM will be aware its not at all unusual  for people  facing 
financial difficulties not immediately to wish to face up to that. Letters  can go unopened and 
phone calls avoided, thats  a fairly  natural human reaction. What  I have to consider here is 
whether it went beyond that, and I dont think it did.
Mr and Mrs P wrote  to NRAM on 24 August 2018  and within that letter  they were frank about 
their situation and asked for help. NRAM, quite rightly, said it could consider offering that 
help but it would need details of their income and expenditure first. Thats  what  I would 
expect. But what I wouldnt expect is for a lender to then instruct its solicitor  to commence 
litigation just 11 days after first sending  the income  and expenditure form to its customers. 
Thats far too soon.
Whilst NRAM was unaware  of this at the time, there  was a very valid reason why there was 
a delay in Mr and Mrs P returning the form; that is they were  involved in a very serious  
incident at that time. Again I wont go into details here to protect their privacy but Im satisfied 
that incident more than explains  the delay in returning the form for a couple of weeks.  
This wasnt a case where a mortgage had been in arrears for many years, and the level of 
arrears was that significant  in terms of how many months payments it equated to. This was 
a relatively recent issue that Mr and Mrs P were  now in contact  with NRAM about, theyd 
asked for temporary  financial assistance with, and the arrears were  only equivalent to 
around three  monthly repayments.
Once Mr and Mrs P were aware that NRAM wasnt willing to offer them  a temporary  
concession they borrowed money to make  extra payments to mostly clear the arrears on the 
account. Unfortunately by then NRAM had already pushed ahead  with litigation which 
subsequently had to be cancelled when  the arrears were mostly cleared. It then added the 
costs for that to Mr and Mrs Ps account. 
Had NRAM not rushed  ahead  with instructing its solicitor  so soon after sending  the income 
and expenditure  form to Mr and Mrs P it seems likely the parties  could have reached the 
same position but without  those legal fees being incurred. Its for that reason Im satisfied the 
legal fees (plus any interest incurred on them) that were added to Mr and Mrs Ps account 
due to the September/October 2018  action should  be removed. 
I understand Mr and Mrs P queried  the level of compensation put forward  by our investigator 
compared to the size of NRAM. Were  not the regulator and any award of compensation  is 
not intended to be a fine or punishment to the business. We dont make  punitive awards. 
What we look at is the seriousness of the mistake made and the impact  that mistake  had, we 
also take account of awards weve made  in other  similar cases.  Having done  all this Im 
satisfied that £300  compensation is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN46491033On a side note,  whilst it doesnt affect  the outcome of this complaint, I wanted to pick up on 
the point NRAM  made  about being told Mr and Mrs P didnt live in the property. Ive read 
through the field agents report that has been provided and I cant  see any reference to 
Mr and Mrs P not living there,  instead  I can only see it says
Contact made with neighbours?: Yes
Neighbours confirmed residence
So based  on this report, unless theres something  missing from the copy  NRAM has 
provided to us, it seems  the neighbours told the field agent that Mr and Mrs P were living in 
the property. As I said, it doesnt alter the outcome of this complaint, but it might  be 
something NRAM needs to review  so it can update its records if this is a mistake.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and order  NRAM Limited to remove the legal costs incurred on the 
mortgage due to the September/October 2018  legal action (plus  any interest incurred on 
those costs)  and pay Mr and Mrs P £300 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4649103