K820x#14complaint
Miss W has complained that Lookers Motor  Group  Limited mis-sold a guaranteed asset 
protection (GAP) policy.
In bringing this complaint Miss W has been  helped  by her partner, Mr P. But for ease I will 
refer to his comments as being  those  of Miss W.
background
Lookers supplied a new car to Miss W on a lease agreement. At the same time it sold her 
two insurance policies for the car: a GAP policy and a wheel protection policy. At the end of 
the finance term the finance company asked Miss W to make a balancing payment of 
roughly £440 for the two insurance policies. Miss W said that Lookers  didn't tell her about  
the balancing payment when she bought the policies.
Miss W brought her complaint to us. The investigator didn't think Lookers had done  anything 
wrong. Miss W didn't  agree so the complaint's  been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
As Ive said above  its apparent that Lookers sold Miss W two policies, although shes  only 
complained about the sale of the GAP policy to us. So Ill only refer to that here, even though 
the figures for both policies are combined in the paperwork.
Miss Ws said that Lookers didn't tell her - during the sale of the GAP policy - that she would 
have to make a significant balancing payment at the end of her finance agreement. She says 
she continually asked whether there would be anything to pay at the end of the agreement. 
But Lookers  told her shed  only have to make payment for any excess  mileage and wear  and 
tear.
I wasn't there when  Lookers sold the policy. So I can't  say exactly what was discussed  or if 
Lookers did appropriately answer Miss Ws questions about whether there would a balancing 
payment concerning the GAP policy. But Ive seen the documents  that Miss W signed  when 
she bought it. And that clearly shows that she agreed that the policys costs, including  the 
number and frequency of payments, had been explained to her. And the document  goes on 
to clearly set out the amounts she needed to pay, including  the final balancing  payment.
Ive seen that Lookers sent a copy of that document  to Miss W when it responded to her 
complaint. And I note that Miss W doesn't deny  that she signed  it, although  she says that 
Lookers didn't give her a copy of it at the time of the sale. But even if Lookers didn't provide 
a copy at the time, Miss W has signed  to say that she understood the terms of the credit and 
the number and frequency of the payments. That included information about  the balancing 
payment. And Miss W took the finance out on that basis.
I understand that, over three years later, Miss W can't recall the specific details  of what she 
signed at the time. But, I don't think that means it wasn't discussed or explained. So Im not 
persuaded that Lookers  mis-sold the GAP policy. 
Ref: DRN48815802my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 March  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4881580