K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs P bought the policy when she took out a loan for a car in 1999. The loan included an 
amount to pay for the policy.  The policy protected her repayments on the loan for up to twelve 
months if she became  unemployed,  and for up to the remaining term of the loan if she couldnt  
work because of an accident  or sickness. The policy also provided her with life cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint, Ill explain why. 
The policy was sold over 19 years  ago, so it isnt surprising that neither Mrs P nor Lloyds still 
have copies of the paperwork completed at the time.  I also have to take into account  that 
memories can fade over time. In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete  or 
contradictory, I have  to make my decision on the balance of probabilities   that is, to decide 
what is most likely  to have happened. 
Lloyds has provided  a sample  loan agreement which it says was in use at the time the policy 
was sold. I think its more  likely than not Mrs P was asked  to sign an agreement like this to 
get her loan funds.  On the loan agreement  there  is a section called Optional Loan 
Repayment Protection  and it has Yes and No boxes in that section to indicate  if cover was 
required. Mrs P ought to have understood that this was something she could say No to. 
From what  we understand about the way these policies were sold, this part of the loan 
documentation wouldve been  completed after a conversation  between  the representative  
and Mr P. So, on balance,  I think its more likely than not Mrs P would have been  aware  she 
had a choice about buying  the PPI policy and that she chose to take it out. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs P, so it needed to check  that it was right for her. I think 
it was. Mrs P was eligible for the policy and the main exclusions around employment  and 
pre-existing medical conditions didnt apply to her. Mrs P told us she thought she would have 
found it hard to claim because she was self-employed. The policy  document  suggests that 
Mrs Ps employment status would  not have prevented her from successfully claiming. So I 
dont think thered have been anything to stop her claiming the full policy benefit if shed 
needed to.
And I think that Mrs P had a need for the policy. I say that because Mrs P said that she had 
no sick pay as she was self-employed.  And Mrs P said that she had no other means she 
could have relied on if she was off work  sick for a long time, or if she lost his job, such that 
she may have had to rely on her husband  to make her loan repayments. The policy couldve 
paid out for up to 12 months if Mrs P became  unemployed, and for the remaining term of the 
Ref: DRN42249112loan if Mrs P was too ill to work, and this may have  reduced her reliance on any help her 
husband may have  been  able to provide her with at the time. So, I think  the policy could 
have been useful to Mrs P. 
Mrs P wouldve  got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if she cancelled the policy  
early. I dont  know if Lloyds thought about  this when it recommended  the policy, or if it 
explained the situation clearly to Mrs P. But I havent seen anything to suggest at the time of 
the sale she thought shed repay the loan early. So I dont think  this meant the policy  wasnt 
right for her  or that better  information about  this wouldve stopped  Mrs P buying it. 
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. Lloyds didnt include 
information on the amount of interest  which would be payable on the PPI policy  over the loan 
term. But even if it had, I think Mrs P would still have bought it. Given  how long the policy  
could have paid out for, if Mrs P made a successful claim  she couldve got back  quite a bit 
more than she paid for it. 
I cant  be certain that Lloyds provided full information to Mrs P. But for the same  reason that 
I think the policy was suitable, I dont  think better  information would have led Mrs P to avoid 
the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint about  Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4224911