K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  about the way that The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Platform  has 
dealt with her account whilst she has been  in financial  difficulties. Miss S wants Platform to 
agree a payment arrangement with her.
background
Miss S took out an interest  only mortgage  with Platform  in 2005 for a 25 year term. Miss Ss 
account fell into arrears as she was caring  for her parents which affected her ability to work 
and earn money.  In May 2019 Miss S understood that she had come  to an arrangement to 
make her monthly  payment of £745 and £45.22 towards the arrears then standing  at £4,550. 
Miss S made these payments in April and May but then got a letter from Platform  saying that 
it hadnt agreed to this arrangement. Platform took legal action leading to a hearing which 
was to be held on 18 June 2019  and has been put on hold pending this complaint. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld  as she didnt believe 
that Miss S had come  to an arrangement with Platform  nor was she of the view that Platform  
should agree  that payment arrangement  plan as she didnt  believe it was affordable.  But our 
investigator did ask Platform to agree a six month breathing space subject to the contractual 
monthly payments  being made.  Miss S disagreed  and asked for a review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S believes that she agreed an arrangement in May 2019 to repay the arrears  on her 
mortgage which she wants Platform to accept. There is a substantial  amount of evidence  on this 
file which  Ive considered carefully  to decide whether Platform  has treated Miss S fairly.  From  
2017 Miss S agreed a number  of arrangements, some involving payment only of the monthly  
instalment and some involving payment of the monthly instalment together  with a contribution 
towards the arrears.  But on five occasions  during this period the arrangements failed. 
Like our investigator I listened  to the phone call Miss S had with a Platform  adviser on 3 May 
2019 and like the investigator  I came to the view that although  a possible arrangement  was 
proposed as described above, that proposal  was subject to review and on review Platform  
didnt agree to it. Against the background of the previous broken arrangements, I understand 
why Platform would  be reluctant to accept  Miss Ss offer of a further arrangement
The reason  Miss S was hopeful of her prospects at that time was that her personal 
circumstances had changed and her time would be freed up so she hoped  her income would 
increase. To be fair to Miss S Ive looked at the pattern of the payments she made  since May 
2019 to see if Platform was mistaken in refusing the arrangement. In July 2019,  the arrears  
were £4,507.75 and the contractual monthly  payments  £745.51. Since then the full 
contractual monthly payment  was only paid in August,  September and October  although I 
dont have a full monthly statement for the month  of February. As a result  the arrears 
increased to £6,559.79. I would have thought that the evidence suggests that the 
arrangement Miss S proposed in May 2019 was unworkable and it was reasonable for 
Platform to refuse it.
Ref: DRN49639392Miss S makes  the point that there  is sufficient equity in the property for Platforms  security.  
But Platform  is a commercial business and entitled to expect  the payments it agreed  with 
Miss S to be paid. It should of course be positive and sympathetic to Miss S in her financial  
difficulties. But the number of previous arrangements suggest that it has been so to date.  
Furthermore, if Platform simply continued to agree with arrangements that were unworkable, 
it could be said to be assisting in making Miss Ss financial situation worse as the increased 
arrears are clearly eating into Miss Ss equity  in her property. Her equity has fallen by about 
£2,000 since Miss S started this complaint  and any arrangement made that is unaffordable 
will worsen her situation.
My view is that Platform has acted  fairly  and reasonably to date. I note that Miss S has 
spoken to a number of advisers and has forwarded  to me further proposals that she wants 
Platform to consider. Its not for me to consider those proposals  but Platform. Miss S tells me 
that Platform has requested an income/expenditure  form from her. Our investigator  in her 
view of the 16 October thought that it would  be useful to ask Platform to give Miss S a six 
month breathing  space  provided she paid the contractual monthly payments. Unfortunately  
those payments werent made but it seems that Miss S has met and got advice from a 
number of sources and is looking to engage with Platform. I would urge both parties to see if 
they can agree an affordable arrangement and would ask Platform  to extend the breathing 
space to 16 April 2020 as suggested  by our investigator.  But for the reasons set out above I 
cant fairly uphold  this complaint.       
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4963939