K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that they were overcharged and badly advised by an appointed 
representative of Legal & General Partnership Services  Limited (L&G).
background
In 2008 Mr and Mrs E re-mortgaged their property on the advice of an appointed 
representative of L&G. In 2018  they complained to L&G on two counts:
1.They paid a valuation  fee of £236,  but understood  the valuer only received about  £130. 
L&G had received a secret commission.
2.L&G recommended  and sold to them separate life and protection  policies although  a joint 
policy already existed.
L&G acknowledged they had been charged £236.18 for the valuation and the payment made  
to the lender was £188.00.  It said this was an administrative error and not a secret 
commission payment.
But this did mean  Mr and Mrs E had overpaid  by £48.18 which  L&G offered to refund with 
interest at their mortgage rate until 14 June 2018,  a month later. Its offer was £62.34 made  
up as follows:
L&G said it couldnt see that any separate policies went into force.
Mr and Mrs E werent happy  with this and brought their complaint to this service, but our 
adjudicator didnt recommend it be upheld. He said the offer in respect of the valuation fee 
was fair. Hed seen no evidence that the policies ever started.
Mr and Mrs E didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the case. They  said the 
adjudicator hadnt dealt  properly with the secret  commission  element  of the complaint. L&G 
was making a profit by charging  the customer according to an internal valuation fee scale 
and the real cost to the surveying firm used.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont understand  what is meant by charging  the customer according to an internal valuation  
fee scale and the real cost to the surveying  firm used. No cost was charged  to the surveyor 
by either  L&G or the lender. Indeed  the reverse was the case.
And in any event L&G has offered to refund with interest the difference  between  what  it 
charged Mr and Mrs E and what it paid to the lender. I consider this to be fair and 
reasonable.Difference in payments = £48.18
Mortgage interest = £14.16
Total = £62.34
Ref: DRN44584712Mr and Mrs E have  provided no evidence that the policies ever started.
my final decision
L&G has already  made  an offer to pay £62.34 to settle the complaint and I think  this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Legal & General Partnership Services Limited should pay 
Mr and Mrs E £62.34.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 October  2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4458471