K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Collingwood Insurance Company Ltd (Collingwood) have not refunded  
him the additional  insurance premium he paid for an open  claim. Collingwood  have been  told 
that the open claim which the additional premium  had been charged for, has been settled as 
non-fault. 
background
Mr G took out a car insurance policy with Collingwood  in December 2016. At the time, 
Mr Gs previous insurer was still dealing with a claim from 2016. Because  this claim hadnt 
been settled, Collingwood  charged an additional  premium. Mr G was given  the option to 
cancel his insurance policy, or pay the additional  premium. Mr G chose to pay the additional 
premium. 
Collingwood say that they received an enquiry from Mr Gs broker  in December 2016 saying 
that once the claim from 2016 had settled, they would refer this to Collingwood to re-review. 
Collingwood say that Mr Gs broker was told at that time that theyd only review the 
additional premium  if the outstanding claim was settled before expiry  of Mr Gs insurance 
policy with them. 
Mr Gs insurance  policy  ended with Collingwood  in December 2017. In July 2018 Mr Gs 
outstanding claim  from 2016  was settled  as a non-fault claim. Mr Gs broker  contacted 
Collingwood asking for a review, and possible refund,  of the additional premium.  
Collingwood refused to do this. They said the email to Mr Gs broker set out when they 
would re-review Mr Gs additional premium, and the timeframe for this had passed.   
Mr G was unhappy with this response. He brought his complaint to this service. The 
investigator found that Mr G had no control over when his open claim would be settled. The 
investigator thought  it was unfair  that as this had happened seven  months after Mr Gs policy 
had ended, Collingwood had refused to re-review the additional  premium.  
The investigator recommended  that Collingwood recalculate Mr Gs premium based on the 
accurate settlement of the 2016  claim, and Mr G having four years no claims discount 
(NCD). The investigator also recommended Collingwood pay interest  of 8% a year on any 
refund owed to Mr G from 9 August 2018  to the date they issue  settlement.
Collingwood disagreed with the investigators  findings saying that leaving the question  of a 
potential refund open for an indefinite period would make it impossible to manage  from a 
policy rating, risk and solvency perspective. As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was 
passed to me for decision.  
I issued my provisional decision on 29 August 2019  saying that Collingwood had acted fairly  
and I didnt intend to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Collingwood accepted my provisional decision 
and provided no further comments. Although Mr G didnt agree with my findings,  he didnt 
provide any further  comments. Because of this theres been no change to my provisional  
decision, and it remains my decision that I dont uphold  Mr Gs complaint. The findings below 
are repeated  from my provisional decision for completeness.
Ref: DRN49390432my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
The investigator found that Collingwoods refusal to review the additional  premium  after the 
policy had ended was unfair. Ive taken  a different view. I can understand this is likely to 
come as a disappointment  to Mr G but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why 
Ive reached this decision.   
There can be a number  of variables that affect  an insurers  decision to provide insurance. 
In this case, Collingwood felt that the open claim was a risk factor  for them, and in order to 
provide insurance,  Mr G would have  to pay an additional premium. Mr G chose to do this. 
Ive seen no evidence  to say that Mr G was told this additional premium  would be refunded 
to him if the 2016 claim was settled as non-fault outside of his policy  term. 
Mr G says that as the outstanding claim from 2016 was settled  in his favour in 2018,  it would  
be fair for Collingwood to refund the additional  premium he had to pay. I dont think it would 
be fair to ask Collingwood to do this. Collingwood  have explained that they wouldve 
reviewed the additional  premium if the claim had settled whilst Mr Gs policy was active. I 
think thats reasonable. But I dont  think it would be reasonable to ask Collingwood to review  
their position  at any indefinite time in the future, after a policy comes to an end.  
The investigator found that seven  months  is not a long time after the policy  ended, and so it 
feels fair that Collingwood should  reconsider the additional premium. The investigator didnt 
think Mr G should be negatively impacted because of the timing of his open claim being 
settled. I accept that Mr G had no control over when his open claim would be settled. But I 
also think this is part of the risk both parties  take when agreeing a contract for insurance. 
Collingwood assessed  the risk for insuring Mr G, and this was explained  to him at the start of 
the policy term in December 2016. Mr G accepted the terms offered, including the cost of 
Collingwood taking on the additional  risk of the claim being  open. On balance  I dont think  
Mr Gs decision  to take out the policy  was reliant on the additional premium being  refunded  
at some future point.  I dont think it would be fair to ask Collingwood to re-review the claim as 
circumstances can sometimes change. It doesnt feel fair to ask Collingwood to re-assess  
the level of risk they wouldve  placed  on Mr Gs policy knowing the information they do now  
some months after the contract has ended.  
When looking at whats fair and reasonable, I think Collingwood have  acted fairly  in their 
decision not to re-review Mr Gs claim in 2018.  Having  considered  what Mr G was told about 
the additional premium, and the timescale in which the premium refund was questioned, I 
think Collingwoods decision is overall reasonable. So I wont be asking them to pay 
compensation in resolution of Mr Gs complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above my final decision  is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint 
about Collingwood  Insurance  Company Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Ref: DRN49390433Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4939043