K821x#15Complaint
Mr K has complained that he was mis-sold a fixed sum loan by Green Hut Energy Ltd. The 
loan was provided under the Green Deal scheme  to finance the installation of a boiler  in his 
home. 
Background
Mr K has said that he is disabled and is on a fixed income.  In 2017, he was considering 
replacing his existing boiler and carried out some  research  into whether he could obtain this 
free of charge due to his circumstances. Ultimately, he entered an agreement  with Green 
Hut for them  to provide and install a replacement gas boiler in his property. The boiler was to 
be financed via the Green Deal scheme.
The Green Deal scheme was originally  a government  backed initiative intended  to remove 
the upfront  cost to consumers of installing energy efficiency measures into their homes.  It did 
this by allowing  Green Deal Providers  to enter  finance agreements with consumers to pay 
for the measures, which were then repaid via the consumers  electricity bill. The finance 
agreement was part of what was known as the Green Deal Plan. 
Although government funding for the scheme stopped in 2015, Green Deal finance is still 
available through some private companies. And the overall mechanism behind  the scheme 
remains the same. 
A significant key principle  of the Green Deal scheme  is that the amount of finance that can 
be provided for the improvement measures is limited to the estimated energy bill savings 
that are likely to be achieved by these measures.  This limitation is partly constructed so as to 
apply to the estimated savings, versus repayments,  made in the first year of the agreement.  
This principle is known as the golden  rule and it forms part of the legislative provisions 
governing Green Deal Plans. Regulation  30 of the Green Deal Framework (Disclosure, 
Acknowledgement, Redress etc.) Regulations 2012  (the Framework) states:
The first year instalments must  not exceed the estimated first year savings
As a Green Deal Plan remains with the property, and so is not dependent on the usage of 
energy by the specific occupant at the time of the assessment, the total amount of finance 
that can be provided is based  on the savings that can typically  be achieved by a property of 
the type a consumer has. As such,  the relevant figure is obtained via an appropriately  
completed Energy Performance  Certificate (EPC).
An EPC is an assessment of the energy use of a typical household  of the type a customer  
has, taking into account the features of the building  and existing energy measures.
It is the responsibility of the Green  Deal Provider to ensure  that the golden rule is satisfied 
and that the consumer has received a proper explanation of the savings and other elements 
of the Plan. The Green Deal Provider  in this case is Green Hut.
Ref: DRN45596532In April 2017, the EPC produced on Mr Ks property  indicated that it might benefit from a 
number of measures.  These included various insulations, solar  panels, and the replacement 
of the existing boiler. The estimated savings  set out on the EPC are broken down, but are 
based on the cumulative impact of all of the recommended measures being installed.  The 
figure given  for the estimated saving from a replacement boiler was £109  per year.
Neither the April 2017 EPC, nor a further  EPC carried  out after the new boiler was installed, 
noted there being any secondary source  of heating beyond the boiler  and radiator system. 
However, Mr K has said that, at the time of the initial assessment, he had recently  had a log 
burner fitted in his property and that he had specifically pointed  this out to the assessor. Mr K 
has provided some supporting evidence of this, including  an invoice, a photo and a 
certificate. I will return to this evidence in due course.
Under the Green Deal Plan entered in June 2017,  the total debt, including interest and 
charges, that Mr K owed to Green Hut for the installation of the boiler was over £4,000.  The 
repayment Mr K had to make for the first year of the agreement was £335.80.  And the 
estimated first year savings were £338.39. So, the first year savings were £2.59 greater than 
the annual repayments.
Based on these figures, the golden rule was satisfied and the replacement boiler would 
come at no additional cost to Mr K. 
Mr K began to raise concerns with Green Hut soon after his boiler was replaced.  Mr K has 
made various allegations in relation to the process  he went  through  when entering the 
agreement in June  2017. He has said that he was not made  fully aware  of the nature of the 
agreement, including that he was taking out a loan. He has said that when he gave his 
consent by signing  the electronic device Green Huts sales  representative presented  him, 
the device was blank and he thought he was merely consenting to the installation. 
One of Mr Ks other  concerns is that the failure to take into account  the presence  of the log 
burner meant the estimated savings were  overestimated. Mr K says that had he been aware 
installing the new boiler would come at a cost to him, he would never have agreed to it.
Green Hut have refuted these allegations.  They maintain that Mr K was fully aware  of the 
nature of the agreement,  and that he accessed the documents on numerous occasions. 
They have also said that the EPC assessors are independent and neither these, nor Green 
Huts own sales agents, identified the presence of a log burner. Green Hut has said that 
either the log burner  was not there or Mr K deliberately hid it. 
Mr K referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator wasnt satisfied Mr K was aware 
he was entering a loan, and given  his circumstances she didnt think he would have done so 
had he been made appropriately aware. The investigator didnt think Green Hut has 
explained the details of the credit agreement clearly  and fairly.  She also considered Mr Ks 
log burner should  have been taken  into account  when the Green Deal Plan was created, and 
that if it had been  the golden rule was unlikely to have been met. Overall,  she thought Mr Ks 
complaint should  be upheld.  
The investigator didnt  think it was possible to remove  the new boiler  and replace it with the 
previous one. But that Green Hut should  unwind the credit agreement,  refund any payments 
made adding  8% simple  interest, and pay Mr K £150 in compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused  to him. 
Ref: DRN45596533Mr K agreed, but Green Hut did not. Green Hut said that various  inspections  had not noted  
there being a log burner  present and that, even if there was, the impact of this would have 
been minimal. They also said that Mr K had accessed the electronic  document  on numerous  
occasions and was made fully aware  of its nature.  
Green Hut has since provided  a draft EPC produced to show what  impact the presence 
secondary heating  consisting of room heaters, wood logs would have on the assessment. 
The estimated annual savings from a replacement  boiler shown on this report is £94. 
As Green Hut did not agree with the investigators recommendation, this case  has been  
passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The golden rule means that any finance  provided under the Green  Deal scheme  is limited  by 
the amount of savings that the relevant measure being installed is likely to achieve.  In some 
cases, customers may desire to install measures that will cost more than the savings likely to 
be achieved. In such cases, the Green Deal finance can only pay for a proportion of the 
measure and the customer will need to make up the shortfall. 
The loan agreement  entered  between  Mr K and Green Hut provided  finance for the full cost 
of the boiler and its installation though.  This means  that the amount provided under the loan 
was limited by the savings  that were estimated to be achieved by the installation  of the 
replacement boiler.  
Mr K has said that he had a log burner in his property at the time of the assessment and 
prior to entering the Green Deal plan. If so, the impact of this is something Green Hut should 
have taken into account when considering the savings a new boiler  might  lead to. It is 
therefore necessary  for me to consider whether it is more  likely than not that the log burner 
was present at the time of the installation,  and whether Mr K was likely  to have hidden this 
from the assessors. 
Green Hut have disputed  the presence  of the log burner. But I am persuaded by the 
evidence Mr K has provided. Significant for me is the completion  certificate.  This has been 
signed by Mr Ks local authority building control department (LABC) on 22 March 2017. It 
states it is:
to certify that the work in connection with the installation of a multi  fuel stove and 
chimney liner has been inspected and found  to be in compliance with the relevant 
requirements of Schedule  1 of the Building Regulations.
Green Hut have contended that this: 
is NOT an installation certificate, it is merely  an inspection that took place to find out 
how viable  it is to have  a log burner installed.
They have said that the relevant certificate would need to have been supplied from 
HETAS. 
Ref: DRN45596534HETAS are a body that do certify  many  installations of log burners. The certification  they 
carry out demonstrates that the installation complies with the relevant Building Regulations. 
However, the responsibility  for ensuring such compliance ultimately falls to the relevant 
LABC. If a consumer requests inspection and certification,  the LABC will ensure  the 
requirements of the Building Regulations  2010  have been complied with. So I dont  agree  
that the certification was something that could only be provided by HETAS.
Part J of Schedule  1 to the Building Regulations 2010 relates to the installation of a log 
burner, and I am satisfied  the certificate  issued  to Mr K on 22 March  2017 was issued by his 
LABC following the installation of his log burner. This was prior to the Green  Deal being 
entered, so I consider the presence of the log burner should  have been taken into account 
when considering the potential savings that could  be made.
Green Hut has also suggested that Mr K may have concealed the log burner.  I am unsure 
why the log burner was not recorded by the inspectors, etc. Photos  of the interior  of Mr Ks 
property were taken. So it is apparent the inspectors visited  the property and considered the 
existing appliances,  etc. 
However, having considered the photo  supplied by Mr K of his log burner, it appears  to be 
positioned within the chimney breast of his property and is surrounded by a mantel,  etc. I 
think that any attempt  to hide this would  have been  obvious. And I am not persuaded by any 
argument that it is most likely Mr K would have considered the potential  scenario of 
concealing a newly installed log burner,  so as to inflate the potential savings of a new boiler, 
in the hope that he would have able to successfully complain about  the sale of this boiler  via 
what is a complex scheme.  
Taking everything into account,  I consider  Mr Ks log burner was most  likely present at the 
time the Green Deal Plan was entered and, as such,  should have been taken into account  
when Green  Hut calculated the estimated saving of having the boiler replaced.
Had this happened, I dont think Mr Ks Green  Deal Plan would  have met the golden  rule. Ill 
explain why.
Mr K has said that, because he uses the log burner in the evenings,  he only turns  on his 
central heating once each day, rather than twice. He considers this cuts his energy needs by 
half. I am not overly convinced that this is the case; his log burner is unlikely to fully heat his 
entire house and to my knowledge it is not used to heat his water, etc. Mr K would also need 
to pay for the wood  he burns. 
However, the presence of a log burner would  clearly lead to a reduction in the energy being 
used by the boiler, and therefore a reduction  in the saving achieved  by replacing the boiler. 
Green Hut itself has not disputed this, though it has said that the difference  would be 
minimal. 
The draft EPC Green Hut have provided  confirms the existence of a log burner would lead to 
a difference in the estimated saving; £94 per year rather than the £109 indicated on the 
April 2017 EPC, a difference  of £15. 
Ref: DRN45596535Due to differences  in how the calculations for the different  documents  are reached,  exactly  
the same  difference may not have been  carried through to the Green  Deal Plan. However,  
the difference between the annual cost of the Green  Deal Plan and the first year estimated 
saving used on that Plan, gave a minimal margin of error. A difference  of only £2.60 would 
mean that the annual cost was higher than the estimated first year saving. And I am satisfied 
that the presence of a log burner would  most  likely lead to a much greater difference than 
that. 
This means  that the failure to take into account the presence of a log burner meant the 
Green Deal Plan didnt  meet the golden rule. 
As result of this, I consider Green Hut did not accurately explain the cost of the Plan to Mr K. 
I also consider that, had Mr K been  made aware  that the replacement  of his boiler would 
come at a cost to him, he would not have agreed to enter this agreement.  Mr K raised this 
issue as soon as it became  apparent  the amount saved  would  not cover his costs, and this 
was clearly an issue for him given the fixed nature of his income.
I also consider that the impact of this on Mr K has caused him distress  and inconvenience 
that he otherwise  would not have experienced. 
Taking all of the circumstances into account,  I consider Mr Ks complaint  should be upheld.
Like the investigator though, I am conscious  that the redress she recommended  will leave 
Mr K with a new boiler that he will not need to pay for. But I also agree with the investigator 
that it is not feasible to put the parties  back in exactly  the position  they would have been in. 
The actual boiler removed from Mr Ks property is unlikely  to still be available. Which means 
to put Mr K back in the position he would  otherwise  have been in, Green Hut would have to 
purchase a replacement of the same standard and condition as the original, and then pay for 
this to be installed in Mr Ks property. I do not consider this to be practical. 
However, whilst  I note that these events  have caused Mr K trouble and upset, I feel that this 
will be offset by the benefit he receives  as a result  of having this new boiler. So I do not 
consider an additional award to reflect his distress  and inconvenience is appropriate. 
Ref: DRN45596536My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Green Hut Energy Ltd should:
1.Cancel the credit agreement and write off any outstanding  loan balance.  
2.Remove any record of Green  Deal finance  from Mr Ks credit  file. 
3.Refund any instalments paid with 8% simple interest from the date of payment  to the 
date of settlement.
If Mr K accepts  this decision,  Green Hut should  make full settlement promptly  and no later 
than 28 days after Mr Ks acceptance. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4559653