K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Canada Square  Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr D bought the policy in 2003 at the same  time as taking out an Egg credit card online. I 
issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 15 November 2018. Ive summarised my 
provisional findings below:
 Mr D had told us he was entitled  to employer sick pay worth twelve months of his 
salary, and that he had significant savings. So the adjudicator  didnt think Mr D 
wouldve decided that the policy was good  value  for him, if hed had better  
information about the cost.
 Mr D hadnt been able to provide any evidence of the sick pay hed said he was 
entitled to, or his savings. I didnt think  that was unreasonable, given the amount  of 
time that had passed since he took out the policy.
 But we had other evidence about Mr Ds finances. When I took account  of that evidence    
I thought it was unlikely that Mr D had the amount  of savings hed claimed when he 
took out the policy.
 I also said that sick pay worth  twelve months full salary  is rare. In the absence 
of any other  evidence,  I thought  it was unlikely that Mr D had the level of sick pay 
hed referred to.
 I accepted that Canada  Square probably  didnt fully explain the policys  costs and 
benefits when  Mr D bought it. But when  I took account of Mr Ds circumstances 
overall, I didnt think better information about cost wouldve changed his decision to 
buy the PPI.
 I thought Canada  Square made  Mr D aware  that the PPI was optional  and that he 
chose to take it. 
 Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check if  
it was suitable  for him.
 I thought it was possible  the information  Canada Square gave Mr D about the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it should have been. But it was unlikely  Mr D would have been 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. So I didnt think better 
information wouldve  stopped him buying  it.
Mr D didnt make any further representations  in response to my provisional decision,  and 
neither did Canada Square.
Ref: DRN43075402my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
In the absence of any further representations  from the parties, I see no reason to depart from 
the position set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4307540