K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited have unfairly not added any bonuses 
to his pension  policy since 2002,  despite  market rises increasing  the value of the underlying 
investments.
Mr J also complains that Aviva wasnt able to tell him what his final  bonus may be before 
he came  to take his benefits. 
background
Mr J took out a with profits pension plan with Colonial Mutual (now Aviva)  in 1984. For ease 
of reference, I call the business Aviva  in the rest of this decision.
Under the terms of the policy the plan would provide certain  benefits  dependant  on the value 
of the fund at Mr Js selected retirement age. Aviva  agreed to provide an income in 
retirement, based on the annuity rates that applied  at the time the plan was taken out, or if 
annuity rates  were  lower, at a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR). 
The value of the plan was affected by whether:
the contributions  were  maintained;
any annual (or reversionary) bonuses were added; and
a final (or terminal)  bonus was added.
When the plan was taken out the GAR was generally much lower than the annuity rates 
available on the open market. So, it wasnt expected that many policyholders would make 
use of the GAR set out in the plan.
Over the years, annuity rates available  on the open market  dropped  significantly, for reasons 
beyond Avivas control. As a result, more policyholders have  ended  up making use of the 
GARs in their plans.
Mr J complained to Aviva  about the lack of bonuses applied to his plan since  2001. He said 
hed been guaranteed an annuity  of £1,844  pa in 1984, when he took out his plan, and by 
2001, this had increased to around  £3,859 pa as a result  of the annual bonuses applied.  
However, after that, no annual bonuses were  applied.
Mr J complained to Aviva.  Dis-satisfied with Avivas explanation about why it had not paid 
regular bonuses since 2001, Mr J brought his complaint to our service.  
Ref: DRN46058302Our adjudicator looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. He concluded  that taking into 
account the Principles and Practices of Financial Management (PPFM), that Aviva had 
shared with Mr J, he couldnt see that Aviva had treated  Mr J unfairly. He thought Avivas 
actions were designed to be able to maintain the guarantees built into the plan.
Mr J didnt accept our adjudicators view.  He said, in summary, looking at the performance  of 
Avivas with profits fund from 2002  to 2018, on average the gross  investment return  was 
8.03% per year. He said the sub fund his policy was invested in held a mix of higher and 
lower risk assets, including 22.8% in UK shares  and 2.8% in property, both showing 
significant increase  over the last 17 years.
He said he had been paying £20.50 per month for the last 17 years  (£4812) in total not to 
see his pension go up. He said the fact that costs  have  increased and annuity rates  
decreased over this period should  not allow Aviva to ignore the basic conditions of his policy.
Whilst waiting for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, Mr J has taken his 
pension benefits  and said he did not get a final bonus.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr J, but for the same reasons as our adjudicator  explained, I cant 
fairly uphold  his complaint. My reasons are essentially as set out by our adjudicator in his 
letter of August 2019. Ill summarise these here.
Our adjudicator looked at the summary  of Mr Js retirement benefits, produced in April 2019.  
He said that presuming  Mr J took his benefits  as a single annual  payment with no tax-free  
cash; the rate used to produce the annual annuity payment would work out as 9% based on 
the size of his fund.  He said this was a lot higher than wouldve been available on the open 
market if Mr J was in good health.
Our adjudicator pointed  out that annual and final bonuses were not guaranteed and were  
paid at the discretion of the fund actuary.
He said the quotation Mr J was given at the outset showing the pension benefits  Mr J may 
receive at retirement,  were also assumed. The figures stated were based on annuity rates 
remaining at the same level as they were at the time of quotation. Instead, annuity rates had 
fallen significantly over the last 15-20 years.
Aviva had to ensure that the cost of the guarantees could be met from within the with profits  
fund. GARs had to be met first, before applying policy bonuses.  Our adjudicator  pointed  out 
that the wider  the gap between the GAR  and open market annuity  rates,  the harder it was 
likely to be for Aviva to pay bonuses.
Also, our adjudicator said that because Aviva had to protect  the integrity of the fund, the fund 
manger had to put in place a more cautious investment strategy, more  caution tended  to 
produce lower investment  returns over time, again reducing the scope for Aviva to pay 
regular bonuses. Because of this our adjudicator pointed out that it is not fair to compare the 
performance of the with profits fund with an index such as the FTSE 100 index.
Ref: DRN46058303Our adjudicator accepted that Aviva couldnt reasonably tell Mr J what  his final bonus may 
be, if any, in advance of him taking  his benefits.  This was because this is calculated at the 
time the benefits  are taken looking at the actual value of the investments held within the 
particular with-profits fund. 
Since the adjudicator issued his view,  Mr Js been  told he will not get a final bonus. There 
was no entitlement  to a final bonus. Again, this was discretionary. Based on what Ive heard 
about how Aviva intended  to assess  whether Mr J was due a final bonus, I cant fairly  say 
that it has treated  him unfairly. Again,  I think  it more  likely that this was a decision made 
taking into account  the PPFM. 
I can appreciate that Mr J believes that Aviva didnt comply with the basic conditions  of his 
policy. However, as I see it, it did. It paid him a pension based  on the GAR it agreed to at the 
outset. He was told that the annual and final bonuses were discretionary. Aviva  has 
explained why these were not paid. Its explanation doesnt appear  unfair  or unreasonable  in 
the circumstances. The amount of pension Mr J received was not determined simply on the 
performance of the fund.
So, I am sorry to disappoint Mr J, but I cant say that Aviva has acted unfairly  in deciding not 
to pay bonuses on his plan from 2002  onwards. And in those circumstances, I shall not be 
ordering Aviva  to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4605830