K822xcomplaint
Mrs H complains that Al Rayan Bank PLC incorrectly rejected a payment into her account.
background 
Mrs H says that when her salary was sent to her Al- Rayan account in April 2019, it was 
rejected by the bank and returned to her employer. As a result  her salary had to be paid to 
another account at another bank which meant she didnt receive it until 5 days later. And 
during this time a number of direct  debts were returned unpaid. And as a result of the 
returned payments,  she says her employers account was also frozen,  which caused further 
inconvenience. Mrs H would now like Al Rayan to compensate her for the trouble and upset 
caused by the delay  in crediting  the payment to her account.
Al Rayan  said the account details on the payments  from Mrs Hs employer were  incorrect. It 
had been able to identify  the correct account  in March -and credited the cheque to Mrs Hs 
account  this hadnt been possible in April so the cheque  was returned. While it didnt agree 
it was responsible for the error on the payments it accepted it should have told Mrs H about  
the problem in March. It offered Mrs H £50 compensation for this.
Our investigator viewed  the account  details  on the payments and agreed  with Al Rayan that 
they were incorrect. However  Al Rayan had known  there was a problem in March and it 
could have told Mrs H about it at that time. If it had, then the problem may have been 
resolved then. But it hadnt and because the details  were the still wrong,  the next months 
payment was rejected. This resulted  in two missed direct debits, for which Mrs H had been  
charged, as well as the delay in receiving  payment.  She didnt feel £50 was sufficient for the 
impact of this. Instead she recommended Al Rayan increase the compensation to £100 and 
removes any adverse information  in respect  of the missed payments from Mrs Hs credit file.
Mrs H disagreed and said, in summary:
As a result  of the problems with the payments in March and April, thered been a 
number of missed direct debits. And even after Al Rayan said various  payments had 
been made, the creditors said they hadnt  received payment:
Not having  her April salary for 5 days had been  very inconvenient. She hadnt been 
able to buy essentials or meet  her agreed  outgoings, including  paying her council tax, 
her gym and phone  subscriptions and her finance  payments. This had impacted on 
her financially and with her work because of having to try and sort matters  out.
Shed  still had no money as at the 13 May and the new bank account  shed opened  
elsewhere had been closed leaving her without any access to her funds.
She didnt consider  £100 to be sufficient  for what had happened  and asked for her 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I consider the remedy  
proposed by the adjudicator to be reasonable so I wont be asking  Al Rayan to do anything  
more as Ill now explain.
Ref: DRN47925302Ive seen the payments from Mrs Hs employer to her account  and its clear  that theres an 
error with one of the digits in the account  number. Its not clear how that mistake happened 
but the responsibility for ensuring that the details are correct lies with the sender  so I cant 
reasonably say Al Rayan is responsible for this. And because the details arent correct, 
unless Al Rayan can be satisfied its identified the correct account  for the payment, its 
entitled to return  it to the payee.
But in this case, as the banks acknowledged,  it realised there was a problem in March but 
having identified  Mrs Hs account, it simply credited the payment and didnt tell Mrs H what  
had happened. If it had, Mrs H could have  taken steps to make sure any future payment had 
the correct details and hopefully the problems in April could have been  avoided. Id agree 
with the adjudicator that the failure to let Mrs H know  was poor service and its only 
reasonable Al Rayan compensate her for this, including the fees she incurred as a result.
Ive seen Mrs H has said thereve been  a number of problems with missed  payments  from 7 
March through  to May.  She says her new accounts  been closed so she doesnt have access  
to her funds.
I can sympathise with the situation she finds herself  in. Its clearly a difficult  time. But Mrs H 
has confirmed the April payment was paid to her new account on 12 April.  Thats  a delay of 
5 days. In the circumstances its reasonable for Al Rayan to take responsibility  for what  
happened during that time but not for any problems after that or any issues  with the new 
account.
The March  payment was credited on time and while there was one unpaid direct debits on 1 
April this was then paid on the same day without  any fees being charged.  There  were no 
further unpaid  direct debits until 8 April,  when one was returned, followed by another on 11 
August. 
Its reasonable to think that if the April payment had gone in these direct debits wouldnt have 
been returned, However both payments were then processed shortly after so it not clear why 
the recipients  have  said they havent received  payment.  And as Mrs H had arranged to have 
her salary  paid into her new account, any problems with payments after 12 April are outside 
of Al Rayans responsibility.
Mrs H has set out very clearly the impact of not getting her salary on time in April. Ive given 
very careful  consideration to this but I can only take into account those events that arose 
directly from the delay in crediting her account. On the basis  that this was a short delay - and 
that the returned payments were  later paid - I consider £100  is reasonable  and in line with 
what Id have awarded for a complaint of this type. This takes into account the returned DD 
fees and the inconvenience to Mrs H. In addition Al Rayan  must remove  any adverse 
information relating  to the two unpaid  direct debits from Mrs Hs credit file.
Ref: DRN47925303my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Hs complaint in part and direct Al Rayan  Bank Plc 
a)to pay Mrs H £100 compensation  for its poor service and 
b)remove from Mrs Hs credit file any adverse data relating to the 2 unpaid direct  debts 
between 8 and 12 April 2019.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4792530