K821x#15complaint
Mr N has complained that Admiral Insurance Company  Limited undervalued his car when it 
settled a claim on his motor insurance  policy.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents.
background
Mr Ns car was stolen. Admiral settled his claim for its loss valuing the car at £9,700.  Mr N 
didn't think  that was enough and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators  looked 
into Mr Ns complaint. She felt that Admiral should  increase its valuation to £10,959. Admiral  
didn't think  that was fair. It said that a value of £10,198.50 was reasonable. And as it didn't 
agree with our investigator the case  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
Mr Ns policy  says that if his car was a total loss Admiral would pay its market  value.  And 
the policy defines market value as:
The cost of replacing  your car, with one of a similar  make, model, year,  mileage and 
condition based  on market prices at the time of the loss.
Our usual  approach to complaints about  valuations is to look at the relevant trade guides for 
valuing second-hand  cars. We often  find these reliable as theyre based on nationwide 
research of likely selling  prices. And I find them more persuasive than figures cars are 
advertised for, as those  are often inflated to allow for negotiation and don't reflect the actual  
sale price.  
In arriving at its valuation  Admiral followed our usual guidance for valuing cars. It looked  at 
valuations from two guides. Those are recognised industry trade guides used for valuing 
second hand cars. One of those  guides provided two separate  valuations, its own valuation 
and a second imported from another trade guide. And the three valuations the guides 
provided were: £7,530;  £9,707 and the imported figure of £5,565. We generally don't think 
that the imported  figure is reliable. But in any event  Admiral  based its initial  valuation  on the 
highest of those three figures.
Mr C said that his car was a classic, that its value was increasing and that the trade  guides  
wouldn't produce an accurate valuation.  So I've looked carefully to see if Admirals valuation 
was fair. I've seen that two other  trade guides also provided valuations for Mr Ns car and 
that those were £10,690 and £12,480.  I've also looked at a number of adverts  for similar  
cars, with relatively similar mileage advertised on the market  at the time. As is often the case  
with car adverts there was a broad  range of prices from around £17,900 at the highest end -
although those  cars generally had lower mileage  than Mr Ns car - down to around £9,600 at 
the lower end. So even allowing for negotiation,  I don't think  that the valuation of £7,530  
seems to reflect anything  like a fair market  value. Therefore, I've decided  to discount that 
valuation. But it seems  that the other  three valuations  (£9,707,  £10,690 and £12,480)  do 
seem to broadly  be in line with the market  at the time. And because the guides rarely agree 
on an exact valuation  we think that a fair way to find a cars market  value  is to use an 
Ref: DRN47025972average of the figures given by the trade guides that do provide fair market value prices. In 
this case an average of those three guides produce an average valuation of £10,959.
Admiral thinks  that, as the highest figure of £12,480 is considerably  higher than the other two 
guide prices then its fair to discount  it. But as I've said above,  from the data I've seen I think  
it is reflective of the market, even if its towards  the higher end of likely selling prices of a car 
similar in condition and mileage to Mr Ns. So I think its reasonable to include that sum when 
calculating the average figure to find a fair market value. It follows  that I think its fair and 
reasonable that Admiral should  increase its settlement  of Mr Ns claim based  on the cars 
market value of £10,959.  It should  add simple interest to the balance payable  to Mr N as 
described below.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to increase the settlement of Mr Ns claim for the total loss of his car based on a 
valuation of £10,959. It should add simple interest  to the balance payable  to Mr N at a rate of 
8% a year from the date it originally settled the claim to the date it makes payment.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr N how much its taken off. It should also give Mr N a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4702597