K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc appointed  Law of Property Act (LPA)  
Receivers to manage their buy-to-let (BTL) property after the mortgage term matured. They  
also say that they have  written 20-30 letters to Barclays, but have not received  any 
response. Mr and Mrs M have also said that theyve had no response  to their Data  Subject 
Access Request (DSAR).
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a BTL mortgage with Barclays which matured in December  2016.  It was 
an interest-only mortgage and so the full capital balance of £100,000 was due to be repaid 
at that time.
The mortgage wasnt repaid, however, and I understand  that in 2016  Mr and Mrs M 
approached Barclays  about their options.  They were considering adding their daughter  to the 
mortgage account and extending the mortgage term. 
In 2017 Mr and Mrs M complained to the Financial  Ombudsman Service about the delay by 
Barclays in contacting them in 2016.  Mr and Mrs M said they were ready to go ahead with 
this in November  2016, but were also about to go on holiday for two months.  They say 
Barclays failed to progress their application. In the meantime, Barclays had put any recovery  
action on hold, pending the outcome of our investigation.
In a letter dated 20 July 2017,  an investigator  explained to Mr and Mrs M that, because  the 
mortgage term had expired,  adding their daughter to the mortgage would mean a fresh  
application would need to be made for a new mortgage. 
The investigator said that this fresh application would  be subject to lending  criteria and an 
assessment of affordability. 
The investigator recommended  a payment of £250  for the delay by Barclays  in contacting  
Mr and Mrs M in 2016. 
On 8 August  2017 Mr M confirmed to us that the investigators findings were accepted. He 
explained that he was going  away in October  2017  until the end of November 2017, and 
needed to sort out his mortgage  application  before then.
But it appears Mr and Mrs M didnt pursue this any further at the time,  or make an 
appointment to see a mortgage adviser.
After the complaint was closed in August 2017 Barclays expected  Mr and Mrs M to contact  
the bank about a fresh application, but they didnt. Because  the full balance on the mortgage 
remained outstanding,  Barclays  appointed  LPA Receivers in early 2018. Since then, the 
property  occupied  by a tenant   has been managed  by the Receivers.  The amount 
outstanding under the mortgage has been reduced substantially,  if not already (by the date 
of this decision) possibly repaid. But there  are still costs  owed  to the Receivers.  
Mr and Mrs M complained to Barclays. They were concerned about charges applied  by the 
Receivers, and that there have been no rent increases. Mr and Mrs M were  also unhappy 
that their letters to Barclays had gone  unanswered.
Ref: DRN46570622In its final response dated 30 April 2019  Barclays said that it could not trace  the 20-30 letters 
which Mr and Mrs M said theyd sent.  Barclays could find only one letter since  2016 where 
Mr and Mrs M had asked  for information about  why the account had been passed to LPA 
Receivers. Barclays offered Mr and Mrs M £100  for any distress  or inconvenience theyd 
been caused if letters theyd sent hadnt reached Barclays.
Barclays clarified the reasons why it had appointed the Receivers, and explained the fees 
that the Receivers were charging. But Barclays didnt think it had acted incorrectly  when  it 
appointed the Receivers.
Mr and Mrs M complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at 
the complaint.  She obtained  some  further  information from Barclays  and from Mr and Mrs M 
about what had happened. 
After considering what had happened, the investigator didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She was satisfied Barclays was entitled  to appoint the LPA Receivers  and that the 
mortgage terms and conditions provided for this. 
The investigator clarified the position  regarding the rent. She explained that the Receivers 
had confirmed to Barclays that theyd spoken  to Mr and Mrs M and advised them that the 
rent could not be increased as the tenant  was in a payment  plan to clear rent arrears.
The investigator also noted that Barclays had responded  to a request for information on 
20 April 2018 and to the DSAR on 26 October 2018  but that the information  requested  was 
no longer available.
Overall, the investigator  thought the £100 offered by Barclays for being unable  to trace the 
20-30 letters Mr and Mrs M said theyd sent was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the investigators findings and made some further points, 
which I summarise  below:
from June 2016 onwards  they visited Barclays and provided all the necessary 
information and forms requested;
before  they went away on holiday on 28 November 2016  they were  assured by Barclays  
that everything was progressing  in relation to the mortgage;
Barclays appointed  Receivers without notifying  them;
they had substantial funds in an ISA at the time the mortgage account  reached the end 
of its term in 2016;
the compensation offered of £100  is a pittance
Ref: DRN46570623my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M have  reiterated all the issues raised in their previous complaint, which was 
considered by us in 2017. Those issues primarily relate to Mr and Mrs M saying they were 
assured before they went on holiday on 28 November 2016 that their mortgage application 
was being dealt with. The investigator  issued his findings on that complaint  on 20 July 2017. 
On 8 August  2017 Mr and Mrs M accepted the investigators findings on that complaint. 
In the circumstances, its not appropriate  for me to revisit those matters.  Both we and 
Barclays were  given  to understand by Mr and Mrs M that they accepted  the investigators 
findings in 2017. I dont  think  it would  be fair, four years after the events happened and three 
years after Mr and Mrs M accepted what wed said on their complaint, to go back and look at 
those matters again.  There has to be finality to our process and the investigation of the 
complaint made in 2017 was concluded.
So although  Ive noted everything Mr and Mrs M have said about what  happened  in 2016, 
this decision relates  only to matters that have arisen  since  8 August 2017, which  is that date 
when Mr and Mrs M accepted the outcome  of that complaint.
There is nothing in the available documentation to show that, after 8 August 2017,  Mr and 
Mrs M contacted Barclays to arrange an appointment to discuss  a new mortgage.  The 
investigator had made it clear in his findings that a fresh application would need to be made  
for a new mortgage.  And indeed, Mr M told us on the telephone that he would get this sorted 
out before  he went away in October  2017.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M say they wrote 20-30 letters to Barclays (although they have also 
said they wrote about 15 letters, so the exact  figure  is unclear). But I dont think Barclays did 
anything after 8 August 2017  to lead Mr and Mrs M to conclude  that a fresh  mortgage  
application was being considered. 
In fact, the situation was the complete opposite. Despite knowing that theyd need to make a 
fresh application, Mr and Mrs M didnt  take any steps at all to pursue this before  they went  
on holiday  in the autumn  of 2017.  Barclays had put matters on hold while we looked at the 
previous complaint, but was under no obligation  to continue to do so.
In the circumstances, and in the absence of any proposals to repay the £100,000 capital 
balance, Barclays instructed the LPA Receivers. I dont think  this was unreasonable in the 
circumstances. I know  Mr and Mrs M say Barclays didnt notify them,  but a letter  was sent to 
Mr and Mrs Ms home address.  
Mr and Mrs M also say they had funds available to pay off the mortgage in full in 2016. 
Theyve sent us details  of savings of around  £85,000, enough to pay off about  85% of the 
mortgage balance.  As Mr and Mrs M would   or should   have been aware in 2017 that they 
hadnt applied  for a new mortgage, they could have paid off a substantial  part of the debt at 
any time.
In all the circumstances, I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly in its decision to appoint 
Receivers. I note Barclays offered Mr and Mrs M £100 for not being  able to locate the 20-30  
letters Mr and Mrs M say they sent.  I think this is fair.
Ref: DRN46570624Ive also noted  Mr and Mrs Ms concerns about  the response they had to their DSAR.  As 
this is an expired mortgage account,  the records Barclays holds are, the bank says,  limited. 
But if Mr and Mrs M remain concerned that Barclays has failed to respond appropriately to 
their DSAR, they can take this up with the Information Commissioners Office,  which  is the 
organisation responsible for oversight of data issues, including DSARs.
The actions of the LPA Receivers dont fall within the remit of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service. If Mr and Mrs M have concerns about  the way in which the Receivers have dealt 
with the property, including the level of rent and the fees the Receivers  are charging, they 
will need  to take this up with the Receivers direct.
I know Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed  at my decision,  and I dont underestimate their 
strength of feeling.  But for the reasons given above,  I dont think  Barclays has done anything 
wrong.
my decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied that the £100 
compensation offered by Barclays Bank UK PLC for not locating Mr and Mrs Ms letters is 
fair and reasonable. I simply leave it to Mr and Mrs M to decide if they want  to accept it in full 
and final settlement of their complaint. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means  that we are unable to consider the complaint any further,  nor enter  into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 August 2020.
Jan OLeary
Ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN4657062