K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited incorrectly processed  a pension  
commencement lump sum (PCLS) payment from his pension policy in February 2018.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
May 2020. An extract from this is attached and forms  part of this final decision, so I will not 
repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  
Mr W has told us that he accepts  my provisional decision. His financial advisor who has 
been helping  him with the complaint has also provided some  further  background to the 
matters that form the subject of the complaint. Although  I have read these carefully, and am 
grateful for the additional commentary, I dont think they add anything  that I need to consider 
further, and so I am not summarising  the full response here. 
Aviva has also told us that it accepts my provisional decision. Aviva  has corrected the 
information it provided to us earlier  in the complaint process. Aviva says that its records 
indicate that it has only so far paid £200  to Mr W in relation to this matter. So it has offered to 
pay a further £1,800  to Mr W to match  the overall compensation of £2,000  that I proposed.  
And Aviva has let me know that it made a payment to Mr Ws financial advisor in 2018 in 
respect of some  of the time he had spent helping Mr W with this matter.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  party  has disagreed with my provisional findings,  or given me any further 
material evidence to consider, I see no reason to alter the conclusions I reached  in my 
earlier decision. But I will amend  the compensation I am directing Aviva  to pay in the light of 
the further information it has provided.
Ref: DRN40594892my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to pay an additional sum of £1,800 to him in respect of the inconvenience he has 
been caused by this error and its protracted  resolution.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 August 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN40594893EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr W complains  that Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited  incorrectly processed a pension 
commencement lump sum (PCLS) payment  from his pension policy in February  2018.
background
Mr W held pension  savings  with Aviva. As he begun to wind down his business  he took regular 
monthly PCLS payments  from his pension to supplement his income. He generally took payments of 
£2,000 each  month.
In February 2018, following  a systems change, Aviva incorrectly paid Mr W the annual equivalent on 
his scheduled PCLS payments  a sum of £24,000. Those  funds arrived unexpectedly into Mr Ws 
bank account around the same time he was dealing with other  unrelated fraudulent activity  on his 
bank account. It also crystallised  some  further funds without any request from Mr W. Aviva responded 
to Mr Ws complaint about that error  in April 2018 and it paid in £300 for the trouble hed been caused.
At Avivas request, Mr W returned the incorrectly paid funds  to Aviva  in May 2018.  However for a 
period of around 10 days Aviva told him that it was unable to trace those returned funds. Following a 
further complaint  Aviva  paid an additional £200 compensation  to Mr W in relation to the problems  
locating his returned  funds.
In the following months Mr W, and his financial advisor, sought regular  updates from Aviva as to when 
its error would  be corrected  and the incorrectly crystallised funds  returned to his uncrystallised 
account. Aviva explained  that the systems problem  needed to be resolved by a third party  but it could 
give no assurances when this would  happen. So Mr W brought his complaint  to this Service in 
October 2018.
By April 2019  Mr Ws funds  had still not been returned to the correct account,  and the uncrystallised 
part of his pension  was starting to run out of money. Aviva offered to pre- fund Mr Ws account  
essentially a loan  so that he could continue taking PCLS income until its system  fix was 
implemented, but unsure of the taxation implications of this arrangement Mr W declined the offer.
In May 2018  Mr W asked Aviva to stop paying the regular  monthly  PCLS  from his pension to protect  
the remaining funds. However Aviva failed  to act on this instruction making  further monthly  payments 
in May and June 2018. Aviva offered Mr W a further £300 in compensation in August 2019 that he 
declined.
Mr Ws complaint  was initially considered by one of our adjudicators in February 2019.  At that time,  
although Mr Ws problems hadnt been corrected, Aviva indicated that a resolution was imminent.  Our 
adjudicator recommended that Aviva pay some  additional  compensation to Mr W, with the amount 
increasing for each month  that the matter remained  unresolved. At that time there were  two issues 
outstanding  the correction  of Mr Ws uncrystallised  position, and corresponding amendments to his 
lifetime allowance  calculations.
By this time, understandably,  Mr W had lost confidence in Avivas ability  to responsibly manage his 
pension savings.  So he started to consider moving  his pension savings  to another provider.  But, quite 
reasonably, Mr Ws financial  advisor indicated that such a move would be problematic until Aviva had 
resolved the crystallised funds and lifetime  allowance calculations.
Ref: DRN40594894Ultimately Aviva was unable to confirm  it had completed all the necessary corrections to Mr Ws 
pension account  until April 2020. So whilst  that resolves  the original source of Mr Ws problems it falls 
to me in this decision to consider whether  the compensation  Aviva has paid to Mr W in respect of the 
trouble and upset this matter  has caused  him is reasonable.  Given the time that has elapsed since 
this matter was last considered by our adjudicator I am issuing a provisional decision to allow both 
parties an opportunity to comment  on my findings.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time.
At the outset I think  it is useful to reflect  on the role of this service. This service  isnt intended to 
regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. 
Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right by 
placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position  they would have  been if the problem  hadnt 
occurred.
I think  what I have said here is important, and needs to be borne in mind  throughout  this decision.  The 
problems Avivas  system failure caused didnt just affect Mr W  I understand a number  of other 
consumers were  also affected. But that isnt something I should  consider here. I am just looking at 
Mr Ws situation  and whether Aviva needs to do more to compensate him for the error it made and the 
prolonged resolution.
It seems to me that there  are a number  of factors  here that arent in dispute.  Aviva accepts  that its 
system problems  caused  it to incorrectly crystallise  some  of Mr Ws pension fund. And the emails  
I have seen from Aviva confirm that it has taken over two years to complete the rectification  of those  
problems. I understand  that Aviva hasnt been directly able to progress some of that rectification work 
 it has needed to rely on a third party that provides its processing software.  But ultimately that is an 
issue for Aviva to manage, and I dont think it provides a reasonable set of circumstances  for me to 
conclude that it shouldnt take full responsibility for the problems Mr W has faced.
But it does now seem  that Mr Ws pension account has been returned to its correct status. So in 
terms of directly putting something right there is little more  for me to ask Aviva to do. What I need to 
consider is the impact  this protracted  resolution has had on Mr W and to decide whether  the £500 
Aviva has already paid Mr W is sufficient.
Mr W has provided us with a lengthy explanation  of his circumstances before the problem occurred, 
what he needed to do during  the problems, and the residual problems  that he now faces even though 
the direct problems  have now been corrected.  It seems to me that he has acted  responsibly and 
without being overly dramatic about the impacts  of these problems. But I dont think  I can describe the 
impacts of these problems  on Mr Ws detailed plans  and living arrangements as anything  other than 
substantial. And, although obviously not the direct fault of Aviva, those impacts  have been 
significantly increased  by the problems we all currently face due to the Covid-19 epidemic restrictions.
Mr W says he intended to retire  at the end of his companys financial year in August 2019. He had 
already started planning for that event, carefully managing contract renewals of some of his clients to 
ensure that they could  smoothly move onto other providers when he stopped work. And his plans 
included the construction of a sizeable extension to his property that would facilitate the co-habitation  
of him and his partner. Given the great uncertainty caused both by Avivas initial mistake, and the fact 
that the matter  hadnt been resolved more than a year later, Mr W says he was left with no option but 
to defer many of his plans. He postponed the closure of his business  for a year.  And he changed the 
plans for his property  to a more modest programme of renovation and redecoration.  
Ref: DRN40594895As I said earlier, I have no authority, or even desire, to make  a punitive  award against Aviva for the 
error that occurred. But I think  it would  be remiss  of me to fail to recognise the substantial  impacts that 
this matter has had on Mr W. No award that I make can reasonably rectify the changes that he has 
felt forced to make  to his plans,  and the ongoing  matters  that he needs to deal with at these  difficult 
times in terms of maintaining  his business activities and his still separate  domestic living 
arrangements during  the recent lockdown  period.  And so I dont think  that the award I am making 
here will feel to Mr W that I have put things right. But it is one of the larger awards that this Service 
will make for non-financial  losses,  and so I hope that will give Mr W a degree of reassurance about 
how seriously I have taken  his concerns.
I have noted earlier that Aviva has already  paid Mr W a total of £500  in relation to the inconvenience 
this error,  and the protracted  resolution  had caused to him. But I would  note that at the time those  
payments were made, the matter had only been unresolved for around five months  in total,  the 
matter took over two years to be fully corrected. So I dont consider that the payment Aviva has 
already made is sufficient. I intent to direct Aviva to pay a further sum of £1,500 in respect of the 
inconvenience that this matter has caused  to Mr W.
For completeness  I have  considered whether  Mr W has suffered any direct financial  losses as a result 
of Avivas mistake. And there are two areas that I have considered here. Mr Ws funds  were outside  
his pension plan for a period of around three months in 2018, between when they were  incorrectly 
paid by Aviva  and them  being  returned.  But those funds would have been invested in a cash account,  
that Aviva says would have  paid interest at 0.41% at the time. So I think that any loss this has caused 
can reasonably be compensated  by the payment  I intend to ask Aviva to make.
Mr W has also been assisted  throughout this matter by his financial  advisor. Mr W himself  has said 
that he always  understood  that the pension/income  drawdown process  is complex, and that he would 
need the services of a financial advisor  in these matters. But he considers the work his advisor has 
needed to do to be far in excess of what might normally be expected.
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr W has incurred additional costs in terms of his advisors 
services due to this error. And it is simply any additional costs that I would be looking to ask Aviva to 
compensate if they had been incurred  it seems to me that it would be reasonable for Mr W to pay 
his advisor in respect of any agreement he had previously entered for the advice  and support he 
would need through a normal income/drawdown  process. But if, in response to this provisional  
decision, Mr W is able to provide evidence of additional costs being incurred in respect of his financial 
advisor I will share those with Aviva with a view to my final decision directing them  to be paid.
Ref: DRN4059489