K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in
1995. Mr S says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him the MPPI.
background
I sent Mr S and Santander my provisional decision  on 29 March  2019 explaining why I 
wasnt intending to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I said that before I made my final decision Id 
consider any more comments and evidence that I got by 29 April 2019.
Mr S responded to my provisional decision and stated that the women startled him at the 
counter in Abbey National; hes certain  theyre  still taking money out of his account;  and no 
consideration was given  to his savings, financial or self-employed  status;  he felt pushed  into 
the MPPI  and was told he had to have it if he wanted the mortgage.
I didnt receive any further points  from Santander  in response to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Ss case.
Ive reached the same  conclusions as in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
Ive explained  my reasons again  below.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint because:
Santander hasnt been able to send us the original paperwork  completed  at the time the 
MPPI was sold to Mr S. Given how long ago the MPPI  was sold to Mr S, I dont think  this 
is surprising. For the same reason, I wouldnt necessarily expect Mr Ss recollection of the 
sale to be that detailed. However,  Santander  has sent us copies of the type of paperwork 
it says wouldve been completed at the time  which  I think is reliable.  Im satisfied from 
this that the MPPI was most likely presented  as optional. Ive thought carefully about what  
Mr S has said about this, but I just dont think theres enough  evidence  to say Mr S wasnt  
given a choice.  So overall I think its most likely  that Santander made  it clear  that Mr S 
didnt have  to take out the MPPI and that he chose to take it out.
Ive considered the possibility that Mr S was pressured to take out the MPPI. But again,  I 
just dont think  theres enough evidence  for me to say this most likely happened.
Santander recommended the MPPI to Mr S so it had to check  that the MPPI  was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example, Mr S was self-employed, but I cant see that it wouldve been harder for 
Mr S, as someone  who was self-employed,  to claim under the policy. I cant  see that he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover. I understand Mr S 
has said he had another MPPI policy, but it appears the other policy  he has referred  to is 
actually the same  policy which is the subject  of this decision   so it doesnt appear  that he 
did have duplicate  cover. Also, although Mr S has said he had savings of £6,000 to 
Ref: DRN42526382£8,000, I havent seen  any evidence,  beyond what Mr S has said, that confirms  this. And 
even if Mr S did have these savings, this wouldnt  necessarily make the MPPI unsuitable. 
The policy couldve  still paid out if he couldnt  work due to accident, sickness  or 
unemployment, at what couldve  been a difficult time. So Im not persuaded I can say it 
was wrong of Santander to recommend the cover.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr S about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it could have been  useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put 
him off taking  out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said. But for the reasons explained above, these 
points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4252638