K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC Bank Plc closed  his account without warning and didnt send him 
a cheque for his closing  balance. Hes also unhappy about the service he received from 
HSBC when he complained about  the closure of his account and not receiving the cheque. 
He says this caused him trouble and upset. And put him in a financially difficult position.  He 
wants HSBC to pay him compensation. 
background
On 24 July 2018, Mr M opened  a current account online with HSBC.   
Soon after opening his account, Mr M complained to HSBC  that it hadnt correctly verified his 
identification when  he called to speak about  his account. HSBC  accepted  it had made a 
mistake and paid Mr M £115 compensation. This was paid into Mr Ms account on 25 July 
2018. 
During the account opening process HSBC conducted searches with credit reference 
agencies using the information  Mr M provided. As a result of these searches HSBC  decided 
to close Mr Ms account. On 1 August 2018,  HSBC wrote to Mr M to let him know  it was 
closing his account with immediate effect.  And that it would issue  him a cheque for the 
balance of his account - £115. On 2 August  2018,  HSBC sent a cheque to Mr Ms address 
for his closing balance.  
On 7 August  2018, Mr M called HSBC to let them know he hadnt received the cheque. 
Unfortunately the call got cut off and Mr M needed to make  several  further calls to try and 
sort things  out. HSBC  paid Mr M £50 for any inconvenience this caused him. On 9 August 
2018, Mr M changed address. And he called  HSBC to let them  know it had sent the cheque  
to his old address.  Mr M says during this call HSBC agreed to cancel the cheque  and re-
issue another which hed receive within 7 days.  
HSBC discovered that the cheque it issued to Mr M had been cashed  on 15 August 2018. 
On 23 August 2018, it wrote to Mr M to let him know  and asked him to contact them if he 
wasnt the person  whod cashed the cheque so that it could take steps to trace it. HSBC 
subsequently carried out an investigation  and concluded Mr M hadnt cashed the cheque. 
Mr M asked  HSBC to send him this information and copies  of all call recordings of 
conversations hed had with the bank. Mr M says HSBC  hasnt  provided  him with this 
information. 
On 28 August 2018, Mr M called HSBC let it know he still hadnt  received the cheque  for 
£115. During this call HSBC recognised that it hadnt updated its systems properly regarding  
Mr Ms complaint. So HSBC offered Mr M £40 compensation for any inconvenience  this may 
have caused him. HSBC  also told Mr M that the cheque had gone to his old address.  It 
offered Mr M £85 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience this caused him. And it 
arranged his closing  balance to be paid into his new bank account by bank transfer.  
HSBC accepts it shouldve provided Mr M with better service.  It has apologised and paid 
Mr M a total of £175 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused as a result of 
him having to make  a number of phone  calls and not receiving his closing balance  cheque 
within 7 days.  HSBC has also returned  Mr Ms closing  balance to him and provided Mr M 
with the information he wanted. 
Ref: DRN43135682Mr M says the amount of compensation offered by HSBC doesnt adequately reflect the 
distress and inconvenience hes suffered. He says HSBC shouldnt  have closed  his account 
immediately. And as a result of the closure  his wages couldnt be paid and his mortgage 
payment was affected, which  caused  him serious  financial difficulties. Hes also said he had 
to take time off work  to visit his local branches  and spend hours on the phone  try and sort 
things out with HSBC. He wants  HSBC  to pay him between £500 and £800  compensation.  
So he brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint. He said HSBC had acted in accordance with 
the account terms and conditions  when  it had closed his account.  The investigator said 
HSBC had sent Mr M the information hed asked  it to provide. But it wasnt  able to provide a 
recording of the call hed made on 9 August 2018 because  it wasnt available. The 
investigator thought  HSBC had done  enough to put things right. Mr M disagreed so the 
complaint has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to issuing my decision  I asked  HSBC to provide me with any evidence  that Mr M had 
visited a branch. But it wasnt able to provide any further information. HSBC also confirmed 
that it does not have  a recording of its conversation with Mr M on 9 August 2018.  So Ive 
based my decision  on the evidence  I do have.  
account closure
Mr M says HSBC  shouldnt have closed his account immediately. He thinks HSBC should 
have given him more  notice. He says this put him into financial difficulties as he didnt have  
an account for his wages  to be paid into. And he fell behind with his bills. 
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of the account, which HSBC and Mr M had to comply with, say 
that it could close  the account by giving them at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account  without notice. Having looked  at the information 
provided by HSBC, Im satisfied that HSBC was entitled to close  the account as it seems its 
already done.  Ive also noted HSBC wrote  to Mr M on 1 August 2018, to explain why it had 
decided to close his account. 
I appreciate that HSBC  closing Mr Ms account  wouldve  caused  him some difficulty. But 
having looked at whats happened  in this particular case, I can see no basis on which  I might  
make an award against HSBC given that I dont  think it failed to properly follow its own 
procedures when it closed  Mr Ms account. So Im not going to ask HSBC to compensate  
Mr M for any distress and inconvenience this may have caused.
service issues
Having listened  to call recordings  of Mr Ms conversations with HSBC, and looked at whats  
happened in this particular case,  Im satisfied that Mr M was caused some  inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN43135683HSBC accepts it shouldve provided Mr M with better service.  Its acknowledged Mr M had to 
make several phone calls to try and sort things  out. And that it sent a cheque to Mr Ms old 
address for his closing balance.
Mr M says because  he didnt receive  the compensation cheque for £115, he struggled  
financially. In particular  hes told us that he could only make  a part payment towards  his 
mortgage. And he had to return his mobile  phone  because he couldnt afford to pay for it. 
Mr M has also said he had to take time off work to visit a branch to try and sort things out, 
which caused him a great deal of inconvenience.  He wants  HSBC to compensate him for his 
time and travel costs.  
HSBC has paid Mr M £175 in compensation for providing him with poor service. I know  that 
Mr M says that isnt enough.  And hes told us that this issue has caused him a lot of trouble.  
Ive considered that carefully. But our role isnt to punish businesses for their mistakes.  We 
award what we think is fair and reasonable. And the compensation  HSBC has offered  is in 
line with the sorts of awards our service usually recommends.  So overall, I think its the right 
amount of compensation. 
In summary,  I think HSBCs offer to pay a further  £175 in compensation to Mr M is fair and 
reasonable. And, while I appreciate Mr M wont agree, I wont be asking it to do anything 
more.
information provision
Mr M says HSBC  hasnt provided  him with information he requested.  But I can see that 
HSBC sent the information Mr M wanted to Mr Ms address on 13 August 2018 via recorded  
delivery and that it was signed as received on 14 August 2018. Mr M says he didnt receive 
the information. In response HSBC sent the information to a branch  and made Mr M aware  it 
had done this. So I cant say HSBC havent  complied with Mr Ms request. If Mr M remains 
concerned that HSBC  hasnt complied with his request for information,  I recommend that he 
takes this up with the Information Commissioners Office. 
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC Bank Plc has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle this 
complaint. So I wont  be asking it to do anything more. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject  my decision before 6 April 
2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4313568