K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained about Advantage Insurance  Company Limiteds handling of her car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes their agents.
background
Mrs M had car insurance with Advantage. On 21 November 2018, she was involved in an 
accident with another  car and claimed on her policy. 
Mrs M said the other driver was to blame for the accident. But Advantage settled the claim 
on a 50/50 split liability basis saying both drivers were equally to blame. Mrs M felt 
Advantages decision was unreasonable, so she complained.  She was also unhappy about 
various aspects of Advantages service.
Advantage accepted that their service could have been better. As an apology they offered 
Mrs M £150  compensation.  But Advantage said their decision to settle the claim in the way 
they did was correct. Mrs M didnt think that was fair, so she brought her complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators looked  into it. He felt that Advantage had dealt with Mrs M 
fairly. As Mrs M didnt  agree with our investigator, the complaint has been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mrs M, but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered all of Mrs Ms points carefully.  But, in this decision, I will focus on what I 
consider to be the key issues. My role isnt to decide  who was at fault for the accident, its to 
decide if Advantage have dealt with Mrs M in a fair and reasonable way.
the decision to settle the claim on a 50/50  split liability basis
Under the policy, Advantage have the discretion to settle claims as they feel appropriate 
without the need to get Mrs Ms agreement. But I expect them to exercise that discretion in a 
fair and reasonable way.
Advantage based their decision on, amongst other things, Mrs Ms first account of what  
happened when  she reported the accident by phone on 21 November 2018; the Accident 
Report Form she completed  on 29 November  2018;  photos of her damaged car; and satellite 
images of the location of the accident.  
Mrs M said she was driving on a dual carriageway and the other car was behind  her. In the 
initial call she said she was hit by the other  car while she was doing  a U-turn. Mrs M later 
said in the Accident Report Form  that she was in the right hand  lane of the dual carriageway 
and she indicated to turn right when the other  car came up from behind  her and hit her car. 
Mrs M said she wasnt doing  a U-turn and when she reported  the incident  by phone she was 
in a distressed  state and made a poor choice of words.
Ref: DRN41195032Advantage felt that the accident couldnt  have  happened  as Mrs M described.  All the 
damage to Mrs Ms car was to the right hand  side and not the back. Advantage said they 
expected damage  to the rear of Mrs Ms car if the accident happened  as she said.  From a 
lay perspective I can understand why Advantage reached that conclusion.  Mrs M said she 
was in the right hand lane of the dual carriageway turning right. And the other car came up 
from behind and crashed into her. But he crashed into the side of her car. Advantage said if 
Mrs M was positioned in the right hand  lane and she did a U-turn,  it was difficult for her to 
successfully complete the turn given  the width of the dual carriageway on the opposite side.  
So, Advantage feel she may have swung to her left to give her a wide enough  berth before 
turning right to complete  the U-turn. So, she may have cut into the path of the other  car 
travelling in the right hand lane. 
I appreciate Mrs M later said she wasnt doing a U-turn but just a right turn. And having 
listened to the call where she first explained  the accident she did say she was shaken  up. 
But I found that she was composed  and was able to give a detailed explanation  of what 
happened. And she said on more  than one occasion that she was doing a U-turn.  I therefore 
think it was reasonable  for Advantage to rely on Mrs Ms first account,  especially as the 
accident was fresh in her mind  at the time. 
The decision  to settle on a split liability basis was made by Advantages specialist liability 
team. And they have  experience in dealing with cases such as this. And they will know  that 
Mrs M giving  two different  versions  of what happened would damage the reliability  of her 
evidence were the case to go to court.  And I note that the claims handler who took Mrs Ms 
first account  told her from the start that he felt both drivers  were  likely to be held equally 
responsible.
Mrs M said Advantage made their decision without properly investigating. In particular, she 
said she had a witness who wasnt contacted. Its correct that Mrs M gave Advantage the 
details of a witness  and as far as I can see Advantage never contacted  him. But during 
Mrs Ms first account to Advantage, she said of the witness:  Someone  did stop, I got their 
details but they said they only saw afterwards.  So, it would appear that the witness didnt 
see the actual  accident otherwise I think he wouldnt have  told Mrs M that he only saw 
afterwards. I therefore think that Advantages decision would have been the same even if 
they spoke with the witness.
On the evidence available to Advantage, I think  their decision to settle the claim on a 50/50 
split liability basis was reasonable. Im therefore not upholding  this aspect of the complaint. 
Mrs M can, if she believes the other driver  was totally at fault for the accident, get legal 
advice about taking action herself.
Advantages service
Advantage have  accepted that their service could have been better and to address that 
theyve offered Mrs M £150  compensation which I think  is reasonable.
In summary,  Mrs M was unhappy that she had to keep  chasing Advantage for updates; 
Advantage didnt  properly  explain to her what to expect from the claims process; there  were  
delays in the process of her car being examined and being declared a total loss, and in 
Advantage paying her total loss settlement; she was without a car for a period of time as the 
courtesy car was taken  away  after a while; and she said there were delays in Advantage 
paying her for a replacement child seat and a child seat base.
Ref: DRN41195033Although Advantage have accepted their service  could  have been better, they dont agree 
with everything Mrs M said. For example, Advantage said they paid her for the child seats in 
a timely  manner once  they received her receipts. And during the dispute about the total loss 
valuation, Advantage offered Mrs M an interim payment which  would have given her funds to 
buy a replacement car. But she initially refused the interim payment only to accept it almost 
two weeks later. But even if I were  to accept Mrs Ms version of events, I think  the 
compensation Advantage offered was reasonable in addressing  the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced. I say that because the amount offered by Advantage is 
similar to the types of compensation our service  awards in complaints of similar seriousness. 
Im therefore  not asking  Advantage  to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2020. 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4119503