K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr and Mrs H arranged a mortgage through Lloyds in 2003 and PPI was added to cover their 
monthly mortgage repayments if Mr H couldnt work  due to disablement  or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr and Mrs H disagreed  with the 
adjudicator, so the complaint was passed  to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints  about the 
sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs Hs main point is that nothing was mentioned  about  PPI during the sale and that they 
werent aware it had been added. I dont know for certain  what  was said during the sale but Lloyds 
has provided documentation from the time which shows me that it made it clear to Mr and Mrs H 
that it was offering them optional PPI that was separate to the mortgage. And I believe Mr and 
Mrs H chose to go ahead  with it knowing that was the case. 
For example, I can see Mr and Mrs H ticked a box on their signed  mortgage application form to say 
they wanted PPI. They  also signed  a separate PPI application form, which  included  details  of the 
amount to be protected and how the benefits were  to be split, and a separate  direct debit 
instruction for the monthly premium.  
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. If thats the case  that meant, as well as 
having to give them enough information to make an informed choice about taking it, Lloyds should 
have looked into whether  it was right for them. I dont know what steps Lloyds took but I think its 
recommendation was suitable for them in any case.
From what  Mr and Mrs H  and in particular Mr H, as the insured person  told us about their 
circumstances in 2003, it appears he was eligible for the cover.  And Ive seen nothing  to show  that 
the monthly premium  of £30 was unaffordable for them.  
There were some exclusions to, or limits  on, the cover. For example, the policy wouldnt have 
covered Mr H for claims  for pre-existing medical conditions. Mr and Mrs H say Mr H had more  than 
one medical condition and Ive thought about whether this might have meant the PPI wasnt  
suitable for them. However,  the information  indicates to me that the conditions either werent a 
significant factor fro Mr H until after the sale or were largely controlled with treatment and/or 
medication. I cant see that the conditions significantly impacted on Mr Hs daily or working life. So I 
think the PPI was still suitable  in this regard.
Ref: DRN46619462Mr and Mrs H say Mr H was entitled to redundancy pay and enhanced sick pay for a time but the 
PPI would have  paid out on top of that and for up to 12 months  per claim. I note Mr and Mrs H also 
say Mr H was entitled  to death  in service benefit but that provided a different type of benefit  to the 
PPI. The former would have paid a lump sum on Mr Hs death whereas the PPI paid a monthly 
benefit to go towards  the mortgage payments. So Im satisfied the insurance policies covered 
different things. The PPI would  also have  allowed them to retain any savings they had or use them  
to cover their other living costs if Mr H wasnt  working. 
Overall, and taking into account that Mr and Mrs Hs borrowing was secured against  their home, I 
think its likely theyd have valued  the additional  protection the PPI provided them with.
Its possible Lloyds didnt  point out everything  it should have about the PPI, but I dont find that 
Mr and Mrs H lost out because of that. I say this because, for the same reasons I think the PPI was 
suitable for them, I dont  think  better information  would have stopped them  from buying  it. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Lloyds  mis-sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept  
or reject my decision before 13 September 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4661946