K821x#15complaint
Miss M disputes the damage charges that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited  
(MBFS) made when  she returned  her vehicle at the conclusion of her finance deal. Shes 
also upset that she was told she could claim on her wheel  insurance for some of the damage  
but has since discovered this isnt possible.
background
Miss M took receipt of a used vehicle in August 2015. The vehicle was first registered in 
2014 and had completed almost 15,000 miles at that time. Miss M financed the deal through  
a three  year hire purchase agreement with MBFS. 
But when she returned the vehicle at the end of the lease she was disappointed to find that 
MBFS charged her for some refurbishment, they said was necessary to bring  the vehicle 
back to the standard required.  She said this was a used  vehicle  and the scuffs they referred 
to were wear  and tear. She was also unhappy about being asked to pay for any damage to 
the wheels. She explained that the inspector, whod completed the handover  inspection,  had 
told her she would be able to make a claim on her wheel insurance  after hed taken the car 
back but that now didnt seem  possible.
But MBFS didnt agree. They said the damage  was clearly outside  of the standard required 
in their vehicle returns  policy and they explained that this had been adequately 
communicated to Miss M at the start of the agreement and in the months leading up to the 
return of the car. They thought it unlikely that the inspector  would have told Miss M, that she 
could claim for any wheel damage  on her insurance when she returned the car, as they 
explained that once ownership  had been transferred to them, on termination  of the deal, 
Miss M would no longer  be covered by this insurance. They  did, however, offer to reduce the 
outstanding bill by 15%. The final bill was therefore £636.74.
But Miss M was still disappointed so she contacted  this service and asked our investigator to 
take a look. He reviewed  each  of the nine areas  MBFS had claimed required refurbishment. 
He agreed that six of those charges were outside  of the standard  hed expect but he thought  
the three charges that had been  levied for internal panel scuffing had been unfairly charged. 
He said they were what he would consider to be normal  wear  and tear in a vehicle of this 
age. He explained that when the vehicle was returned to MBFS Miss Ms wheel cover would 
cease and she wouldnt be able to claim on it and he was satisfied that, regardless of any 
contested comments  by the inspector,  Miss M had been given enough notice of the 
inspection and the standards required so she could make a claim on her insurance and have 
the damage rectified before  the inspection. Overall,  it was the investigators  view that the 
charges for the scuffed  panels were removed and the final bill was therefore £547.49.
Miss M didnt agree with the investigators view and neither did MBFS who said the scuffs  
were clearly outside of the acceptable standard. They did however, accept that the scuff to 
the B post could be waived.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN48849332I know it will disappoint Miss M but I agree with the investigators opinion on this complaint 
and dont think MBFS need to go any further.  Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The hire purchase agreement Miss M signed  explained that she would be responsible  for 
any deterioration of the vehicle which was in excess of fair wear and tear and she was 
reminded of this standard in advance of the handover inspection.
So Im satisfied that Miss M knew the standard the vehicle needed to be returned in.
Its important to remember here that the vehicle wasnt  new when Miss M received it. The 
standard MBFS applied  needed to take into account  the age of the vehicle and that some,  
albeit minor damage, could be expected at the point of supply. 
Ive reviewed each  of the nine areas  of damage  that MBFS have suggested charges should 
be made for. I note that Miss M doesnt dispute her responsibility for the dented  wing panel 
but I think the scuffs  to the B Post, glove compartment and seat back are all minor defects 
that should be expected  in a used vehicle.  I dont think its fair of MBFS to levy charges for 
their refurbishment.
The remaining  charges  all relate to damaged wheels. I understand that Miss M is frustrated 
that the inspector told her she could make  a claim for this damage later. This is disputed by 
MBFS and theres no record of what was said at handover. But Im satisfied that Miss M 
knew about the standard the vehicle needed  to be returned in and had ample  time to make a 
claim and have the damage  repaired  before she returned the car. So I think its fair Miss M is 
held responsible for any damage thats beyond fair wear and tear.
Having reviewed the damage  to the wheels  Im satisfied that its all chargeable. In each 
instance the damage is beyond what Id expect of fair wear and tear. 
So whilst I think MBFS should remove some of the charges  I think there are others that 
should still apply.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and tell Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited to 
remove charges for the scuffed B Post; glove box and seat back totalling £105. The final 
refurbishment bill should therefore be £547.49.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
Ref: DRN48849333ombudsman
Ref: DRN4884933