K821x#15complaint
Mr G has private  medical insurance with Vitality Health Limited and complains about the
availability of one of the benefits  under  his policy.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
11 October 2019, an extract of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. So, I 
wont repeat  that information here.  
In my provisional decision I set out what I thought was a fair resolution to the complaint. I 
invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. 
Vitality said it had nothing  further to add. Mr G said hed accept compensation of £100  but he 
felt that was insufficient. He said that Vitality  had done the bare minimum and he would have  
welcomed an apology  and a commitment to be more transparent.
   
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand from Mr Gs response that he doesnt  want to take up the offer of an Apple 
Watch Series 4 and that he, somewhat reluctantly,  accepts compensation of £100. Ive noted 
what Mr G says. I dont  think a forced  apology would have much meaning,  so I wont ask 
Vitality to issue one. Similarly, I dont think it would be meaningful  to direct Vitality to be more  
transparent and I have no power  to direct Vitality  generally about how it communicates with 
customers. 
Considering everything  and taking into account  Mr Gs preference, I think a fair outcome is 
for Vitality to pay Mr G compensation of £100  in relation to his inconvenience. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Mr Gs complaint. I 
now require Vitality Health  Limited  to pay Mr G compensation of £100 in relation to his 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019. 
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41601772extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr G has private medical insurance with Vitality Health  Limited and complains about the availability of 
one of the benefits under  his policy.
background
I understand  that Mr G entered  into a fixed sum loan agreement with a third party  in relation to an 
Apple Watch as one of the benefits under his policy.  That loan agreement  ended on 31 December 
2018.
In December  2018, Vitality sent Mr G an offer in relation to an Apple Watch  Series 4 for an upfront 
payment of £99, subject to terms  and conditions. Mr G wanted to take up the offer. Vitality said that 
Mr G couldnt take up the offer, as hed previously had an Apple Watch and the offer was open  to 
new customers. Vitality  said that Mr G could take up the offer later in January 2019,  when the 
upfront payment would increase.
Mr G complained to Vitality.  He believed  he was eligible for the offer, that Vitality had treated  him 
unfairly and hadnt been clear in its dealings with him.
One of our adjudicators looked at what at happened. He agreed  with Mr G that Vitalitys offer didnt 
make it clear that it was for new customers only and said that Mr G should have been able to upgrade 
to the Apple  Watch Series  4.
Vitality agreed that it could have been clearer in some of the information it provided to Mr G. It 
offered Mr G £100 towards an Apple Watch. That offer was put to Mr G as an offer of compensation  
of £100, which he didnt think was sufficient. He thought that compensation  of £200 was appropriate  
but Vitality didnt agree.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr G has very strong feelings about this matter. Hes provided detailed  submissions  to 
support his complaint, which I have read and considered. However, I trust that he will not take as a 
discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the central issues.
Vitality accepts that it could have been clearer in relation to some of the information  it gave to Mr G. 
So, I dont need to expand further about the offer or Vitalitys communications with Mr G. I 
appreciate that Mr G has firm views about  how Vitality conducts its business. This service isnt the 
regulator and I have  no powers to direct Vitality generally  about how it communicates  with 
customers.
The remaining issue for me to decide  is how this matter can be resolved fairly.
I think that a fair resolution  here is for Vitality to make available to Mr G its offer for the Apple Watch 
Series 4 for the upfront payment of £99, subject to that offers terms and conditions, which include 
setting up a consumer credit agreement and a direct debit. So that theres  certainty on both sides, I 
think that the offer should  be available  to Mr G for up to one month  following his acceptance of a final 
decision in this case.
Ref: DRN41601773Vitality should  also pay Mr G compensation of £100 in relation to his distress and inconvenience.  
Mr G may choose to use the compensation as the upfront payment for the Apple Watch Series 4.
Mr G considers that compensation of £100 isnt enough. He says that this matter has taken a lot of 
time. Ive noted what Mr G says but I think that compensation  of £100 is fair in this
case. In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature, duration and extent of Mr Gs distress 
and inconvenience caused  by the poor information provided by Vitality.  Whilst  dealing with this 
matter was no doubt annoying to Mr G, I dont think that it caused him distress  and his 
inconvenience was at the lower end of the cases we see.
If Mr G no longer  wishes to take up Vitalitys  offer of an Apple Watch  Series 4, then its 
sufficient for it to pay Mr G compensation  of £100 in relation to his distress and inconvenience.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold Mr Gs complaint. I intend to direct Vitality
Health Limited to;
1.make available  to Mr G for one month following his acceptance of a final decision  in this 
case its offer for the Apple Watch  Series 4 for the upfront payment of £99, subject to that 
offers terms and conditions and
2.pay Mr G compensation of £100 in relation to his distress  and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN4160177