K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about how his name  was shown on a credit  card he had with 
Capital One (Europe) plc. 
Mr H also complains about  Capital  Ones recovery action from February 2012. 
background
Mr H opened a credit card with Capital  One in 2007 but when the card was sent to him it 
incorrectly said his middle initial was H. Mr H wrote  to Capital One in June 2008 and asked 
it to change the way his name was displayed. Capital  One didnt send Mr H a replacement  
card without the middle initial  but did write to him. 
The credit card was defaulted  in 2010. The debt was sold to another  business in 
September 2015.
In February 2018  Mr H complained to Capital One.  It didnt  agree  Mr Hs credit card had 
been mis-sold or that hed been  unfairly charged. Capital  One also said Mr Hs credit card 
was defaulted  correctly. When Mr H referred  his complaint to this service Capital One raised  
an objection to us considering it. Capital  One said Mr H had complained too late. 
The adjudicator agreed that some of the issues Mr H had raised  had been referred to us too 
late so we couldnt look at them. But she said we could look at the way Mr Hs name was 
shown on his credit card and Capital  Ones  collections  activity from February 2012 onwards. 
She agreed  that Mr Hs name was incorrectly displayed on his credit  card but didnt  think  it 
had impacted him or caused a loss. And the adjudicator  didnt find any problems with 
Capital Ones collections activity.  Mr H didnt agree and the case  was passed to me to make 
a decision concerning what parts of his complaint we could look at. 
I issued my decision on 20 March  2019  and said we could look at complaints about how 
Mr Hs name  was shown on the credit  card and Capital Ones collection activity from 
February 2012. But I agreed  with the adjudicator that all other parts of Mr Hs complaint had 
been referred to us too late. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Ive said above, Ive already  explained  
why I can only look at how Mr Hs name was shown on the credit card and Capital Ones 
collection activity from February 2012  in my decision dated 20 March  2019. I wont repeat 
my decision  again  here.
Ive looked at each of the complaints Mr H has made that were allowed to consider. The first 
issue Ive looked  at was the way his name is displayed.  Ive seen the original application 
Mr H completed  in 2007 and can see that his surname is written  twice. It appears Capital 
One took the approach  that Mr Hs middle name and surname were  the same. 
I can see from Mr Hs letter  to Capital One in June 2008 that he asked it to amend the format 
of his name and that it didnt do that. But Capital Ones sent in systems evidence  to show on 
2 July 2008 it wrote back to Mr H. Capital  One says it asked him to contact it again to 
Ref: DRN44521172discuss his request but never received a response. Looking at Capital Ones  contact  notes 
from the time, I cant see anything to show Mr H followed up its letter or his request  to 
amend his name. 
I also need to think about how the issue impacted  Mr H. Capital One says the middle initial  
wasnt reported to the credit  reference  agencies and Ive not seen any evidence  its caused 
Mr H a loss. I understand why Mr H wanted  to have his name correctly set out but as he 
didnt respond  to Capital Ones follow up letter and it didnt cause him a loss Im not telling it 
to take any further  action.  
Mr H complains about Capital Ones collections activity.  I explained  in my decision dated 
20 March 2019  why I can only look at what's happened since February 2012. Ive looked  at 
Capital Ones collections log and can see that after February 2012 it contacted Mr H twice,  
both times  by letter. Capital One wrote to Mr H on 28 March 2012  and again  on 5 July 2012. 
Both times, it wrote  to Mr H about  the outstanding  debt. Capital One then wrote to Mr H 
again on 15 September 2015 to say it was selling the debt to another business.  Capital One 
followed this up with confirmation the debt had been  sold on 26 November 2015. 
Ive looked carefully  at everything Capital Ones done since February 2012 but I havent 
seen anything to show its treated Mr H unfairly  or put an unreasonable amount of pressure 
on him to repay the outstanding balance. Once Capital One sold the debt to another  
business in September 2015  it stopped all collections activity.  
As I havent  found  the way Mr Hs name was displayed on his credit card caused  a loss or 
impacted him unfairly and Im satisfied Capital Ones collection activity from 
February 2012 was reasonable  Im not telling it to do anything else to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4452117