K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Bank  of Scotland plc turned down his request for additional borrowing. 
He also complains that it wont remove his ex-partner from the mortgage.
background
Mr A asked Bank of Scotland for additional borrowing to pay for repairs to his roof. Bank of 
Scotland turned down his request, saying this was because his account  was in arrears.  
Mr A says hes owed about £37,000  by his ex-partner  which she will only pay if her name  is 
removed from the account. He says Bank  of Scotlands refusal to remove  his ex partner from 
the account has caused him financial hardship. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said Bank of 
Scotland treated Mr A fairly when it considered his requests:
Bank of Scotland turned down Mr Ms request for further borrowing as it said it wasnt  
affordable. His account was in arrears and he hadnt maintained  agreed monthly 
payments over the last 12 months. 
Bank of Scotland says it wont remove a borrower  from a mortgage account while its in 
arrears. Mr Ms account was in arrears  before he asked Bank  of Scotland to remove  his 
ex-partner from the account. 
Mr M didnt  agree. He said he understands that Bank of Scotland has lending criteria. But he 
wants to be treated as a human being  and with compassion. He says mending the roof is 
essential as this is his family home  where he cares for a child and a vulnerable adult. Mr M 
says mending the roof would require  further  borrowing  of about £7,000, which  would only 
increase monthly  payments by £40. He says he has maintained  monthly payments and 
theres significant equity  in the property.
Mr M says if Bank of Scotland  had removed his partner from the account in 2006 he wouldnt  
be in financial hardship. He says hes the only person making  payments  to the mortgage 
account. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
changes to names on the mortgage account
Mr M took out the mortgage jointly with his then partner. They separated in 2006  and reached 
an agreement about their assets. Mr M says he only received part of the amount owed to him 
by his ex partner as Bank of Scotland refused to remove her name from the account. 
Ref: DRN48879162Bank of Scotland says it doesnt remove borrowers  from mortgage  accounts when the 
account is in arrears. This account  was in arrears from 2005   before Mr M says he 
separated from his ex partner. Bank  of Scotland  says before it removes  a borrower from a 
mortgage account, the remaining borrower has to meet  credit  checks  and an affordability 
assessment which  Mr M has previously failed. 
I dont think Bank of Scotland treated Mr M unfairly when considering his request. 
additional lending  for roof repairs
Mr M says he needs additional  borrowing to make  essential repairs  to his roof. Its 
understandable that he wants to provide a safe and comfortable home for his family. 
But I must also take into account  Bank  of Scotlands responsibilities as a lender. It has to 
assess whether further lending  is affordable. It says further lending  to Mr M isnt affordable. 
It says it cant  offer further lending as his account  is in arrears. Its decision was reviewed by 
a senior manager.  
Mr M says the additional borrowing wont increase his monthly payments significantly. 
He disputes that his account is in arrears  and says hes made agreed payments. But the 
available evidence doesnt support this. Mr M missed or underpaid almost  all contractual 
monthly payments  between October 2017 and September 2018.  
I appreciate that Mr M will be disappointed.  But I think Bank of Scotland treated him fairly 
when it considered his requests. It follows that I dont think  its fair and reasonable to require 
Bank of Scotland to re-consider Mr Ms requests or change its decisions. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4887916