K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed crediting his account following a 
deposit of a cheque.
background
Mr S says a cheque for just over £800 was deposited into his account on 18 December 
2018. He says he asked Barclays in early  January 2019 what had happened  to it and was 
told there was a problem  with the cheque issuer.  Mr S says he became unwell at hearing 
that news and was taken to hospital before being  released that day. He says the cheque did 
clear but he would like substantial compensation for what  took place.
Barclays accepts it made  a mistake and didnt process the cheque correctly.  It also accepts 
it gave Mr S incorrect  information when he called, by telling him the fault was that of the 
cheque issuer. Barclays has offered £150 compensation but says Mr S had existing health 
concerns before he called  it and that the mistake  didnt mean Mr S didnt have  access  to 
money.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought Barclays compensation offer 
was fair and reasonable. The investigator accepted  Barclays  had made mistakes and given 
Mr S incorrect information but thought he had existing medical conditions.
Mr S doesnt  accept that view and says he thought the compensation should be in the 
thousands for what took place.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons.  I realise Mr S will be disappointed  
by my decision.
There is no question here that Barclays made a number of mistakes. It didnt process the 
cheque appropriately  and then made matters worse by telling Mr S that the problem was 
with the cheque issuer.  I have no doubt  in those circumstances that Mr S was caused 
distress and inconvenience in having to call Barclays and wait for his money. But Im 
satisfied that Barclays  has fairly  apologised for its mistakes and taken responsibility for what  
took place as well as explaining it made the mistake  and not the cheque  issuer. 
I appreciate that Mr S felt unwell and went to hospital after the call between him and 
Barclays. But I cant be sure Barclays actions contributed  to that as I can see that Mr S has 
existing medical conditions and I can see that in any event  Mr S was discharged  from 
hospital that same day.
The key question here is the level of compensation. And Im satisfied that Barclays offer of 
£150 is fair and reasonable.  I dont  think Mr S was unable to access  money during the extra  
time he waited for the cheque to clear  and can see that it cleared on 14 January 2019  
instead of about 24 December 2018.  So I dont think the delay was particular long or 
significant and I dont think Mr S suffered any financial loss as a result of Barclays  mistakes.
I appreciate that Mr S says the award should be in the thousands. But whilst Im sorry to 
disagree with him I dont  think the mistakes and impact on Mr S justify that sort of award. In 
Ref: DRN42444702the circumstances I will leave it to Mr S to decide if he wishes to accept Barclays offer as I 
can see that he may be considering alternative action.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable offer of 
£150 compensation. Mr Ss acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of 
this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.  
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4244470