K820x#14complaint
Mr As complaint is that he is unhappy Aviva Insurance  Limited  has declined a claim he 
made under his home  insurance policy.
background
In March 2019 Mr A contacted Aviva as he had concerns about damage to an upstairs floor 
in his home. He described it as the floor feeling like it was at a tilt and that it had dropped by 
around 2 cm. It was thought that the damage had been caused by water,  but it wasnt known 
for certain  what the source of the water was.
Aviva appointed a firm of loss adjusters  to assess the claim. The loss adjuster attended 
about a week  after the claim was made. Mr and Mrs A suggested that the damage might  
have been due to a leak from their boiler  two years earlier or a leak under their bath theyd 
had more recently. The loss adjuster said that the corner of a bedroom had dropped by 
approximately 10mm  from the skirting board. The floor didnt move when pressure was put 
on it and he found  no moisture in the walls, floor or skirting. The same was the case in the 
adjoining bedroom and boiler  cupboard.  
The loss adjuster did, however, note floor swelling  to the landing and bathroom floors  from 
water ingress. He also noted a lot of wear  to the floors throughout the first floor.  He told 
Mr and Mrs A that he was unable to accept the claim  as he couldnt confirm  the damage had 
been caused by an escape  of water. However,  it was suggested  Mr and Mrs A have a joiner 
lift the floor to inspect  and determine  what the cause of damage was. The loss adjuster  also 
suggested Mr and Mrs A check if they had home  emergency cover  under the policy and if 
they did, use that to try and find the source  of the water they thought  was causing the 
damage. Mr and Mrs A was not happy that the loss adjuster arrived  early for the 
appointment and said he was rude.
Mr A contacted Aviva again and an appointment was made  for a plumber to attend  under the 
home emergency cover. Aviva also explained at that time the policy provided trace and 
access cover, so any damage caused  when finding  and accessing  the leak would be 
covered by the policy. Mr As concerns about the attitude of the loss adjuster were  referred  
to the firm he worked for.
When the plumber  attended he was unable  to find a leak in the house. Mr A was not happy  
about this and he also said he was unhappy  with the plumbers attitude.
Mr A called Aviva and explained  what he had been told. He wasnt happy that hed been  told 
to trace  the leak only to be told there  was no leak. Mr A told the call handler  that theyd had a 
leak some  years before that might have  been  the cause of the damage. Aviva explained that 
it was only responsible for damage caused by things that had happened since that January; 
when the policy had started. Mr A was told if the damage had been  caused by the leak 
several years earlier, he would need  to go back to the insurer  that had provided cover at the 
time. It was also explained that if the damage  had been caused by something  to do with how 
the property had been built,  there wouldnt be a valid claim as it would be considered a 
maintenance issue. 
Aviva subsequently confirmed to Mr and Mrs A that it didnt accept the claim. Mrs A said they 
were not willing to accept  the rejection of the claim and said she thought  Aviva  was trying to 
get out of paying the claim. It was again  explained  that if the historic leak had caused the 
Ref: DRN48304602damage it wouldnt be covered as it had happened  before  Aviva  insured the property. Mrs A 
asked that a loss adjuster be sent out to the house again. 
Given nothing had changed since the previous loss adjusters  visit, Aviva  decided there 
would be no benefit  to sending someone out again. It telephoned Mr A and told him this. 
Aviva said if Mr A got his own builder  out and the builder identified  the cause  of the damage, 
it would  consider the matter again.  Mr A wasnt happy with Avivas  position. 
Following this conversation Mr A arranged for a builder to assess  the problem and Aviva was 
told the damage was either due to the historic leak or poor joists.  Aviva confirmed to Mrs A 
neither of those  things  would be covered by the policy. Mrs A was very unhappy  and said 
they might  have had a leak since  the policy went on cover. Aviva confirmed if that was the 
case, and she could provide evidence of the repair to stop the leak,  it would look at the claim 
again. However, it was then confirmed by Mr A that no leak had been repaired during the 
period in question. Mr A confirmed the builder had said further investigations  would need  to 
be done to confirm the cause of damage. Aviva again confirmed  that Mr A should call it back 
once the cause of damage was known. A complaint was logged because  Mr and Mrs A were 
so unhappy that the claim had been  declined.
A couple of days later Mr A called to find out if the policy covered repairs  to silicone around 
sanitary fittings. The cover available under  the policy was explained to Mr A and that what  he 
had asked about wasnt covered. Mr A suggested that he had subsidence as the flooring on 
the ground and first floors had dropped. It was arranged that the person dealing with his 
claim would call him the following week. When that call happened, Mr A confirmed his 
builder had said he wouldnt know what the cause of damage was until he had cut a hole in 
the floor. It was agreed  the cause of damage wasnt known and nothing  could be decided  
until it was. 
Aviva sent Mr A its formal  response to the complaint by email the following day. It confirmed 
that it didnt uphold the complaint or change its claim decision.  It confirmed its previous 
explanations that it would  only pay for damage to a property when it had been evidenced 
that the damage was caused  by one of the causes (insured perils)  listed in the insurance  
policy. As it had been unable  to identify the cause of damage  to Mr A and Mrs As home,  it 
couldnt confirm  the damage  had been caused by an insured peril and accept the claim. It, 
however, said that if Mr A could provide further evidence about  the cause of the damage,  it 
would consider the claim further.
Mr A didnt accept Avivas position and referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators considered  the complaint, but didnt recommend  it be upheld. Mr A disagreed 
with the investigators  conclusions.  He said he thought Aviva was responsible for the work as 
he was paying  it each and every month for his policy. As the policy  covers  buildings, and the 
damage is to the building,  the claim should  be covered.  As agreement  couldnt be reached,  
the complaint  has been passed to me for consideration. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Buildings insurance policies dont cover  everything that can happen to a property.  The type 
Mr A arranged is called a perils based policy in that it only covers  damage if that damage is 
caused by one of a number of specified events  (or perils) listed  in the policy.  If damage 
Ref: DRN48304603happens, but isnt caused by any of the insured perils,  then the policy doesnt provide any 
cover for it. 
In addition, such policies  only provide  cover  for events and damage that happen during the 
period the policy  is in place. If the insured peril and damage occurred before the policy  
started, any claim would  need to be made to the previous insurer.  
It is technically the policyholders responsibility  to prove any damage being  claimed  for has 
been caused by an insured peril. However,  in reality, it tends to be a joint responsibility. That 
is why Aviva sent its representative out to look at the damage and the surrounding areas  to 
see if there was anything the policy  covered  was the cause. 
When this happened  it was clear the floor had dropped  in one area of the bedroom, but it 
wasnt unstable as would be expected  if there had been rot from water  damage.  However, 
when Mr and Mrs A put forward that it might have been water damage, that possibility was 
looked into. Moisture level readings  were  taken in the area of the damage  within  that room 
and the adjoining room  and cupboard  (where one of the possible leaks had been). The 
moisture readings were normal indicating there was no leak at that time. There  was also no 
visible sign of an escape of water (such  as staining), which  there would likely have been if 
the floor had been affected by a water leak in the area. 
Given the perils that the policy covered, escape of water is the only one that it seems  
plausible might have  caused the damage to Mr and Mrs As home.  In the absence  of 
evidence of any other cause of the damage, the loss adjuster concluded  there was no cover 
under the policy.  
No further evidence has been  provided  about the cause of the damage. I have seen nothing 
that indicates the problem  with Mr and Mrs As floor was caused by an insured peril.  So, and 
I know this will come as a disappointment to them,  I cant find that Aviva  was wrong to 
decline their claim. It has, however, said it will reconsider  the claim if evidence  is provided 
that shows the cause of damage and that that cause  is covered by the policy. I think  this is a 
reasonable position for it to take.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision 
before 9 July 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4830460