K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the advice he was given by CGFM LTD to transfer into a self-invested  
personal pension  (SIPP)  so as to invest in Carbon Credits. 
background
In 2012, Mr S was introduced to CGFM by a company called Carbon Advice Group. In its 
suitability letter, CGFM said Mr S only required advice as to the suitability of transferring his 
pension to a pension product that would allow investments in Carbon Credits.  He had 
specifically requested that the advice was limited to that one area.  
CGFM advised Mr S to transfer the benefits from his personal pension  plan into a SIPP  so 
that he could invest in Carbon Credits. It said he was ethically-minded and concerned about 
the environment.  CGFM  said it had been  established that Mr S had an adventurous attitude 
to risk and had indicated he had the capacity to lose 100% of the investment.  
Mr S complained to CGFM in June  2017. He said he was told by CGFM  that transferring to a 
SIPP would be beneficial, but he has lost money. He wasnt made aware of the risks 
involved. 
CGFM didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr S had approached CGFM for advice about 
transferring his pension with a view to investing  in Carbon Credits. This wouldnt have been  
possible through his existing  pension  plan. He had told CGFM  that the pension fund 
represented less than 10% of his overall wealth, and confirmed he was a high risk investor.
CGFM also said Mr S may have had an ulterior motive in wishing to transfer his pension. It 
has found out that clients such  as him had been offered a cash  payment by the business 
that had contacted him about  Carbon  Credits,  but he was told to withhold this information 
from his adviser. Had CGFM known about  this, it would  have declined to act for him.  
Mr S remained dissatisfied, and referred  his complaint to us. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  succeed. He noted that CGFM had limited the 
advice it would be giving to the investment vehicle  the SIPP. It said it would not be 
advising on investing in Carbon Credits.  But the adjudicator thought  that the process  
adopted by CGFM wasnt consistent with the regulators  expectations  about  how advice on 
transferring to a SIPP should be given. He also didnt think  CGFM had done enough to show 
it knew its customer. Mr S had told us he had no other investments in property or stocks 
and shares in 2012. He only held another pension plan, which  was frozen as hed not paid 
any contributions for a number of years.  
The adjudicator noted that Mr S was charged  a standard fixed  fee for a limited  advice 
process. But this didnt take away  from the fact he had approached CGFM for advice, and 
the advice had to be suitable  based on his circumstances. Mr S doesnt appear to have been  
a sophisticated  investor,  or have had any experience of complex investments such  as 
Carbon Credits. 
CGFM told us it didnt agree with the adjudicators findings for a number of reasons. It said 
the first part of the adjudicators letter highlighted the facts Mr S wanted CGFM to know to 
ensure that his pension was transferred so he could illegally access  his funds. The 
Ref: DRN42362722information he has now supplied to support his claim is what he wants  this service to know 
and proves he lied to CGFM about his situation.  Had CGFM been aware of the true position,  
it would  undoubtedly  have advised  him not to transfer. 
CGFM also said that the reason Mr Ss pension is now worthless is because he has 
allegedly been  defrauded by the stockbroking firm that sold the Carbon Credits to Mr S at a 
greatly inflated price, in which  CGFM  had no involvement. It is this firm that should be held 
responsible for Mr Ss loss. 
The matter  has now been passed to me for consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When initially responding to Mr Ss complaint,  CGFM said he had approached it for advice 
about transferring  his pension. But I dont think this is an entirely accurate depiction of what  
happened. Instead, as noted above,  Mr S was referred to CGFM by Carbon Advice Group.   
Its apparent that the idea of investing  in Carbon Credits was introduced  to Mr S by Carbon 
Advice Group. Mr S says he was cold-called  about the investment. But this company was 
not authorised  to advise on pensions or deal in investments. So in order to allow  Mr S to 
make the investment by transferring into a SIPP, it was necessary to engage the services  of 
a regulated firm. This was why Mr S was introduced  to CGFM.  
It also appears that CGFM had a process in place to deal with such referrals.  Its terms of 
business said CGFM could be engaged on one of two bases:
To provide advice  in matters contained  in his instructions, assessing his needs and 
taking account  of his financial objectives and risk tolerances.
Not providing any advice and either acting entirely on his instructions (execution-
only) or asking Mr S some questions to narrow the options  to enable  him to decide 
how to proceed.
The terms of business said that CGFMs letter of engagement would confirm  the basis  on 
which it would act for Mr S. Ive not seen a letter of engagement, but I have seen a fee 
agreement which Mr S signed on 23 December 2012. This stated that Mr S had been 
referred to CGFM by Carbon Advice Group.  It said CGFMs advice was limited to the 
suitability of transferring  his personal pension scheme to a pension scheme that accepts 
investments in Certified Emission  Reduction Certificates (Carbon Credits). 
The agreement also stated:
We will not be providing advice as to the suitability of any investment held within the 
pension scheme  and it is our understanding that you have done your own due diligence  and 
assessed the suitability of any investment arranged through Carbon Advice Group.  These 
are generally  accepted  as being high risk investments that are not regulated by the FSA, 
may be difficult to sell in the future and do not benefit from any protection from the FSCS in 
the event they may become worthless  in the future. 
Ref: DRN42362723The fee agreement  noted that CGFM  would  charge  a one-off fee of £950 to arrange  the 
SIPP and manage  the transfer process. 
So it seems  from the above that CGFM had a process in place  in which  it would accept a 
referral from Carbon Advice Group, and would then source a SIPP  provider which would  
accept investments in Carbon Credits, but wouldnt give any advice  about  the investment  
itself. But I dont think it was open to CGFM to limit its obligations to Mr S in this way.  
In saying this, Im mindful that the FCA has issued  alerts  in respect of advising on pension  
transfers with a view to investing pension monies into unregulated products through a SIPP.  
One was published on 18 January 2013  and a further one on 28 April 2014.  These  alerts  
didnt make any changes  to the regulations. They simply re-stated the principles that already 
applied, and which were  in place in 2013 when the advice  was given.
The regulator made its position clear  when it said the following in the alert issued in 2013:
It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving  customers  retirement  savings to self-invested personal 
pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid unregulated 
investments (some which may be in Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes). 
Examples of these  unregulated investments are diamonds, overseas property 
developments, store pods, forestry and film schemes, among other non-mainstream 
propositions.
Financial advisers using this advice  model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.  The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires  consideration of the other  investments held by the customer  or, when 
advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other  wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should be 
particularly clear to financial advisers  that, where a customer  seeks  advice on a pension 
transfer in implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer  
must take account  of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will 
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas 
property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment 
must form part of the advice about whether the customer should  transfer  into the SIPP.  If, 
taking into account  the individual circumstances  of the customer, the original pension  
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable.
This alert was in fact published  before CGFM issued its suitability report to Mr S on 27 
February 2013. So I think it had the opportunity of taking the FSAs views  into account and 
altering its approach to how it was advising Mr S. But it didnt do so. 
Ref: DRN42362724I dont think it was possible for CGFM to give advice about the suitability of a SIPP without  
also considering  how Mr S planned  to invest.  Its clear CGFM  knew about Mr Ss intention to 
invest in Carbon Credits  from the outset. 
I have therefore  considered  if the investment was suitable for Mr S. I think  the Conduct  of 
Business rules (COBS) set out by the regulator in its Handbook are relevant here.
COBS 9 applies to a firm which  makes a personal  recommendation  in relation to 
a designated investment. 
COBS 9.2.1R says:
(1) A firm must take reasonable  steps  to ensure that a personal recommendation, or a 
decision to trade, is suitable  for its client.
(2)When making the personal recommendation or managing his investments, the firm must 
obtain the necessary information  regarding the clients:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific  type of 
designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation,  or take the decision, which is suitable 
for him.
COBS 19.2.2R says: 
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about  him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving 
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific 
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially  to bear any related  investment risks consistent  with his 
investment objectives;  and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience  and knowledge in order to understand the 
risks involved in the transaction or in the management  of his portfolio.
CGFM appears  to have based  its understanding of Mr Ss circumstances on a document 
called a client enquiry  form. This seems to have been completed by Mr S before the 
introduction to CGFM. But this document contained  only limited  and somewhat  cursory 
information about Mr S. While it included his occupation as a self-employed  builder and that 
he had no dependants, it contained virtually no details of his financial circumstances such as 
his income, outgoings  or assets. It only included  details  of a personal  pension with a current  
value of £26,777.  
I understand that although there was no meeting between  the adviser and Mr S, there  was a 
telephone conversation.  Ive not seen any notes  or other record  of what was said, but it 
seems there was some discussion about Mr Ss views on investing. There is reference  to 
Ref: DRN42362725this in the suitability report. But it doesnt appear any more detailed questions  were asked 
about his circumstances. 
On the whole, I dont  think  CGFM fulfilled its requirement under COBS  19.2.2R to obtain 
sufficient information  about Mr S. 
CGFM has told us it was entitled  to rely on the information Mr S provided. But Ive not seen 
evidence he was deliberately withholding  or concealing information. On the contrary, it 
seems Mr S was willing to provide whatever information requested  from him. Its simply the 
case that CGFM  didnt  make adequate enquires.  
Mr S did provide our adjudicator with further  details of his circumstances at the time of the 
advice. He said he didnt  have any investments in stocks and shares or property. He had 
another pension  plan that was frozen  as hed not paid contributions for a few years.  
I note CGFM has sought to cast doubt on the information Mr S has recently provided. But I 
have no reason to believe  this is incorrect. Clearly,  CGFM has no evidence to contradict 
what he has told us. 
CGFM says that had it been aware  of the true nature of Mr Ss situation,  it would have 
advised him not to transfer.  But it was open  to CGFM  at the time to obtain these details  it 
failed to do so. 
From the information available, Mr S doesnt  appear  to have been a sophisticated investor, 
but rather seems to have  had fairly  limited investment experience. I think  this is something 
that should have been apparent to CGFM. He would therefore not seem to be the type of 
customer who normally would be looking to invest in high risk areas such  as Carbon Credits. 
I note Mr S completed a questionnaire in relation to the risk he was prepared to take. This 
was entitled Risk Assessment Questionnaire Carbon  Credit  Investments, and so seems to 
have been aimed  towards this type of investment. Mr Ss answers to the questions indicate 
he was prepared to take a high degree of risk with this investment, although he describes his 
overall attitude to risk as medium. 
In response to a question  asking what effect it would have if the investment became  
worthless, Mr S has answered  that he has other plans  in place. And while  he wouldnt be 
happy, at least  he was trying to help the environment. 
But it seems  that Mr S had only limited  pension provision in place at the time, and the plan 
which was being  considered for this investment made up a reasonable proportion of that. 
Further, it would be fairly unusual for an individual to be willing  to see a total loss of their 
money  not least where this was intended  for their retirement. Its also not clear what 
benefit to the environment  would  come from a failed investment.
In the circumstances, I think CGFM should  have questioned  Mr S more  closely about his 
responses to the questionnaire. I think this would  have shown that he didnt have the 
capacity for large  falls in his pension fund,  let alone a total loss. 
Further, the details  CGFM  obtained  about Mr Ss current pension  plan would have shown 
that it was invested  in a with-profits fund. This would generally be considered as a cautious 
approach to investing. So CGFM should  have appreciated that investing  in Carbon Credits 
Ref: DRN42362726would drastically  increase  the level of risk he was taking with his pension. CGFM didnt 
consider why Mr S felt he should do this, or if he fully understood the implications. 
Mr S may well have been influenced in wanting  to invest in Carbon Credits by what  he was 
told by Carbon Advice Group. But CGFM would have known that this business  wasnt  
authorised to give financial advice, and that it may not have given Mr S a balanced view of 
the nature  of the investment it was promoting.  I therefore dont think it was fair for CGFM to 
rely on what Mr S had been told by a third party  as evidence he fully understood the risks his 
pension would be exposed to by investing in Carbon Credits. 
I appreciate that the suitability report did include a number of references to the risks involved 
in Carbon Credits.  But it also recommended that Mr S transfer into a SIPP.  
Overall, I think that if CGFM had fulfilled its requirements under COBS  set out above, it 
would have appreciated that transferring into a SIPP so as to invest  in Carbon Credits wasnt  
suitable for Mr S. And it should have advised  him accordingly. On the whole, I think  its likely 
he would  have accepted the advice he received. 
I note CGFM has suggested that Mr S received some form of payment for investing  in 
Carbon Credits. But it hasnt provided any evidence to support this, and Mr S has denied any 
ulterior motive  in making the investment.  
Further, CGFM  says Mr Ss loss has been  caused by the Carbon Credits being  sold to him 
at an inflated price. It also says the investment has been subject to fraudulent activity by 
some parties involved in it. 
Its not clear to me whether either  of those points are correct. But in any event, Mr S should  
not have been in the position  where his capital was exposed to any of the risks posed by 
investing in Carbon Credit. For the reasons Ive explained, I think CGFM  is responsible for 
the loss hes suffered.  If CGFM consider there are other parties who have contributed to his 
loss, it is open  to CGFM to pursue these businesses separately. This doesnt detract from its 
obligation to compensate Mr S fully for his loss. 
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably  
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr S would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr S's circumstances and objectives when he invested.  
what should  CGFM do?
To compensate Mr S fairly,  CGFM must:
Compare the performance of Mr S's investment  with that of the benchmark  shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
CGFM should add interest as set out below. 
Ref: DRN42362727If there is a loss, CGFM should  pay into Mr S's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If CGFM is unable to pay the total amount into Mr S's pension plan, it should  pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr S's actual or expected  
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would  
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mr S £250 for the trouble and upset he's been caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If CGFM  deducts  income  tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr S how much has been taken  off. CGFM should give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. CGFM should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  provider. This amount 
should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If CGFM is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
Ref: DRN42362728for the purpose  of calculation. CGFM may require that Mr S provides an undertaking to pay 
CGFM any amount he may receive  from the investment  in the future.  That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension  
plan. CGFM will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if CGFM totals all those payments and deducts that figure  at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr S wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index 
is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given 
Mr S's circumstances and risk attitude.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that CGFM LTD should pay the amount calculated  as 
set out above.
CGFM LTD should provide details of its calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4236272