K820x#14Complaint
The trustees of a whole of life protection policy have complained that Zurich Assurance Ltd 
wont send separate,  regular  correspondence to one of the trustees ex-wife regarding  the 
policy.
Background
The trustees of the policy are Mr P (1), Mrs T and Mr P (2). They are all party to the 
complaint. The policy was a joint whole of life policy between Mr P (1) and Mrs T, when they 
were married. However, Mr P (1) is the main driver of the complaint so I will refer only to him 
throughout this decision  and just as Mr P.
Mr P and his wife took out the whole of life policy, set up on a joint life second  death basis. 
When they divorced  in 1998 the policy was kept in trust with the trustees as above. The 
policy forms part of their divorce settlement.
Mr P has said that for many years he has received information about the policy  from Zurich  
but Zurich has not sent this to his ex-wife as well. Mr P says hes asked Zurich on a number 
of occasions to also send policy information to Mrs T as well as him over the years, but 
Zurich has never automatically done this. Mr P says Zurichs systems should be changed so 
the policy information is sent to her automatically at the same  time it is sent to him.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt unable  to uphold  it. She 
was of the view that under  the terms and conditions of the trust all Zurich had to do was 
provide any regular policy information  to one of the trustees which is what it had been  doing 
for a number of years. She was also satisfied that Zurich confirmed any significant  changes 
to the policy  would be communicated to all the trustees.
While she understood  Mr Ps frustrations she wasnt able to direct Zurich to change its 
systems or business  practices providing  it was acting within  its requirements,  which  it was.
Mr P didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view that Zurich should  change 
its processes to accommodate his requests.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I cant  uphold the 
complaint.
I fully appreciate Mr Ps frustrations and I agree it seems to be a simple  task for Zurich to just 
change its systems. However,  if Zurich  has said that isnt the case  then this Service needs to 
take this at face value. Also, as this Service isnt the regulator it isnt within  our remit to direct 
any business to change their business practices or procedures.
Only if an error has occurred can this service  ask a business to change or rectify something.  
In this case this hasnt happened.
Ref: DRN46743252The only obligation on Zurich, under the terms and conditions of the trust is to keep one of 
the trustees  informed of the information  relating  to the policy. This it has done and its choice 
to inform the first named  trustee on the trust (Mr P) seems reasonable.
Zurich has also confirmed  that if any significant changes to the policy are required to take 
place that all trustees are informed. And to me this seems reasonable.
Also its worth bearing in mind that while its not ideal  that Mr P has had to speak to Zurich 
each time he has received correspondence  to ask Zurich  to send it to his ex-wife, Zurich has 
always complied with his request.  Of course this happening automatically would be better, 
but as this isnt possible  I am satisfied that Zurich is doing this at least.
I am also pleased to see that Zurich has put a note on its system to ensure that any manual 
correspondence needs to be sent to his ex-wife too. This will hopefully ensure that any 
manual letters will be sent to Mrs T as well without the need for Mr P calling Zurich to 
request this happens.
I appreciate Mr Ps frustrations but Zurich is bound by what it can and cant do. And if it is 
unable to change  its systems to accommodate Mr Ps request then I cant ask it to do 
anything further.  Given the constraints Zurich has to accommodate Mr P I think it has done 
all it can do and this Service doesnt have the powers to compel it to do anything  else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4674325