K820x#14Complaint
Mr N is a director of a limited company, S. He complains on the companys behalf  that 
Commercial First Business Limited (CFB) over charged it on its commercial  mortgage 
causing an overpayment  of around £20,000.    
Background
S had a repayment  mortgage with CFB on a variable rate of the London Interbank Offered 
Rate (LIBOR)  plus 4.25% over a 30-year term. From  May 2008 onwards S owed various 
amounts of arrears on its mortgage account due to missed payments and additional interest 
and associated fees. The account then remained  in arrears from August  2017 until the date 
the mortgage was repaid. 
In December 2018, Mr N decided to clear Ss mortgage with CFB. However, when Mr N 
received the redemption statement,  he felt that the outstanding balance was around £20,000 
too much. And once the mortgage had been repaid, he raised  a complaint with CFB, and 
asked this service to look in-to his complaint.
CFB didnt uphold the complaint. They said the mortgage was on a repayment  basis so less 
capital had been paid off at the start of the mortgage term than interest.  And that since early  
2008, the mortgage account had been  in arrears at various points which meant that different 
types of charges had been  added  to the account. This caused  the outstanding balance  on 
the account not to reduce  as expected. They also said they were  satisfied the interest rates 
had been applied to the account correctly and that the redemption statement Mr N had 
received was correct.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He said that although S had 
borrowed £171,000  and repaid £46,800 this didnt  mean the outstanding balance would be 
£124,000. He said that the mortgage was on a repayment basis  so S would have repaid 
more interest at the start of the mortgage  and less capital. He also said that where S had 
been in arrears on the mortgage, extra interest  and charges had also been applied.  And that 
hed looked at the account statements and he found nothing  to indicate that the charges and 
interest rate changes  had been applied  incorrectly.  
Mr N didnt agree. He felt that after six years of a 30-year  term, the monthly repayments 
should repay more  capital  so the mortgage  could be repaid by the end of the term. He also 
felt CFBs calculations werent consistent and some of the fees shouldnt have been applied.  
So, the case has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it for broadly the same  reasons  as the investigator.  
As the investigator  mentioned  previously,  Mr Ns complaint is about a commercial  mortgage 
which isnt a regulated product. CFB was only covered by our scheme  for this type of loan 
between 1 April 2014 and 16 October  2015.  So, it means I can only look at CFBs actions 
and how the interest  and payments were  applied to the capital during this time. 
Ref: DRN49985042Mr N feels the redemption  statement balance was around £20,000 more  than it should  have 
been. We dont  offer an auditing service, but Ive looked at the mortgage  statements and Im 
not persuaded thats the case. I think its worth noting that repayment mortgages are 
composed of part capital and part interest and the value of these isnt static.  I recognise that 
Mr N based his initial calculation on the £307  capital repayment amount shown on the claim 
for possession document in May 2016. However,  the claim document says this was the 
current terms of repayment and that time,  and this wasnt  a consistent amount during the 12 
years that S held the mortgage with CFB. And looking at the mortgage  statements, Ive seen 
the amount that was taken off the capital each  time a full monthly  payment was made  started 
at around £120  per month, slowly increasing  in value  as the mortgage term decreased.  So, 
its not as simple as multiplying the monthly capital deduction at that specific  point in time by 
the number of months that S held the mortgage.  
I also dont think the amount  Mr N feels S is owed takes in-to account the fees and additional  
interest which were added to the outstanding capital when S didnt make its contractual 
monthly payments.  Ive reviewed CFBs explanation and the tariff of fees and charges which 
could potentially have  been applied under the terms and conditions. Ive also looked at the 
transaction history, and I havent seen any evidence that the fees and charges werent 
applied in line with the tariffs which S had been  provided with each year. So, it seems likely  
the amount CFB says was outstanding on the redemption figure for S was correct. 
Mr N feels CFB didnt provide him with a running  capital balance  which  they should have. 
But Ive reviewed the quarterly statements which CFB sent to Mr N, and Ive seen that it 
does show the outstanding capital  balance on a monthly basis. It also shows the balance  
increasing when  interest  or charges were applied, and then decreasing  by the amount of the 
capital which  has been repaid. I recognise  this makes it more  difficult for Mr N to calculate  
the exact amount each month that was repaid.  However, Ive also seen that the mortgage  
statements Mr N received  clearly  show the credits  that were  received to the account and any 
subsequent debits. As I mentioned above, I can only look at the transactions  on the 
mortgage account for a limited time period. And I havent seen anything that indicates the 
fees, charges  and interest had been  applied incorrectly. 
Looking at the original mortgage  offer and related terms and conditions, I can see it was 
accepted on a variable interest rate of LIBOR plus 4.25%, meaning that the repayment 
amounts will fluctuate in-line with the changing rates. Ive looked at the mortgage statements 
and the breakdown of interest  rates provided by CFB and Im satisfied they show  the interest 
rates that were applicable at any given  time.  
I recognise Mr Ns concerns, and Id like to reassure him that Ive carefully read all the 
information hes provided. I understand why Mr N feels  strongly about what  happened and I 
realise this wont be the outcome he was hoping  for, but I think  CFB have acted  fairly  and 
reasonably towards  him. So, I wont be asking them to do anything  more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN49985043Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4998504