K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund disputed transactions  made 
on his credit card and debit card.
background
Mr K says that fraudulent transactions of over £2,500 were  made  from his HSBC current  
account and transactions of nearly  £3,000  were  made from his HSBC credit card  all 
transactions happened on 16 April 2018. 
The last time Mr K used  his debit card was on 15 April 2018. He withdrew  £240  from a cash 
machine around  8pm while  at a casino. Mr K says that he doesnt really  use his credit card, 
and the last time he had used it was to take advantage of a balance transfer offer. 
Mr K says he stores both HSBC cards in his wallet, and that the last time he saw them  was 
after he took cash out at the machine and put his card back  into his wallet. He thinks his 
cards were  either; taken  after he used  the cash machine, or accidentally dropped on the 
ground at some point.  Mr K explains that he didnt notice his cards were  missing until         
16 April 2018, which was when he checked  his account and noticed his available balance  
didnt look right. On looking  for his cards, he noticed  that they were missing. 
HSBC investigated  and decided not to refund the disputed withdrawals. It said there was no 
evidence of fraudulent activity. It thought  Mr K had authorised the withdrawals or made them 
himself because Mr Ks genuine  card and PIN were used for all the transactions,  and they 
couldnt see how Mr Ks PIN was compromised  or obtained  by a third party.
As Mr K didnt agree  with HSBCs decision, he asked us to investigate. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she felt 
unable to conclude  that the withdrawals had been  made fraudulently and was persuaded 
they were most likely made and authorised by Mr K. 
Mr K responded raising several points, including: 
how can we say what would be the mindset of a fraudster 
weve ignored that HSBCs systems  didnt  flag the transactions as suspicious, or why 
transactions were  allowed that exceeded  the available  funds  in his account
he reported it to the police  and he doesnt  think this wouldve happened  if he 
authorised the transactions. And we have  evidence from his employer  that he was at 
work at the time of the transactions
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And where there is a dispute  about what  
happened, and the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I reached my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other  words,  on what I consider is most likely  to have happened 
in light of the available evidence.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously  set out and for much the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN45177952Generally, HSBC can hold Mr K liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence  suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made  or authorised them  himself. 
Im persuaded from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Ks genuine  cards  were used to 
make the disputed transactions, there is a mixture of ATM, retail purchases and some 
contactless payments.  Im also persuaded that the genuine PIN was needed to make the 
majority of the disputed  transactions as well. For all ATM transactions  in the UK the PIN is 
required and there are ATM transactions  on both cards. But the regulations relevant to this 
case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable HSBC to hold him liable. So, I also need 
to think about  whether  the evidence suggests  that its more  likely than not that Mr K 
consented to the withdrawals  being made.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for HSBC to conclude  that Mr K 
authorised the transactions and Ill explain why.
The disputed withdrawals  were made  using Mr Ks genuine card and PIN, but theres no 
convincing explanation for how a third party could have obtained his card and known Mr Ks 
PIN. And the evidence provided  by HSBC shows that the correct PIN was used for the first 
disputed transaction.
Mr K has suggested that someone observed  him entering his PIN the previous evening      
15 April when he used a cash machine at 8pm while at a casino. But Mr K told us that he left 
the casino around  2 hours later and went home.  The first disputed transaction didnt  happen 
until 08:50 on 16 April,  which  is nearly  12 hours after Mr K entered his PIN. Its unlikely that 
someone wouldve  seen  Mr K enter his PIN, stolen his card and then waited  12 hours to use 
it. Most fraudsters will use a card as soon as possible  due to the risk of the missing card 
being noticed and cancelled by the account owner. 
Also, Mr K said his cards were in his wallet, meaning that if someone had observed Mr K 
entering his PIN at the casino,  they wouldve needed to find an opportunity  to not only take 
Mr Ks wallet  without  him noticing,  but then removed  the cards and returned the wallet to     
Mr K  again  without  him noticing. This seems highly unlikely. Mr K has suggested that 
perhaps his card was dropped after he used it at the casino, but he only used  his debit card 
at the casino. So even if he dropped his debit card and this was picked up by someone, that 
doesnt explain or account for how someone  obtained his credit card, which  was in his 
wallet. And as Ive already explained it doesnt seem likely  that someone  would  take two 
cards from his wallet, leave other  items in there and then return his wallet   all without him 
noticing, or it happening  without his authority.
Ive also considered whether Mr Ks card couldve  been taken by someone  known to him, 
either from his home which he shares  with lodgers or from his place  work.  But this doesnt 
explain how someone  at either location wouldve known Mr Ks PIN. Mr K has told us that he 
doesnt store  his PIN anywhere, so I cant see how they wouldve become aware of his PIN 
in order to complete  the transactions. This also applies if Mr K dropped his cards or lost 
them, as the PIN wasnt written down or with the cards its highly unlikely that someone 
couldve guessed the PIN correctly  especially  on the first attempt to use the card. 
Ref: DRN45177953Its also unusual that there was no balance enquiry made with either of Mr Ks cards prior to 
them being  used. The only balance  enquiry  was completed in a cash machine after 5pm on 
16 April, which was after most of the transactions had taken place. Id usually expect to see 
a fraudster doing a balance enquiry to find out how much money was available on the cards,  
so they could remove the maximum funds possible in the shortest time possible.
other considerations
In response to our investigators opinion, Mr K asked  why transactions  were  allowed that 
exceeded the available funds in his account. As the investigator explained some companies 
only authorise a small initial amount, and then debit the full transaction amount later. But 
once an authorisation is placed  on an account its a guaranteed form of payment, which 
means when the full amount is debited  later it may take an account outside of its arranged 
limit or take it into overdraft. 
Mr K also said that reporting it to the police suggests he didnt authorise  the transactions. 
And we have evidence from his employer that he was at work at the time the transactions 
occurred. But reporting the fraud isnt enough  to persuade me that someone else has taken 
Mr Ks card and PIN without his permission. And while Mr K mayve  been at work  while  the 
transactions took place, that doesnt prevent Mr K from giving his card and PIN to someone 
and consenting  to them completing the transactions.
I appreciate that Mr K is going  to be disappointed  with the answer  Ive reached.  But Id like to 
reassure him that I have  seen and reviewed all the emails  hes sent our service including 
those setting out why he disagreed with the investigators opinion.  I know  Mr K raised 
several points, which  havent  all been individually addressed in this decision. But I have 
taken them all into account  and considered  everything hes told us. Ultimately,  I need to 
reach a decision  as to whether Im persuaded that someone without Mr Ks permission 
accessed his card and his PIN in order to complete  these  transactions  and Im not 
persuaded they have. 
Mr K has raised a concern that HSBCs  systems didnt flag the transactions as suspicious.  
But as Im persuaded that Mr K authorised  these  transactions, whether or not they were 
flagged by HSBCs system wouldnt change the outcome  on this case. 
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr K authorised  the disputed  
withdrawals. It follows  that HSBC is entitled  to hold him liable for them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4517795