K821x#15complaint
Mr F says MYJAR Limited (MYJAR) irresponsibly lent to him. 
background
This complaint is about four instalment loans MYJAR provided to Mr F between  December 
2017 and May 2018. Mr Fs borrowing history based  on what  MYJAR provided is as follows:
LoanDate  
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest  
Repayment
1 13/12/2017 17/12/2017 3 £100.00 £50.63
2 24/12/2017 23/01/2018 12 £1,125.00 £166.57
3 02/02/2018 15/05/2018 3 £400.00 £213.35
4 29/05/2018 02/07/2018 6 £1,150.00 £343.34
Mr F has said MYJAR didnt complete affordability checks  for each  new loan. MYJAR has 
said appropriate checks were conducted for each loan. 
Our adjudicator explained MYJAR was not wrong  to give loans 1 to 3. But our adjudicator 
partially upheld  Mr Fs complaint and thought loan 4 shouldnt have been given. MYJAR 
disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr F 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers  income  (reflecting that it could be more  difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to 
meet a higher repayment  from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN44627202There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F hasnt  disputed  our adjudicators findings about loans 1 to 3 so I wont be considering  
these loans any further because they are no longer in dispute.  
By the time Mr F asked for loan 4, MYJAR should  have realised that Mr F was having 
problems managing money. This was now Mr Fs fourth loan in five months with no gaps in 
borrowing. The amount  Mr F was asking to borrow  had also increased significantly  
specifically eleven  times more  from the amount borrowed for loan 1. The monthly  
repayments had also increased. So I think MYJAR should have realised that there was a 
significant risk that Mr F would be unable to sustainably repay loan 4. So I think  it was wrong 
to have approved  this.
It seems  Mr F was not using the loans as MYJAR intended. Mr F ran the loan 1 for a few 
days, loan 2 was a was a 12 month loan which ran for one month.  And although loan 3 ran 
to term, I think  MYJAR should  have  been  on notice that Mr F wasnt  using  the loans as it had 
intended.
So taking everything in to consideration, I dont think  MYJAR should have agreed to give 
loan 4 to Mr F. MYJAR needs to pay him some compensation.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund all interest  and charges Mr F paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and 
charges from the date they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative  information about  loan 4 from Mr Fs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN44627203my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Fs complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4462720