K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that esure Insurance Limited accepted liability  under his motor insurance 
policy following an accident.  He wants the claim removed from his record  and his No Claims 
Discount (NCD) restored. 
background
Mr M was involved in a car accident when he turned right and he was hit by an oncoming 
car. Mr M said this car was overtaking  another  that had flashed  him to make the turn. esure  
wrote to another driver  who Mr M said witnessed the accident but it had no response. The 
driver who hit Mr M didnt mention overtaking  anyone, just that Mr M had crossed  his path. 
esure had no evidence of a car flashing  Mr M. It didnt think it could  defend the claim, so it 
accepted liability  on Mr Ms behalf.  Mr M thought a police report  and photographs and 
information about traffic calming measures would  show he wasnt at fault.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  esure 
had reasonably considered the evidence available.  She thought it had tried to contact  the 
witness. She didnt think a police report or photographs would add further  evidence  as the 
police attended  after the accident. She thought esure had reasonably settled the claim on a 
without prejudice  basis so it could be reconsidered if a witness  did come forward.
Mr M replied that the cars positions would show his innocence. He thought esure should 
have contacted the witness sooner. He thought  the police report and photographs should  
have been obtained and considered. He also thought traffic calming measures at the site 
should be considered. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr M feels strongly that he wasnt  at fault for the accident. Mr M said 
he was initially told by esure that he wasnt to blame but five months later esure said it had 
accepted liability  for the accident.  I can understand that this must have been frustrating. But I 
dont think its unusual  for a claim to be disputed by another insurer  some time after an 
accident. In the interim,  I can see that esure kept Mr M reasonably updated with the 
progress of the claim and it told him it was waiting to hear about liability.
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide  who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints  of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
esure is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr M to take over,  defend, 
or settle  a claim as it sees  fit. Mr M has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement  
of his claim, whether  he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. 
That said,  we expect  an insurer  to reasonably  investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision.  
Ref: DRN44267122I can see that esure had accounts of what happened from Mr M and the driver who hit his 
car. These conflicted  and so esure looked  for independent evidence  to confirm Mr Ms 
version of events.
There was no CCTV evidence available.  The car which Mr M said flashed  him wasnt  
identified. Mr M provided witness details for the car behind the one which  hit his. esure tried 
to contact him three times without  success. So there was no independent witness evidence  
for esure to consider.
The police attended after the accident and esure  thought their report  wouldnt provide 
evidence of what had happened.  I can understand that Mr M disagrees,  but I dont think the 
police report and photographs would add further evidence  of what  caused  the accident.  It 
wouldnt identify who was responsible. esure already had images of the road layout to 
consider. So I dont think information  from the local authority would provide specific  evidence  
about the accidents cause. 
I can see that esure considered the evidence  available  and thought  it wouldnt be able to 
defend the matter if it went to court. It didnt have evidence that the other  driver  was 
overtaking at the time. It thought Mr M would be held at fault for turning into the path of 
oncoming traffic. 
So I think esure reasonably investigated the claim and considered  the evidence  available 
before accepting liability. I think its entitled to do this by the policy terms and conditions. So I 
cant say its done  anything wrong  or require it to change its decision. esure paid the claim 
without prejudice  so it can further  consider  the matter if the witness does come forward. I 
think this was reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4426712