K821x#15Complaint
Mrs P complains about the service she received from Chapel House Motor Co Ltd (Chapel 
House) when she acquired a new car with a fixed sum loan agreement in November 2018.
What happened
In November 2018, Mrs P took out a fixed sum loan agreement for just over £12,000 to buy 
a new car. She says she chose to buy the car through Chapel House because shed 
received excellent  customer care from it when she bought her previous car two years  earlier.  
Mrs P told us:
her husband, Mr P, also ordered  a new car at the same time but when he came to 
collect it, he experienced problems in the dealership  with the paperwork and the 
finance, and he had to make  a second journey the following  day to collect his car;
she agreed to attend the dealership at 11:00am on 28 November,  and shed been 
reassured she wouldnt experience the same problems as Mr P when  hed collected  
his car earlier that same week;
she signed the finance paperwork and was given the car keys so she could look at 
her new car with Mr P and her daughter and at the same time fit the child seat;
she was advised  that there was an error with the finance paperwork; it would need to 
be amended and she was asked to sign it again; but 90 minutes after arriving at the 
dealership the problems with the finance  agreement hadnt been  resolved;
she explained to Chapel  House that she needed  to leave by 1:30pm to do the school 
run and was assured  that everything  would be resolved by then;
at 2:00pm she left in her old car having spent three hours  in the showroom and the 
problems still hadnt been resolved;
it was left to her to follow things  up with Chapel House; it didnt contact her  and she 
eventually collected her new car two days later. This meant she couldnt use a 
vehicle for 24 hours as the insurance  on her old car had expired.
Mrs P says Chapel  Houses own regulations  state she shouldve  been asked to finalise the 
paperwork and sign the finance agreement five working days  before  she collected the car. 
And because Chapel  House didnt do what it shouldve done,  this whole experience was 
stressful and upsetting and it ruined the excitement she shouldve  felt when collecting a new 
car.
Mrs P also told us that Chapel House didnt send  her copy of the finance agreement to her at 
her home address; instead  it sent the paperwork along with other  personal information  to her 
employers address where  it was opened in error  by a fellow employee.
Chapel House upheld  this complaint.  In its final response it apologised for what had 
happened and it offered  both Mrs P and Mr P a free first service  on their cars. It said it had 
made mistakes with the finance agreement paperwork and this had caused delays when it 
had to amend  the documentation,  have it signed  again by Mrs P and then wait while it was 
re-submitted and approved.
Chapel House also apologised for sending the finance agreement to Mrs P at her employers 
address. It explained that it had input the correct building number and postcode   which  
should have ensured successful delivery  but it acknowledged it had wrongly added her 
employers street name to Mrs Ps address details.
Ref: DRN45527092Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he thought it should be upheld. He 
explained which aspects  of Mrs Ps complaint this Service  could look at and which it could  
not. He said Chapel  House had caused  Mrs P significant distress and inconvenience  shed 
waited hours  in the dealership and had to return two days  later to complete the transaction, a 
round trip of more than 80 minutes on each occasion. And this was after shed contacted  it to 
ensure her experience was nothing like that of Mr Ps.
He went on to explain that although  he recognised Chapel House had conducted an 
investigation into how letters are sorted  and delivered in this country, it was Chapel Houses 
sole responsibility for ensuring that the paperwork was correctly addressed.
Our investigator said he didnt think Chapel House had done enough to recognise the errors 
it had made,  and the loss of enjoyment Mrs P had suffered when collecting her new car. So, 
he asked Chapel House  to pay Mrs P £150  in addition to its offer of a free service  on the two 
cars.
Chapel House disagreed so the complaint  comes to me to decide. It says the issues  were 
not of its making;  there were extenuating circumstances in respect of the vehicle finance. 
And as the postcode and building number  on its correspondence were  correct, it believes the 
mis-posting issue rests  with the postal service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I hope that Mrs P wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint  in the way 
that I have.  Ours is an informal dispute resolution  service, and Ive concentrated on what  
I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that.
Mrs P should note, however, that although  I may not address  each  individual point that shes  
raised, I have given careful consideration to all of her submissions before arriving at my 
decision. Having  done so I have  to tell Mrs P and Chapel House that I think  the investigator 
has reached the right outcome here. And I think  he set out the position clearly  in his view,  so 
theres very little I can usefully add to what hes already said.
Theres no doubt in my mind that the service  Chapel House gave  Mrs P has been poor; 
Chapel House itself acknowledges  she didnt  receive the service she shouldve done,  and it 
recognises that it made mistakes. But I dont think its recognised the significant  level of 
distress and inconvenience its poor service caused Mrs P. She had to make two visits to 
collect her new car; journeys that she says were 40 minutes each way; she was left car-less 
for 24 hours because she couldnt take delivery of her new car and the insurance on her old 
car had lapsed  which  caused her problems as she needed to ferry her children around. And 
although I cant put a value on it, I have  to acknowledge the effect  all this had on Mrs P when 
she shouldve felt only excitement with the arrival of a new car.
Ref: DRN45527093Putting things  right
Chapel House has already apologised for what happened and its offered Mrs P and Mr P a 
free first service to manufacturers  specifications  on both their cars.  And it said presenting  a 
copy of its final response  letter, dated  18 March 2019, when  arranging  the service will 
ensure that it is completed for free.
In view of what Ive read in considering this complaint, Im disappointed that Chapel House 
didnt agree to our investigators suggestion  that it pay £150 to Mrs P. Im now going to direct  
it to pay Mrs P the same £150 as a fair way to settle  this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Chapel House Motor Co Ltd to pay 
£150 to Mrs P to settle this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2021.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4552709