K820x#14Complaint
Mr E and Mrs O are unhappy with the settlement  offer Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company
Limited (LV) provided  to them for their damaged contents, following a claim they made  
under their home insurance  policy. And, they feel LV has handled their claim poorly.
Background
In October 2017 Mr E and Mrs O discovered a leak at their property. This was caused by 
water escaping from perished plumbing under  the bath in their ground floor bathroom. So, 
they contacted  LV to make a claim  for water damage to their home and for the contents 
within this.
LV attended  the property and accepted the claim.  It provided a cash settlement for the 
buildings element of the claim, so that Mr E and Mrs O could complete reinstatement  work  to 
their home to put the water damage right.  Mr E and Mrs O were  satisfied  with this. But, they 
raised concerns  about the way the contents element of their claim has been handled.
Mr E and Mrs O have said the settlement amount  provided to them for the contents items 
damaged by the escape of water is incorrect. So far, Mr E and Mrs O have been  provided 
with a settlement  amount of £1,440 for their contents. But, they said this isnt enough to 
cover all of the items  that were  damaged.  Mr E and Mrs O said that when LVs contractors 
came to visit the property they made a list of damaged content items that were  beyond 
economical repair. But, they noted this list didnt  include a large  amount of the items that 
were actually damaged.  So, they felt the settlement amount provided to them should be 
increased, to take into account the additional  damaged contents.
LV didnt agree  and felt the settlement offer it had provided for the content items was fair. It 
said when it initially visited Mr E and Mrs Os property it reviewed some damaged contents, 
made a list of these, and then sent this list to Mr E and Mrs O to price up. It noted  when it 
received this list back it provided the settlement for those items, based on the prices
Mr E and Mrs O gave for them. It said that during its visits to the property  it wasnt  told of any 
additional contents items that were damaged.
LV said that it was later told of further  damaged items. These  items  included kitchen utensils, 
toys and wall hangings which had already  been  disposed of by Mr E and Mrs O. So, it said it 
couldnt provide  a settlement for these items  because it hadnt seen evidence  they were  
water damaged or beyond economical repair. LV also explained that following  this more 
contents items were  added to the claim in March 2018. It said this additional list included  a 
large amount of items, and this added  up to a total of £30,003.
LV noted  it wasnt able to increase its settlement for the contents element of the claim. It said 
these items  hadnt  been mentioned to it before, and it hadnt  had the opportunity to validate 
these items  either. So, LV said its settlement of £1,440  for the damaged  contents was fair.
Mr E and Mrs O have also raised  concerns about some of their items  a settee and some  
bunk beds, that were moved from their home to the property they were staying in whilst the 
damage to the building was repaired. They  said LVs contractors  had moved these for them, 
and they had been damaged in transit. LV didnt agree there  was proof  these items were  
damaged by its contractors. So, it didnt offer any payment for this.
Ref: DRN48042252Because Mr E and Mrs O felt LVs position on the matter was unfair, and that their claim had 
been subject to lengthy delays, they referred their complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator reviewed  this complaint  and didnt think  it should be upheld.  She didnt think  
LV had acted  unfairly in its handling of the claim.  Or for declining  to replace the settee and 
bunk beds. She said she found it unusual the additional items werent mentioned  earlier on 
in the claim. And she didnt think it was usual  for the settee and bunk beds to be damaged  in 
transit. Our investigator  didnt think  LV had handled the claim poorly,  and so didnt 
recommend that it do anything further.
Mr E and Mrs O didnt agree. They said they were  concerned about the investigations 
completed on their claim between November 2017  and January  2018. And they explained 
that when LVs contractors attended their property in October  2017 and January 2018  the 
removal of their contents was authorised. They  also noted it was possible to inspect their 
contents during  the initial stages on the claim,  but LVs contractors picked what  they wanted 
to look at, and referred other items  to one of its representatives in the office.
Because Mr E and Mrs O didnt agree this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I sent a provisional  decision  to Mr E and Mrs O on 8 October 2019. In this I said;
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im minded not to uphold  
this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Its important  to note Mr E and Mrs O, and LV has provided substantial documentation  on 
this complaint. Id like to reassure both parties  I have fully considered all information 
provided to me when arriving at my decision.  But, in this decision I have  only referred to the 
information which best illustrates  my reasoning for the decision reached.
Settlement for damaged  contents
Mr E and Mrs O have explained they feel the settlement amount provided  to them  for their 
damaged contents  is too low. Theyve  explained  there were  a large amount of items that 
were damaged, and these  havent been dealt with by LV. So, Ive needed to consider 
whether the settlement LV has provided is fair, and in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy.
As above, LV has provided a settlement of £1,440 for Mr E and Mrs Os damaged contents. 
It said this was based  on the damaged items it saw when it initially  visited Mr E and Mrs Os 
property in October 2017. Ive reviewed the initial report carried out by LV when it visited 
Mr E and Mrs Os home. Within this report it was explained there were some contents 
damaged by the escape of water  and these included shoes that were  kept within a 
cupboard, and a washing  machine and fridge freezer that needed inspecting.
Shortly after this a further report  was completed by LV. In this report it was explained that a 
list of contents items  considered beyond economical repair  had been  provided to 
Mr E and Mrs O to review and attach replacement  costs  to. Mr E and Mrs O had returned the 
list with the replacement prices detailed next to each item.
Ref: DRN48042253Ive seen this completed list. And having looked at this Im aware Mr E and Mrs O said there 
items would cost £1,690  in total. LV agreed  to provide a settlement of this amount, less the 
policy excess of £250 that applied  to the loss. Neither party disputes the excess  applicable 
on the policy or the replacement costs that were  attached to this list. As LV has provided
Mr E and Mrs O with a settlement based  on their costs to replace these items Im satisfied
LV acted reasonably in the settlement it provided  for this element of the claim. So, I dont 
intend of requiring LV to do anything more here.
LV has also provided  settlement for a laptop that was damaged  by the escape  of water  
after receiving a report from an expert who inspected the item for Mr E and Mrs O. It said it 
provided a settlement amount  of £699 which included the cost of the laptop being inspected, 
and the replacement cost according to the report Mr E and Mrs O provided. But, because  it 
had overpaid Mr E and Mrs O in respect  of alternative accommodation costs, it had only 
actually sent them an amount of £186.49.
Neither party has raised that the costs attached to the replacement  and report from the 
laptop specialist  are inaccurate  or incorrect. And based on the calculation LV has provided to 
me, it does look to be the case that LV provided Mr E and Mrs O with the correct settlement 
 taking into account an overpayment already made. If Mr E and Mrs O dispute this 
payment, or have  any evidence its incorrect, it should provide this information  in response to 
my provisional decision.
As detailed above, LV has said it was informed of further damaged  contents  items following 
the above loss list. Having  reviewed  the email  correspondence  provided to me I can see that 
in November 2017 LV was told there were two childrens tablets damaged as a result  of the 
escape of water. This was in addition to some toys,  food, cutlery, pictures  and wall hangings 
that had been disposed of.
And in December 2017 LV was told a number of damaged items were still in the process of 
being inspected  and listed by a restoration company appointed by Mr E and Mrs O. LV was 
provided with a list of items that needed  replacement, repair  or testing  in December 2017, 
and then a further list, including  a large  amount of clothes, that were all considered beyond 
repair by Mr E and Mrs Os restoration company, in March 2018.
LVs position  is that it isnt able to provide settlement for the items noted in November 2017  
or in these lists, because  it hasnt  had an opportunity to inspect and validate them.  It said it 
hasnt had the opportunity to see that these were damaged the escape of water, or to 
establish whether  they could have been cleaned, or were beyond economical  repair. I 
understand Mr E and Mrs O did provide a photograph of the tablets  and that a restoration 
company Mr E and Mrs O appointed did note some items were beyond economical  repair. 
But, I do think its reasonable for LV to review these items before it provides settlement to
Mr E and Mrs O for them   and for it to have firm evidence of their ownership, and price.
Mr E and Mrs Os policy does explain this that it may want  to meet  with a policyholder, 
discuss the claim, or undertake  further investigations as part of the claims process.  This is 
usual within  insurance  claims, particularly when  the amount  claimed for is substantial,  as is 
the case here.
Mr E and Mrs O have said all of their items were available for LV to see both during its visits 
to the property  in October 2017 and January 2018. And that these items were  omitted  by LV 
when it was handling the claim. But I havent  see any firm evidence to show  that these items  
Ref: DRN48042254were mentioned or shown to LV when it attended  Mr E or Mr Os property either in October 
2017 or later in January  2018.
Given this, I dont think LV has acted  unreasonably  in declining to provide settlement for 
these items.  So, Im not minded to ask LV to do anything more at this stage.
Ive seen a quotation and schedule of works from Mr E and Mrs Os appointed restoration 
company in December  2017 which  included a skip for disposal  of the items.  So, its 
possible Mr E and Mrs O no longer have the items claimed for.
Mr E and Mrs O have said LV agreed  for items to be moved. I have seen an email  from LV, 
noting it will either remove contents  to storage  or to the alternative accommodation they 
were staying in. But, I havent  seen anything  to show it agreed  for items to be disposed of. 
Given this, I dont think it provided Mr E and Mrs O with incorrect  information in this regard. If 
Mr E and Mrs O do still have any of the items damaged, or noted  as beyond economical  
repair, they could  provide  these to LV to consider.
Contents damaged  in transit
Mr E and Mrs O have explained that their bunk  beds and sofa were  damaged  by LV when it 
moved them to the alternative accommodation they were staying in.
LV disagrees. It says it didnt cause any damage to these items. It says that before it 
disassembled the bunk  beds and moved  them  it had pointed  out to Mr E and Mrs O that 
there was pre-existing  damage  to them. In terms of the sofa, LV said it lifted  it, wrapped it in 
plastic, and then moved it to the temporary  address. It said it didnt  take the wrapping off the 
sofas, or do anything further with the sofa. It said it was confident that it hadnt damaged this 
item either and these  looked to have been disassembled.
I havent seen any photos of the damaged  bunk  beds.  So, I dont know the extent to the 
damage Mr E and Mrs O have explained  LV caused. As I havent seen any evidence of 
damage caused by LV in moving these beds, Im not intending to require LV to provide a 
settlement for these.
I have seen photos of the sofa before it was removed to the temporary accommodation, and 
photos of it after this was moved. And these show the plastic packaging removed, and the 
sofa to be damaged. But the photos  dont show the whole sofa, and arent clear in what the 
damage to the sofa is. So, I cant say, based  on these, that the damage is likely  due to 
transit,  as opposed to other  types  of damage. If `Mr E and Mrs O have any further evidence 
Ill consider this. But, based on what Ive seen  so far, I dont think  there is sufficient evidence 
that the damage  was caused by LV.
White goods and electrical items
Mr E and Mrs O have said a number  of white goods and electrical items were damaged by 
the escape of water. LV agreed a number of items needed reviewing  to see if these were 
damaged.
LV completed a PAT test on the dishwasher  and washing machine. It has provided a 
certificate for both of these items, to show  they passed the PAT test, and were therefore in 
working order. And it said it would like to PAT test the fridge freezer  claimed for. But, 
Ref: DRN48042255because this was being stored in Mr E and Mrs Os bedroom, Mr E and Mrs O didnt feel this 
was appropriate.  So, it wasnt tested.
Mr E and Mrs O said that all of the items claimed  for were likely to be damaged  by the water 
and the steam that had been  present on the ground floor. And they said they would get their 
items tested  and provide this information  to LV. They have more recently told this service 
that none of these items are working  now. So, they all need  to be replaced.
It is for Mr E and Mrs O to prove their claim to LV. So, for me to say LV has acted 
unreasonably here I would need  to see evidence to show the items were damaged by an 
escape of water, and should have been  dealt  with by LV.
LV tested  the items  it was agreed could be tested.  And the information  provided to me 
shows these goods did pass  the PAT test. I havent seen any other evidence to show  that 
the PAT tested items,  or the remaining white goods  and electricals  claimed for were  tested 
and have been shown to need  repairing or replacing. Because of this, I think LVs current 
position on these  items  is reasonable. If all of these items are no longer  working,  
Mr E and Mrs O will need to show this is the case, and was caused  by the leak at their 
home.
Overall handling  of the claim
Mr E and Mrs O have said their claim was subject to lengthy delays, and that the service 
they received  from LV was poor.  When handling a claim an insurer  should handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  So, Ive thought  about  whether Mr E and Mrs Os claim was dealt with 
reasonably, and in line with this.
I think it was. I can see that LV took action  when it was able to, and did look to move forward  
with the claim. Ive not seen instances  where  I think LV could have proceeded  in a more  
efficient way. Mr E and Mrs O have said they are concerned with investigations that were 
being made in respect of their claim, between November 2017 and January 2018.  They  have 
said they want to know what investigations were  being carried  out during this time, as they 
were not told.
Ive looked at what was happening during this time. And I can see LV were  awaiting details 
of the items being claimed for under the contents  insurance policy.  Im aware it was 
corresponding with Mr E and Mrs Os representative during this time, asking for the required  
information. Im satisfied this was reasonable, so it could assess  Mr E and Mrs Os full claim. 
So, I dont think LV acted unfairly  here,  or unreasonably delayed the claim.
Because of this, Im not minded to require LV to do anything more.
After receiving my provisional  decision LV said it had no further comments  or evidence  to 
add. Mr E and Mrs O didnt agree. They said;
There were  some  emails that hadnt  been mentioned  in the provisional  decision. And 
they felt these may have not been presented to me initially. Mr E and Mrs O 
submitted these for review.
They have been treated unfairly  and appallingly which  was demonstrated by the loss 
adjuster LV appointed  to progress the claim. And they felt this wasnt mentioned  in 
the provisional decision.
Ref: DRN48042256All of the electrical items PAT tested  have failed because electrical equipment 
damaged by water do fail within a short period of time.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.
As above, Mr E and Mrs O submitted  emails  for me to review  as they were concerned 
these werent mentioned  in my provisional  decision. As detailed in my provisional decision I 
have fully considered all information  provided  to me when arriving  at my decision. But, I have 
only referred to the information which best illustrates  my reasoning for the decision reached.
Id like to reassure Mr E and Mrs O that these  emails were included  in their file. So, I did 
review the contents  of these when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case.  And I have reviewed these again. But, Im satisfied these dont 
make a difference to the outcome of Mr E and Mrs O complaint. 
The emails  provided  include communication between the loss adjuster LV appointed to deal 
with Mr E and Mrs Os claim, and Mr E and Mrs Os own representative.  From looking at 
these, alongside  all other information provided to me overall  Im satisfied the loss adjuster 
was communicating  with Mr E and Mr Os representative regularly during the claim, to 
explain LVs position  on the claim. And I dont  think these emails or the other evidence Ive 
seen demonstrates Mr E and Mrs O were  treated unfairly by LV or its representatives during 
the claims process. As detailed in my provisional  decision, Im satisfied  that LV took action 
when it was able to, and did look to move forward with the claim. So, I dont require LV to do 
anything more in respect  of this.
The emails  provided  do include  Mr E and Mrs Os representative chasing for a response to 
Mr E and Mrs Os complaint, which was made in March 2018. I can see LV did acknowledge 
the complaint  by letter in April 2018.  And provided  its response  to the matter at the end of 
May 2018. The final response  letter  should  have been sent to Mr E and Mrs O a week earlier 
than what it was. So I think LV couldve acted more  efficiently  in terms of Mr E and Mrs Os 
complaint. But, having  considered everything  I cant see this caused sufficient enough 
trouble and upset  to Mr E and Mrs O to suggest LV should do anything  further about this. 
So, I dont require any further action here.
Mr E and Mrs O also reiterated that the electrical  items  that were  PAT tested have  now all 
failed. As detailed in my provisional decision, I havent seen any evidence to show  the 
electricals items have  been tested and now shown  to need repairing or replacing. And 
Mr E and Mrs O havent provided anything  further following my provisional decision to 
evidence this. Because of this, I still think LVs current  position  on these items is reasonable. 
If all of these items are no longer working, Mr E and Mrs O will need  to show this is the case,  
and that this was caused  by the leak at their home.
As I havent  received any further evidence  or comments to alter the findings  noted in my 
provisional decision my final decision remains the same as noted in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN48042257My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 November  2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4804225