K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt do enough to prevent them losing 
money as a result of a scam.
Although the loss came from a joint account, for ease of reading and as hes done most of 
the correspondence, Ill mainly only refer to Mr S. 
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some  of the key events here. In January  2019  Mr S was unfortunately the 
victim of a scam. 
Mr S was looking  to make  an investment, he completed an online form and was contacted 
by someone purporting to be from a well-known investment firm. Unfortunately, Mr S was 
actually in contact  with a scammer. Believing  it to be a genuine  investment (and having been  
provided with professional  looking  documentation)   Mr S sent two payments to the account 
details provided.  The first was sent on 28 January 2019 (£20,000) and the second on 31 
January 2019  (£15,000). 
The payments were both sent from Mr S joint account with Barclays. The beneficiary 
account was also held with Barclays. A few weeks later Mr S was unable to speak to the 
investment firm using the details  hed been  provided with. So, he called the publicly 
available number for the investment firm that had been impersonated and discovered  the 
scam. He immediately reported  this to Barclays and asked that they help him recover  his 
funds. Barclays said they were unable to recover any of Mr S money. 
Mr S complained. He was unhappy that a scammer had been able to open and operate  an 
account with Barclays. He also doesnt  think Barclays  did enough to protect him from fraud. 
Barclays maintained  their position  and the matter  was referred to our service.  However, they 
did acknowledge that they took longer  than they would have liked to respond to Mr S and so 
paid £150 compensation  for the impact of that. 
Our jurisdiction meant we could consider Barclays actions  as Mr S bank in arranging, 
sending and acting  on notification of fraud for both payments. But we were  limited to only 
being able to consider their actions as the receiving bank in relation to the payment made on 
31 January 2019.  Simply put, that meant if we were to conclude  Barclays couldve done 
more to prevent  Mr S losses our jurisdiction would  only allow  us to make an award for 
payments made on or after 31 January 2019. 
One of our investigators  ultimately concluded that she didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She didnt think the payment  instructions Mr S provided were  particularly unusual or 
out of character for the account. So, she didnt think there was any reason for Barclays  to 
have intervened at that point. She also pointed out that the beneficiary  account with Barclays  
belonged to another business  who provide financial services. And she didnt think that 
Barclays missed  an opportunity to prevent or failed in their response to the fraud (where we 
could consider this) in relation to that account. 
Mr S disagrees and still thinks Barclays should reimburse his loss. Hes asked for an 
ombudsman to review  his complaint.
Ref: DRN43931802my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that the instructions to send  £20,000  and £15,000 on 28 and 31 January 2019 
respectively were authorised payments. Mr S provided valid instructions and used his 
security credentials through online banking to do so. So, even though he didnt know  he was 
being scammed at the time, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), and the 
terms of the account,  he is liable for the loss in the first instance. However, Barclays, like all 
banks, have obligations to be alert to instances  of fraud.  Generally  speaking, I think  its 
reasonable to expect  them to:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that their customers  were at risk of fraud (among other  things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks  are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, to have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases  declined  to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  
from the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
Whilst the sums involved are large, Ive considered whether or not the instructions to pay 
these amounts represented  unusual or suspicious activity in relation to the account.  What 
can be considered  unusual clearly requires reference to the common  activity  on an account. 
Ive looked back  at the bank statements as far as December 2017 to assess  this. The 
account was well managed and typically maintained a healthy credit balance  which  ranged  
from a few thousand pounds to over £80,000.  It wasnt uncommon for online payments to be 
made from the account. 
Of particular note are some larger payments a few months  prior to the payments made  as a 
result of the scam. In September 2018  over £80,000 was transferred from Mr S account. 
This included individual payments in the region  of £50,000 and £25,000. In that context, I 
dont think I can fairly  say the instructions  provided  as a result  of the scam ought to have 
stood out as unusual or out of character in relation to the usual activity on the account. The 
payments also didnt drain the account and were made a few days  apart, with no apparent 
urgency to send  the funds. Taking  everything into consideration,  I dont think the instructions  
were so unusual  for this account, that I could reasonably expect Barclays to have 
intervened. 
And as Mr S didnt speak  to or interact with Barclays staff at the time of the payment, I cant 
see that Barclays missed an opportunity to identify the payments were  being made in 
relation to a scam. The payment instructions were given online, had they been made in 
branch or over the phone, there might have been a further natural opportunity for 
intervention or for some questions to have been asked. However, that isnt the case here.
As I dont think Barclays reasonably ought to have  intervened before the payments were 
sent, Ive gone  on to consider if they did all Id expect when Mr S informed them  there was a 
Ref: DRN43931803problem. As the beneficiary account  was also with Barclays, they didnt need to contact 
another bank  to report the fraud  they would have been able to take the appropriate  action 
themselves. However,  in these circumstances the account into which Mr S funds were 
credited is held by another financial business who provides payments services to its own 
customers and have  chosen to use Barclays for their banking.  So Barclays couldnt just 
block their customers account, as the accountholder wouldve made the funds Mr S had 
transferred available for their customer  which is something Barclays  wouldnt have 
oversight of. 
Barclays should have  contacted their accountholder and told them Mr S payment had been  
made as a result of a scam, which they did. But they were later told that they were  unable to 
return any funds. The nature of the services provided by Barclays  accountholder means that 
when a payment  is received, it is typically immediately transferred out again. So even if there 
was a delay in Barclays making  that contact, its unlikely that this impacted whether any 
money was recoverable as Mr S didnt become aware of the scam  for several weeks. So 
overall, I dont think Barclays are responsible for failings  that prevented Mr S money  being  
recovered. 
Ive then gone on to consider whether Barclays could have prevented  Mr S loss through  
their actions in relation  to the beneficiary accountholder. Barclays accountholder is a 
genuine and legitimate company and there  is nothing to suggest that Barclays shouldnt 
have opened that account or that they failed  to conduct their due diligence. 
The activity  on that account is in line with what would be expected  for an account of that 
type, particularly  given the business  of its accountholder. As such, I dont think  Mr S 
payments or any of the account activity ought to have stood out to Barclays as unusual or 
suspicious. I dont  think there was any reason  for Barclays to have intervened and to have 
asked questions of their account holder.  Overall,  I dont  think  Barclays  failed  in such  a way 
that they missed  an opportunity to prevent Mr S loss. 
Barclays accept that they could  have  provided better service regarding the time it took them 
to respond to Mr S complaint. They offered Mr S £150  compensation  for this. I think  this is 
fair for the impact of the delayed response. 
Im sorry  to hear that Mr and Mrs S have been victims of such a cruel scam.  But it would only 
be fair for me to direct Barclays  to refund the loss if I think they caused it. And within the 
context of my jurisdiction to consider this complaint,  I dont think  they did. Ultimately  the 
scammer is the responsible party, and I dont think there were failings by Barclays that could 
have prevented the loss or that prevented it being  recovered once reported.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 July 2021.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4393180