K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) shared confidential 
information about her granddaughters savings account with a third party.  Mrs K brings this 
complaint in her role as trustee of the account.  
background
Halifax has confirmed it gave a third party written information about Mrs Ks granddaughters  
account in branch. 
Mrs K was notified about whatd happened by the third party and complained.  Halifax  agreed 
it shouldnt have given  confidential information  to a third party and offered £250 to resolve 
the complaint.  Its explained that its policy is to not tell a customer when informations been 
shared incorrectly.
Mrs K referred her concerns to this service and an investigator looked at whatd happened. 
The investigator felt Halifax  had dealt with the complaint and its offer of compensation was 
fair. But as Mrs K didnt  agree, the complaints been  passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin  by explaining what the Financial Ombudsman Service  can look into. Were 
an informal dispute resolution service so well look at the individual  circumstances of a 
complaint. But we dont regulate how businesses handle information  or the policies they 
have in place  when its incorrectly shared. And we cant say whether theres  been  a breach 
of the regulations on businesses concerning how they deal with information  thats the role 
of the Information  Commissioners Office  (ICO).  
Mrs K says she doesnt think Halifaxs policy of not telling  customers  when theres been a 
potential breach is fair. But as Ive explained above, thats not something  we can look at. Its 
an issue that would need to be discussed with the ICO. Mrs Ks told us shes  referred her 
concerns to the ICO so I wont comment on whether theres been a breach  further.  
We can look at whether a business has met its duty to keep private  information  confidential. 
And in this case all parties agree that Halifax shouldnt  have  given account  information to a 
third party in branch.  So Ive focused  on what Halifax has done to try and resolve what 
happened.
Like the investigator, I think Halifax has dealt with this complaint fairly. Its confirmed that 
feedback has been given  to the branch in question and offered £250 for the trouble and 
upset caused.  
Ive taken on board what Mrs Ks told us about  the impact of Halifaxs  mistake.  And that 
another family member was offered more compensation in a similar  situation.  But I can only 
consider the individual  circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im satisfied the 
£250 Halifax has agreed to pay is fair in the circumstances raised  and very much  in line with 
what I wouldve told it to pay had no offer been made. So I wont  be asking Halifax  to take 
any further action  or increase its offer.
Ref: DRN49545302my final decision
Halifax has already  made  an offer of £250  to settle  the complaint and I think this offer is fair 
in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  
should pay Mrs K £250. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4954530