K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a loan in 
2009. Mrs W says Black  Horse Limited mis-sold  her the PPI. It covered her loan payments in 
case she was off work sick. Mrs W paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which 
didnt attract interest.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Having done that, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
According to the sales  script from the time, advisors were told to describe the PPI as 
optional and give customers  the choice to take it or turn it down. From  the record of the 
conversation, it looks like Mrs W turned down unemployment cover  but chose sickness  
cover. Her credit agreement also described the PPI as optional, and set out its cost 
separately to the cost of the loan itself  it wasnt part and parcel of the loan. Mrs W 
signed specifically  to take out PPI, separately  to signing for the loan. So I think  its most 
likely that Black Horse made  it clear Mrs W didnt have  to take out PPI and that she chose 
to take it  though I can understand why she might not remember  this after so long.
Black  Horse recommended  the PPI to Mrs W, so it had to check that the policy  was right 
for her  and based on what shes told us of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, it looks like Mrs W was eligible for the cover and wasnt  affected  by 
any of its main  exclusions or limitations. It wouldve paid out on top of her work benefits 
and covered her for much longer. And according to the record of the conversation  from 
the time,  Mrs W told Black Horse she didnt  have any alternative insurance.  She told our 
service she did have  other insurance policies, though these wouldve covered different 
things to the main  accident and sickness benefit. Overall,  it looks  like the PPI couldve 
been useful for Mrs W in her circumstances.
The cost of the PPI was set out clearly  on the agreement, so I think  Mrs W wouldve 
understood how much she would  pay for the policy if she chose it.
Lastly, its possible that Black Horse  shouldve given  Mrs W clearer information  about the 
main things  the policy didnt cover. But as I said above, it doesnt look like Mrs W was 
affected by any of those  things.
 
This means  Black Horse doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Black Horse will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because:  
Black  Horse got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs W about  that. Because  Black Horse didnt tell her, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN42961302To put that right, Black Horse has basically offered  to pay back  the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Black Horse  has to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. Black  Horse should  also pay back to Mrs W any extra interest  
she paid because of that.
That means Black Horse should pay back to Mrs W the extra  she paid each  month because  
the commission and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Black Horse 
should also pay Mrs W 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs W can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Black  Horse Limited doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Black Horse Limited does have  to pay back to Mrs W any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, then I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4296130