K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with his home emergency insurance.
background 
Mr D had a British Gas policy that he cancelled in September  2018 and another that he took 
out on 21 December  2018. That policy covered Mr Ds central  heating  system, home 
electrics, kitchen appliances and plumbing and drainage.
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include its 
associated plumbing  and drainage company, engineers and others  insofar as I hold the 
insurance company  responsible for their actions.
Mr D called British Gas for help with hot water and central heating  issues.  He complained  
about the service  he received.
In its final response,  British Gas said it was sending Mr D a cheque  for £200.00 for multiple 
visits. Unhappy with this amount,  he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. She didnt 
uphold the parts of the complaint relating to damage  to the property, damage to the washing 
machine and the cancellation of the policy. She thought  that even if the £200.00 was for the 
service issues  and delay,  it was on the low side and didnt reflect  the overall service. 
She recommended that British Gas should - in addition  to the £200.00 already offered - pay 
Mr D a further £100.00 to reflect the overall distress  and inconvenience caused  to him.
Mr D disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says,  in summary, that:
The problems started in July 2018. He had little or no hot water.
British Gas said it was an issue for the water supplier.
Due to the water  escape and lack of water  pressure, he replaced the shower  unit. It 
wouldnt have needed replacing had British  Gas done what it shouldve  done. That 
cost £360.00 for the shower and £125.00  for the work needed  to replace in the 
bathroom.
He lost hot water completely around November 2018.
Around January  2019 the water  supplier took two weeks  to dig up the pavement and 
replace the stop-cock  outside the house.
Water  was leaking within the property.
The ground was wet due to the leak.
Eventually British Gas cut the carpet  in two rooms, dug up the concrete floors in two 
places and opened the wall to get access to the pipework and repair  the leak.  
Near where British Gas cut the carpet,  it cut the back of a sofa.
British Gas lifted floorboards and did not put them back properly. They  need 
replacing and will be done under  the insurance.  
British Gas left a lot of cement / plaster  left on his chairs.
British Gas shouldve  fixed  his radiators sooner.
His whole family  of five was inconvenienced including  his two autistic boys,  the 
youngest of whom  is 6 years  old. The children were  ill.
Ref: DRN42995972He made  two claims under the contents  and buildings sections of his home insurance 
policy. Due to the negligence of British Gas,  he had to pay excesses of £550.00  and 
£450.00.
The pump British  Gas replaced on 24 December 2018 had to be replaced again  at a 
cost of £543.00.
Total out of pocket costs are £2,028.00  as a minimum. 
It took 28 days to dry the property with heaters. For a week  there were dehumidifiers 
which were loud enough to hear them upstairs at night.
British Gas damaged  the plastic handle of the washing machine. After  he 
complained, British Gas took a video of the door without his consent.  This door was 
replaced in full by another insurance company.
British Gas cancelled  the policy.
British Gas agreed with the investigators  opinion.  It says, in summary,  that this matter 
wouldve been dealt  with much quicker  had it not encountered  difficulties  with Mr Ds 
behaviour.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas policy terms
The policy covered making access,  repair and making level afterwards. It didnt cover 
reinstatement of floor coverings.
From the diagram in the policy terms, I see that it didnt cover  any water pipe between  the 
external stop-cock  and any water meter but it did cover any pipe between the meter and the 
internal stop-cock.  The policy didnt cover  showers.
The policy had the following general exclusion:
Any other loss or damage
Were not responsible for any loss of or damage  to, or cleaning of property, furniture  
or fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking  or failing unless we 
caused it. For example  damage caused by water leaks.
So the policy  didnt  cover water damage  unless British Gas caused it.
The policy said that British Gas could cancel it in certain circumstances including  the 
following:
You put our peoples health  and safety at risk, for example, physical or verbal 
abuse
events in summer 2018
With hindsight, I find it likely that water  had been  leaking  since  before July 2018  when  Mr D 
called British Gas.  So I cant  say British Gas caused the leak or the start of the water  
damage. I find it inevitable  that Mr D would have to make a claim on his home insurance  
and pay any relevant excesses.
Ref: DRN42995973In July 2018 Mr D contacted  British Gas for help with low water pressure in his home.  On 9 
July 2018 British Gas visited and suggested  that he contact the water  supplier. I dont find 
that an unreasonable response  notwithstanding  that it later turned out there was a water 
leak inside  the house.
On 21 August 2018 Mr D contacted British Gas again about  the water  pressure, affecting his 
shower.  British Gas visited on 22 August 2018.  It replaced the diverter  valve and told Mr D 
that he may have an issue  with the shower.
As the policy didnt  cover  the shower, it wasnt the responsibility of British Gas to decide 
what to do about  it. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British  Gas to compensate 
Mr D for the cost of a replacement and associated work. In any event I havent  seen  any 
receipt. 
period 5 September to 21 December 2018
Mr D cancelled the policy. So he didnt contact  British  Gas during this period.
events from 21 December  2018
Mr D took out a new policy from 21 December 2018.
On 22 December 2018 he asked for help with his central heating and hot water 
system. From what he has said, it wasnt working  at all. This is the only occasion  for which  I 
have seen evidence  that Mr D told British Gas of a problem with central heating.  British  Gas 
visited on 24 December 2018  and replaced a pump  diaphragm.
I havent seen  any evidence to show that there  was later a need  to replace the pump.
On 7 January  2019 Mr Ds wife contacted British Gas about  poor water  temperature  and 
pressure. British Gas visited again  on 9 January 2019. It reported low mains water  pressure. 
It again suggested that Mr D contact the water supplier.  Again I dont find that an 
unreasonable response  notwithstanding  that it later turned  out there was a water leak 
inside the house.
On 21 January 2019, British Gas visited again.   Mr D said the water supplier was due to visit 
later that day.  British  Gas said it would come back if the water supplier was unable to 
resolve the fault.
On 22 January 2019, Mr Ds wife told British Gas that the water supplier had replaced the 
external stop-cock.  As the water supplier replaced it, I find it likely that there had been 
something wrong with the stop-cock.  But there was still low pressure  and no hot water in the 
house.  
British Gas visited again on 23 January 2019. It identified low water  pressure in the 
neighbours property. It again suggested that Mr D contact the water supplier. Again I dont 
find that an unreasonable response.
The water supplier said there was a leak on the water supply pipe Mr D shared with the 
neighbour. But the neighbours  home  assistance company was unable to locate a leak on 
that pipe.
Ref: DRN42995974I find it likely  that the water supplier and the neighbours home assistance company had to 
complete their work  before anyone could identify that there  was a leak inside  Mr Ds house. 
For that reason  I dont  consider that British Gas could and should have identified  that leak 
before 29 January 2019.
On 29 January 2019, British Gas visited again.  At that stage it suspected a leak under Mr 
Ds floor.  British Gas arranged to return with leak detection equipment.
British Gas visited again on about  1 February  2019.  It told Mr D that the leak was under 
some boxing. It asked him to sign an authority to proceed damage disclaimer.  I consider 
that this was in line with the policy. But Mr D felt British Gas had attended without the correct 
equipment. He told British  Gas to leave the property.
From the recordings of calls on 5 February  2019, I find it likely  that Mr D had used abusive 
language to the engineer on 1 February.  Mr Ds abusive language  on 5 February caused 
British Gas to terminate the first call. So I dont hold British  Gas responsible for the short 
delay that followed. 
British Gas visited again on 15 February  and 18 February 2019.  It cut carpet, cut into the 
floor and cut into walls. British Gas has said that the leak was from a pipe and into an 
internal gulley. Mr D hasnt said any different. 
So I find that the leak had been hard to detect. Im not persuaded that British  Gas shouldve  
identified an internal water leak before 29 January 2019.
From the photographs I can see that it made  a mess. But I cant  say that British Gas did any 
more than was necessary  to find and fix the leak. Im satisfied  that  having opened up the 
floor and walls - it made them level.
From what  Mr D says,  the repair meant  that his central heating radiators worked where they 
hadnt worked before. But  apart from the call-out on 24 December 2018  I havent seen 
any evidence that Mr D had reported  radiator issues to British  Gas. 
Mr D had complained  that British  Gas had damaged his washing  machine. So I dont find it 
unreasonable that British Gas tried to take a video  of it on 18 February.  
Mr D objected to British  Gas taking a video. And he hasnt provided  any photograph of the 
washing machine.  So Im not persuaded that British Gas damaged  it. In any event Mr D has 
said that another insurer has replaced its door. So I dont consider he has suffered any loss 
in that respect.
Mr D complained that British Gas damaged  his sofa and his chairs. But I cant  see such 
damage in the photographs. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British  Gas to pay 
compensation for such damage.
British Gas cancelled  Mr Ds policy. Im satisfied that British Gas did so fairly  and in line with 
the policy terms. Notwithstanding his claim, it refunded the premiums  on a pro-rata  basis.  So 
I dont consider that the cancellation was unfair  to Mr D.
I accept that for many months Mr D and his family  experienced hot water problems, 
inconvenience and upheaval. I havent seen enough medical evidence from which to make a 
Ref: DRN42995975finding that British Gas caused illness. But I dont doubt Mr Ds statement that he and his 
family were ill. And I accept that their illness increased his inconvenience  and distress. 
But I dont find British  Gas responsible  for much of this. The shortcomings Ive identified are 
two or three visits that werent  as productive  as they might have been. That caused  Mr D 
some extra distress and inconvenience,  including concern for his family,  at an already 
difficult time for them.
Overall, I find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to pay Mr D in addition to its 
cheque for £200.00   a further £100.00  for distress  and inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr D  in addition  to its cheque  for £200.00  a 
further £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4299597