K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about his home insurer CIS General Insurance  Limited in relation  to a 
claim he made to it after he noticed a sewage  smell at his home.
background
Mr H called CIS on 21 March 2018  as hed noticed a bad smell from under the dining room. 
CIS appointed a drainage  specialist to investigate and validate the claim. Mr H wanted a 
weekend appointment and was happy to wait for this until 8 April 2018.
The drainage contractor reported  two possible issues with the pipe run under the dining 
room floor,  including  a belly (a downwards  curve of the pipe) in the upward stream towards 
the kitchen sink but as it runs under the dining  room  floor. There  was some debate about 
what might  have caused the issues; the contractor raised the possibility this might be due to 
poor installation.  CIS said as there  was no proof of this it would need to repair  the pipe.
Enabling works to allow for the pipe repair were undertaken  on 27 April 2018. The drainage 
contractor returned  on 1 May 2018  to repair the pipe. Mr H was unhappy as he felt that 
concrete beams  supporting the suspended  concrete floor had been damaged  when the 
laminate was lifted and access  was gained  to the void for the pipe repair.  He reported  the 
drainage contractor said it would reinstate the concrete floor by packing  the gap between  
beams with insulation and then pouring  concrete over this. Mr H was concerned this might  
leave his home unstable and/or with a damp  problem (damp proofing  had been  breached  
as well). He asked for a surveyor  to be appointed to assess  the damage.
Meanwhile the drainage contractor dug up the garden outside. It said this was to re-route  
the pipe to prevent it from holding waste water. Mr H reported that once this work  was done 
he was told the new pipe was holding zero waste water  but he undertook  a CCTV survey 
which showed this wasnt true.
Mr H also had doubts as to whether the issue with the pipe had really  been resolved. He 
said hed been  told the belly had been  removed. He got his own drainage  report. This found 
no belly in the dining room but did find one under  the kitchen.
CIS reinstated Mr Hs dining room  and he was happy with the work once completed (around 
the end of July 2018).  But he told CIS it had taken far too long for the claim as a whole to 
be resolved. He was also unhappy about how hed been spoken to. CIS had paid Mr H to 
reinstate the garden. Mr H didnt think its settlement was sufficient.
CIS said the belly in the kitchen was unrelated to the work it had undertaken. It said the 
belly did not equate to damage so wasnt something it needed to fix under the policy. CIS 
said Mr Hs report  didnt find any flaws in the work  it had carried out and it was its experts  
opinion that had determined the whole length  of the pipe-run  needed  to be accessed. It 
accepted there had been some delays  when it had appointed a surveyor.  It offered  £125 
compensation. As Mr H felt this didnt answer most  of his concerns, he complained  to us.
Our investigator felt UKI had acted  reasonably  and its offer of compensation was fair. Mr H 
said this didnt really  address  most  of his complaint points. He noted  particularly that we 
hadnt said anything  about the way hed been  spoken to by CIS or considered whether all 
the work  done  had been necessary. He said the drainage contractor had broken  paving 
slabs and he couldnt get all the garden reinstatement work done for the £900 CIS agreed  
Ref: DRN47010002to.
The complaint was passed  to me for an ombudsmans decision to be made. I asked  both 
sides for more information,  including copies  of call recordings from CIS. I issued a 
provisional decision. My provisional findings were:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, given that we havent  
looked at some issues to date and because new evidence has been  gathered  and 
considered by me, Im issuing a provisional  decision.
what works were necessary
Mr H has said that the whole pipe run under  the dining room didnt need  accessing. No 
work was done  under  here  it was all outside. Whilst I think  Mr H has a point in that no 
measurements were taken by CISs contractor of where the faults  lay, Im satisfied  work  
was done in the pipe run under the dining room.  However, the repair  wasnt satisfactory  so 
the contractor looked  to re-route instead. Overall, I think that as the contractor was looking 
to address a lack of fall with the pipe, it seems  likely  that access to most of the length  under 
the dining room  would  always have been needed,  initially at least.
damage, the void and a surveyor
CIS appointed a different  company to do the enabling work. But damage was done to the 
concrete beam. CISs drain  contractor had been  told previously that there was concrete 
under the laminate and then a void in which the pipe was situated,  but this information 
didnt get passed on. Then, when  issues were raised about the damage done, whilst Mr H 
was under the impression a surveyor was being  appointed for this purpose,  CIS has been  
told the void presented  a problem for the drainage contractor and this meant a surveyor  
was needed.
There was then a further issue  as when  CIS asked  for a surveyor,  its loss adjuster 
attended, and then appointed a surveyor. Meanwhile Mr H was expecting the first visit to be 
from a surveyor.
The surveyor, once it attended  did then find the beams had been damaged and that fairly  
extensive work was required in order to reinstate the room. Although the stability  of the
house had not been compromised, and reinstating  damp proofing in the affected  area alone  
was possible (the whole floor didnt need  taking up).
I think CIS failed Mr H regarding all of this. Better care should have been taken when 
enabling works were  done, and more attention given to the information  Mr H had provided 
about the structure of his home. I accept that this all caused a lot of upset for Mr H and 
caused the claim to drag on for far longer than it should have done. I know  CIS has blamed  
some of the delays following the surveyors visit, to the point it agreed costs, on what  it 
viewed as the non-standard construction of the floor.  But if it hadnt damaged the floor in 
the first place then it wouldnt  have  needed to investigate how to resolve  the damage.
the garden
I think re-routing was necessary. But the garden  shouldnt have been left in the state  it was.
Ref: DRN47010003Ive reviewed the settlement CIS paid. I see it asked Mr H for quotes.  When  he provided 
one it wasnt broken down and CIS asked for more information. Mr H said it was proving 
difficult to obtain  that. I see Mr H and CIS then talked about the price and work involved. 
CIS reviewed its costs, accepted it needed to make increases to allow  for replacement of 
two broken paving slabs, extra turf and hardcore. CIS and Mr H agreed to settle at a cost of 
£900 for the work, in lieu of further  evidence being provided by Mr H to show what  work his 
quote, and therefore costs  incurred,  related to.
As I understand it, Mr H has still been  unable to show what his costs were for the work  CIS 
agrees it was liable  for to reinstate the garden. Mr H has shown me that he paid a garden 
contractor (not the one who provided the quote CIS saw) £2,100 for work  but there is no 
detail to confirm  what work this figure  was paid against. I also note that CIS did try and get 
further information from Mr H and when he identified an issue  with obtaining this CIS looked 
to reach  an agreement with him. I think its settlement was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
That being  said,  CISs drainage contractor should  have taken better care in the first place. It 
shouldnt have broken slabs, and the garden ended up needing  re-turfing because  CISs 
contractor hadnt  re-levelled  the garden after installing the pipe-run before re-laying the turf. 
Again, if CISs contractor  had done  a better  job all of Mr Hs hassle and upset regarding the 
garden could have been avoided.
does CIS need  to do anymore work?
I cant see there is any failed repair. I dont know what  Mr H was told about what water the 
re-routed pipe would hold.  But Im not persuaded the mere fact it is holding  some water 
means the repair wasnt completed  adequately.  I note that Mr Hs report  hasnt  suggested 
this is the case.  So Im not going to make CIS do anything more in this respect.
Mr Hs report does  identify a belly in a pipe under the kitchen. Mr H has said he was told 
there was definitely no belly in place once  CISs contractor finished work.  I dont know  if 
Mr H was told this or not. But it seems  to me that any comment  like this could only
reasonably be said to relate to the pipe/section  of pipe the contractor  had worked on. CISs 
contractor never noted an issue on a pipe under the kitchen floor or took on work to fix an 
issue there. And even  Mr Hs own expert notes the belly in the kitchen is remote from the 
area the smell was noted in. CIS has said this belly in the pipe under the kitchen doesnt 
equate to damage. I have  to say I think that is reasonable.  The pipe isnt broken and the 
belly isnt causing  an issue. It may in the future but that doesnt mean it is damaged  now.  
Im not going  to make CIS do anything more in this respect.
the way Mr H was spoken  to
I understand the calls Mr H had were  frustrating. I accept that it must have felt to him as 
though he wasnt  being listened to. But Im not persuaded that Mr H was dealt with in a rude 
or surly manner as he has suggested.  I dont think CIS failed him in this respect.
compensation
Ive explained  above where I think CIS failed  Mr H. In summary, whilst I think  it digging up 
the whole  floor and re-routing the pipe was likely necessary, CIS should  have taken  better 
care in doing that work. Because it didnt  take care Mr H suffered upset and disruption due 
to delays, extensive reinstatement works  internally  and organising the garden  
Ref: DRN47010004reinstatement. For all of that I think CIS should pay £300 compensation.
CIS accepted my findings.  Mr H did not. In summary  Mr H said he couldnt understand how 
I felt £300 was sufficient  given  what CIS had put him and his family through.  He said he felt 
I shouldve understood that the extent  of CISs  failures meant the family  had been  severely  
inconvenience for a number  of months. Mr H feels CIS has got away  with it and hes been 
left out of pocket  to boot.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand how frustrated and upset Mr H is at what went  on at his home. And as my 
provisional findings show (copied above  here) I think CIS did fail him. My final decision will 
be published  and, if Mr C accepts my decision CIS will have  to pay him compensation 
totaling £300 (CIS should note that Mr H hasnt cashed the cheque it sent previously). So it 
isnt the case  that CIS has got away with its poor handling of Mr Hs claim.
I note Mr H doesnt think £300 is enough  but it is not my role to punish  an insurer,  or make 
an award with a view to stopping it acting in the same way in the future. Rather,  having  
regard to the guidance weve set out on compensation awards, I decide what  fair and 
reasonable compensation is for the upset thats  been caused. Often, in line with that 
guidance (which  can be found on our website), my awards  are modest  no more  than a 
few hundred pounds. My award here doesnt seek to detract from what Mr H went  through 
or diminish  the fact CIS needlessly caused him upset. Rather it means  that in the 
circumstances here this is what I think is fair and reasonable to make  up for that. 
I appreciate that Mr H disagrees but that isnt reason for me to amend my provisional 
findings and award more  compensation.   
Mr Hs financial  loss is considered separately to the upset he was caused. And I did 
consider as part of my provisional findings  whether  CIS should reasonably pay more  for the 
reinstatement work  Mr H undertook. But Mr H negotiated a settlement with CIS and, most 
importantly, he cant show any breakdown for the cost he incurred. Whilst CIS failed him, it 
is still up to Mr H to show  he had a loss as a result  of that and, so far, he hasnt shown that 
his entire  cost incurred  for garden work  (or even more than the £900 settlement agreed) 
related to reinstatement  work  that CIS was reasonably liable for. As such  Ive no grounds 
on which I can reasonably  conclude that the settlement agreed of £900 was unreasonable,  
meaning I cant fairly make CIS pay anything more.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. Im satisfied that CIS General  Insurance  Limited failed Mr H 
and in doing so caused upset. I require CIS General Insurance  Limited  to pay Mr H a total 
of £300 compensation (if any part of this has been paid already, only the remainder will now 
have to be paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Fiona Robinson
Ref: DRN47010005ombudsman
Ref: DRN4701000