K820x#14complaint
Mr H brings this complaint  on behalf  of his business  R, a limited company. 
Mr H says Barclays Bank UK plc delayed  his access to loan funds which caused him 
financial loss. He also wants compensation for the distress and inconvenience he was 
caused trying to sort things out with Barclays.  
background
R applied to Barclays for a loan in February 2019. Mr Hs ex-wife is a shareholder in R. The 
purpose of the loan was to buy his ex-wifes  shares in R. Prior to applying for the loan Mr H 
had been paying his ex-wife £3,000  per month  to purchase her shares.  Mr H had come to an 
agreement with his ex-wife that hed pay her £50,000 as a lump  sum final settlement instead 
of making a monthly payment.  
When Mr H applied for the loan he asked for it to be in place before the end of February. So 
that he didnt have to make  his March monthly payment. Barclays told Mr H this wasnt  
possible. But it agreed that the funds would be available  before his April payment was due. 
At the time of the application Mr H already had a loan with Barclays  for approximately 
£2,000. Mr H asked  to borrow £52,000 so that he could repay the smaller loan and have one 
monthly payment  instead of two. Mr H states that he wasnt  told that the smaller loan would 
be paid off automatically using funds from the new loan. And says that he thought it would 
be paid back a month or so later. 
Mr H states that the new £52,000 loan was delayed three times  by Barclays. He says that on 
22 March 2019  Barclays told him that they had all the necessary documents  and the money  
would be available  on the 25 or 26 March  2019. But on 25 March 2019 Barclays  incorrectly  
told him that they hadnt received the loan guarantee paperwork, which Mr H had sent to 
Barclays via recorded  delivery. And it asked him to provide the postal tracking  number to 
help it locate the documents so that it could complete the loan. 
On the 26 March 2019 Barclays let Mr H know that they had found the guarantee 
documents. And it told him that the money would be available on 27 March 2019.  This didnt 
happen. Barclays apologised to Mr H as the loan was not completed  before he went on his 
holiday. However, the loan completed the following day, the 28 March 2019. 
Mr H said because of the delays he had to pay his ex-wife  £2,500  to prevent her backing out 
of the agreement to sell him her shares. He also says he had to speak to Barclays on a daily 
basis on the phone and send e-mails including whilst on a flight to try and sort things out. He 
says this all caused  him a great  deal of stress  and inconvenience to his business. 
Mr H complained to Barclays about  its service.  And said Barclays  should  pay him £1,500 
compensation for the time he spent trying to sort things out. And it should reimburse him the 
£2,500 that he paid to his ex-wife. 
Barclays accepted  that they could have provided  Mr H with better  service.  They  agreed that 
on three occasions they gave Mr H incorrect  information  about when the loan would be 
available. And that hed been inconvenienced  unnecessarily when they asked him to provide 
a tracking reference  for documents they already  had. Barclays pointed  out that the loan was 
in place before Mr Hs April payment to his ex-wife was due. 
Ref: DRN45637752To put things right Barclays  offered to refund the loan fee of £780 and security fee of £300.  It 
also offered Mr H £250 compensation for the delays and being given the wrong information. 
Mr H didnt accept Barclays offer. He doesnt think it reflects the amount of trouble and upset 
hes experienced. Hes also unhappy that Barclays debited  the loan and security fees from 
his account after it offered  to waive them. 
An investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint  and didnt uphold it. The investigator said 
Barclays offer was fair and reasonable. So didnt ask them to do anything more.  Mr H did not 
accept the investigators  findings. He wants more compensation.  As no agreement could be 
reached the matter  has been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr H will be disappointed  but Ive 
decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
As some of the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory, Ive made my decision on what I 
think is most likely  to have happened   based on the evidence  that is available.  
Mr H says because Barclays took too long to release the loan funds he had to pay his ex-
wife £2,500 to persuade her not to back out of the deal to buy her shares. He says Barclays  
should compensate  him for this financial loss. 
When considering  whether  or not Barclays has done  enough to put things right I need to 
consider the impact Barclays  mistake had on R, the limited company,  rather than Mr H 
himself, who is the director of the company.  Thats because a limited company is a separate  
legal entity from the people  that run it. I can tell a business to make an award  for 
inconvenience in this situation   but only if it was experienced by the company itself,  rather  
than the people running it. 
Mr H says Barclays actions caused  him to lose £2,500, which was a financial penalty he 
paid to his ex-wife  so, he wants Barclays to compensate him for this. But, the £2,500 
relates to an amount Mr H had to pay his ex-wife for their divorce settlement, which is a 
private matter between them. It wasnt an agreement between  the company and Mr Hs ex-
wife. So I wont be asking  Barclays  to compensate  Mr H for the payment he made to his ex-
wife. 
Mr H has complained that Barclays used part of the loan to pay off a smaller loan that he 
already had with Barclays. Ive read the loan application, which Barclays completed  with 
Mr H in February 2019. It states  that £50,000 was to be paid to Mr Hs ex-wife  to buy her 
shares in R. And approximately £2,000  would  be used to pay off Mr Hs existing loan. I cant 
find any evidence suggesting Mr Hs existing loan would  not be settled until a month  later. 
So I dont  see that Barclays have done  anything wrong here when it used part of the £52,000  
loan to settle Mr Hs smaller  loan.
Ref: DRN45637753Mr Hs also unhappy that the loan and security fees were  taken  from his account after 
Barclays offered to waive these. The terms and conditions state that the arrangement fee is 
payable upon  acceptance of the loan agreement and the security  fee will be payable on first 
drawdown of the loan.  So Barclays  were  entitled to debit these fees from Mr Hs account.  I 
can see that Barclays offered to refund  the fees. But Mr H didnt accept their offer.  So I cant 
say that Barclays have done anything  wrong here.
When Mr H applied for the loan he wanted the loan available  by the end of February  2019.  
Barclays has provided copies of its notes of meetings it had with Mr H. I can see that 
Barclays explained that this timeframe wasnt  possible. And that Barclays  set out that the 
loan application  process would take about  a month  to complete. I also note that Mr H 
accepted it would take longer than he wanted. But that hed have the funds in time to avoid  
having to make the April payment to his ex-wife.
However, Mr H then told Barclays  that he needed  the money sooner as hed decided to go 
on holiday. And he asked Barclays if the money could be released before  the 27 March 
2018. Barclays acknowledge  that whilst trying to accommodate Mr Hs request they gave 
him incorrect information about when the loan would  be available  on three separate  
occasions. And wrongly told Mr H they hadnt received paperwork hed sent to them.  
Barclays also agreed that Mr H had to make  several phone calls over a period of five days to 
find out when  the loan funds would be released  to him. Overall, Barclays  accepts it provided 
Mr H with poor service and caused him some  inconvenience.
Ive looked at Rs bank statement and can see that Barclays deposited the loan funds  into its 
account on the 28 March 2019.  So Im satisfied that Mr H had the funds in time to avoid 
having to make his monthly payment to his ex-wife.  
Barclays has apologised for providing  Mr H with incorrect information and not being able to 
release the funds to Mr H before he went on holiday.  It has offered Mr H £250 
compensation. Mr H doesnt think this is enough.  He wants  Barclays  to pay him £1,500 
compensation for the trouble and upset  hes experienced. 
As Mr H has brought his complaint  to us on behalf  of his company  I cannot look at a distress 
payment to a business. But I can look at inconvenience. Mr H had to make  several phone  
calls and write e-mails to provide information to Barclays, which Barclays  mistakenly told him 
it hadnt received.  This was time Mr H couldnt spend running his business.  
To put things right Barclays  have offered to refund the £780 loan fee, the £300  security fee 
and to pay £250 compensation. Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that Barclays 
offer fairly reflects the level of inconvenience experienced by R. So Im not going to ask 
Barclays to do anything  more.
my final decision
I am aware  that Barclays  Bank UK plc has made an offer to pay Mr H as director of R, 
£1,330 made up of refund of arrangement fee, refund of security  fee and inconvenience  
payment. I conclude that such  an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My 
decision is that Barclays Bank UK plc should pay Mr H £1,330 if it hasnt  already  done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Ref: DRN45637754Anthony Coyne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4563775