K820x#14complaint
The original  complaint concerned a transfer of the late Mr Hs occupational  pension scheme 
(OPS) to a Section  32 pension policy in 1982. It is submitted that Friends Life Limited  (FL) is 
responsible for this transfer and the advice Mr H was given to transfer.  It is submitted that 
this advice was flawed. The complaint also concerned the annuity Mr H took out in 2003 and 
it is said that FL did not give appropriate advice to him about  his retirement options including  
widows and dependents benefits.  
background
Mr H held a Section 32 policy with FL which was created by the transfer  of a previous 
occupational pension scheme.  I have  previously issued a jurisdiction decision which set out 
that I could  not consider the complaint  about  the transfer to the Section 32 policy  but I could 
consider the complaint about the annuity. 
Mr H took benefits from his pension in 2003. He took a tax free cash  sum and then started a 
single life annuity which would not provide  widows benefits on his death.    
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator at this service. She did not believe the 
complaint should  be upheld.  She said that there  was not a great deal of evidence  as to what 
happened when  the annuity was taken out. But bearing in mind  what was available, she 
could not say that advice  was given by FL to Mr H about which  annuity to start. 
She also thought  that the evidence suggested  that the pension Mr H held did not provide for 
a widows benefit.   
Mr Hs representative did not agree.  It maintained  its view that Mr H would have been 
advised about the transfer of his pension to FL. It said that there should be more  records 
available as to what occurred.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
jurisdiction 
It does seem that Mr Hs representative,  in response to the adjudicators assessment about 
the annuity, is referring in the main  to the complaint  about the transfer of the pension  itself. I 
have already issued a decision  setting  out why that complaint would not fall within my 
jurisdiction. I remain  of that view and would refer the parties  to my decision of 12 February 
2019.
complaint about the annuity
There is a letter dated 19 September  2002 from FL to Mr H. This mentions that there has 
been a telephone conversation between Mr H and FL and that, in response  to this, FL is 
supplying a retirement pack. This is described  as containing information about pension  
options and forms  to complete if benefits are to be taken. Unfortunately a copy of that 
retirement pack is not available. 
Ref: DRN44327502Be that as it may, the letter does not indicate that Mr H had received any tailored advice from 
FL as to how to take his benefits from his pension. I have not seen  any other documentary 
evidence, provided  by either party,  that Mr H received advice from FL about what benefits to 
choose. Furthermore FLs (now Avivas) records do not indicate  that Mr H received such 
advice from it. Mr H has been  recorded  as following an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA)  
sales channel, which tends to indicate he either had such  an IFA or, more  likely in my view, 
he decided what pension  benefits to take himself (his personal contact with FL would tend to 
indicate that). This is not in my experience unusual; many individuals  choose what benefits  
to take without taking financial advice. 
It is my view that, although there is a lack of evidence  that would set out exactly what 
occurred, what evidence  there is would indicate  that FL did not give advice to Mr H as to 
how he should take his benefits.  It is more likely that he decided  to take tax free cash  and 
then set up a specific  kind of annuity. I do not see anything wrong in FL following his 
instructions. So I cannot hold FL responsible for the way in which he took benefits.       
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4432750