K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr W bought the policy  in 1997 at the same  time as taking out a loan. He applied for the loan 
and PPI policy in a branch. The policys one-off upfront premium of £367.04  was paid in 
advance by being added to the loan (a single premium) where  it attracted interest over the 
term of the loan. The loan was repayable over a 36-month term and the policy term matched 
that of the loan The monthly loan repayment was £136.65 with the PPI costing an additional 
£12.54 making  the total monthly repayment £149.19. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr W for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr Ws monthly loan repayment for up to 
36 months (or the remaining term thereof) in the event of a successful  disability claim and 12 
months in the event  of unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr W was employed as a manager. He has told us he was entitled to between  3 
 6 months sick pay with his job and that he also had some savings, although Ive not seen 
evidence of the savings. Mr W has said he was in good health at the time of the sale.  Ive 
considered everything  hes said about his circumstances  with care.  Nationwide  has sent us 
screenshots to show that the loan account ended in November  2000.
Mr Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf. I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  Mr 
Ws representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr W wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ws 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr W about the poor value;  
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr W and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and
Ref: DRN48148722The information Mr W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2000. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN48148723I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ws case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr W with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr W sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr W suffered  loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr W and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr W know he had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. Ive seen Mr Ws loan 
application form. There was a section about adding PPI where the applicant  could either  tick 
yes or no to having this type of cover. I note Mr W ticked the yes option and also signed 
Ref: DRN48148724his name  directly beside this. He signed  the application at the bottom too. Further to this, I 
see Mr Ws credit agreement, which  he also signed,  said the PPI was optional.
So, taking everything  into account, I think there is strong evidence  here that Mr W knew the 
policy was optional and he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Mr W didnt appear sure.  However,  
looking at what happened when Nationwide sold Mr W the PPI, Im not persuaded that it 
provided advice  as this corresponds  with my knowledge and experience of these particular 
sales. This means Nationwide didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr W. Instead, 
it had to give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  Mr W to make  an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr W was given a broad  description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr W was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because there was information to that effect on the documents  he signed. I also 
think its unlikely Mr W would have taken out the policy  without any sense of what the policy 
was. And I think Mr W could see that the single premium being added  to the loan was 
£367.04 and the interest  added to the premium was £84.40; the total cost was £451.44 and 
the monthly cost was £12.54. This information  was, in my view, sufficiently clear on the loan 
agreement Mr W signed.  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr W agreed to take out the policy.  So 
I cant say Nationwide  gave Mr W sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ws representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
Ref: DRN48148725-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr W about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr W has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done  either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr W? To what extent did Mr W 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr W. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr W 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr W 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Mr W says he would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr W had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. As Ive found above,  Mr W chose to take this policy out. So I 
consider that its reasonable to conclude he had some interest in the benefits offered by this 
type of insurance.  But he possibly made this decision  based  on incomplete information.  So 
what Mr W thought he was getting  may not have been exactly what  he got. The extent to 
which this differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr W has suffered  any 
loss or detriment. 
As Ive already  said, the information Mr W was given  about the cost and/or benefit was clear 
enough. But the information  about  other  aspects  of the policy,  such  as the limitations or 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been. Possibly the most  significant differences 
between what Mr W thought he had bought  and what he actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and/or symptoms that Mr W 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr W 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr W be unable to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
The policy did not provide a pro-rata  refund if Mr W repaid the loan early and the 
policy was cancelled,  so it wouldve been more expensive for Mr W to have  done  so.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Mr W pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude that the policy  
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
Ref: DRN48148726the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr W from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
he wouldve been  caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mr W didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and he was in permanent  employment. So, I still think  he had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy specifically didnt single out back or mental health conditions  or place any 
additional restrictions or more onerous evidential requirements in the event of a claim on 
those grounds than would have applied  to any other  disability claim. And I think  its unlikely 
Mr W would  have expected to make a disability claim  on the policy  without first providing 
some evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr W had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into his thinking about what  he would  have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although its possible he may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mr W was unable (through disability) to carry on his own 
occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Although an exact  pro-rata refund would not have  been paid if he cancelled the policy early,  
the loan period was relatively short and there is nothing to suggest that Mr W had plans to 
repay the loan early.  The purpose of the loan was not debt consolidation or anything else 
which might  suggest a need to repay  the loan early, or that this was likely  to happen.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr W would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close to what 
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences were  Mr W made redundant, or unable to work through  accident or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr W would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr W would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN48148727Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr W 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr W in the position he would have  been  in if he had not 
bought the policy. That is because, while I accept its possible  he wouldnt have taken out 
the policy, Im satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still 
have taken out the PPI had he been  given  clear, fair and not misleading  information about 
the policy he was buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should  pay Mr W compensation, as that would put him in a better position than 
he would  have been in if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr W thinks Nationwide misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
Nationwides statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide  gave Mr W, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1997 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ws representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find Nationwide  negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr W and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Nationwide had been in breach  of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr W in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN48148728my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4814872