K820x#14Complaint
Mr F complains Experian Limited  will not refund some disputed  transactions.
background
Mr F says a monthly  credit report membership with Experian was not set up by him.  The  
payments left his account from November 2011 until May 2016  which  is when he first 
noticed them  and complained to Experian.
Experian stopped the payments  when it was contacted by Mr F but said it wouldnt be 
refunding the previous five years  worth because it was satisfied it had followed its correct 
procedure when setting  up the account.   It said the details matched those of Mr F  including 
his email address  where he would have received regular updates.
Experian also said it had a record on the account  notes which suggested Mr F had made 
contact with its call centre  on three  occasions   twice in 2011 and once in 2013  asking for 
assistance in accessing his account.
On this basis, it suggested Mr F should  approach  his card provider and seek recovery of the 
payments if his card had been used fraudulently.
So, Mr F came to this service.  He  denied having  set the account up.  He suggested his ex- 
partner may have done so.  He said he had not realised the payments were  leaving his 
account for five years  because he hadnt  paid that much attention to what  was leaving the 
account.  He was more concerned about what was going in.
Mr F also told this service  Experian had previously  offered to reimburse  half of the payments 
which had been  made but had now refused to do so.
Our investigator raised  this last issue with Experian. However, it had no record  of that offer 
ever having  been  made to Mr F.
Having looked  into the opening of the account,  our investigator didnt think  he could ask 
Experian to do anymore  so the matter was passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and having done so, I arrive at the same 
decision as the investigator  and for very much the same reasons.
I do not think it is unfair or unreasonable for Experian to hold Mr F liable for this membership 
for the following reasons:
-the account opening details match Mr Fs including his email  address which  he has 
provided to this service;
-Experian held a phone number when  the account was opened  a number which  
Mr F told our investigator was one he had previously held;
-Mr F would have  been sent alerts via email regarding his account  yet did not raise  
the complaint  with Experian for five year;
Ref: DRN48140702-notes on the account show the account holder contacting Experian on three 
occasions asking  for assistance with logging in.  These  calls are no longer  available 
but I see no reason  why a fraudster would open  this account as the information  
would benefit  no one other  than Mr F.  Therefore, I think its most likely the person 
calling Experian  was Mr F.
I think its most likely  than not that Mr F opened  this account and forgot to cancel the 
membership  hence the monthly fee.  In those circumstances, I dont think it would be fair 
or reasonable to ask Experian to refund them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4814070