K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Santander UK Plc debited their bank account for 
transactions they didnt make. Mrs S says she was tricked by fraudsters into handing over 
information which they then used to transfer  funds out of their joint account.
background
Mrs S fell victim to a social engineering  scam which involved vishing. This is where a 
fraudster calls a consumer and uses a range of persuasive techniques to manipulate  them 
into sharing personal  information. Here the fraudster pretended to be from Mrs Ss telecoms  
provider and convinced  her to take certain  steps and share information in order to gain 
access to her bank account  and steal  money  from her and Mr S.
what happened?
Mrs S says she was at home unwell; she had been  signed off from work  and was feeling 
emotionally vulnerable.  Mrs S was called by a fraudster  pretending to be from her telecoms  
provider, saying there was a problem with her router. She says theyd had problems with 
their router  in the previous weeks, so the call wasnt surprising. 
Mrs S says she was told someone from California  was hacking in to her router, and she 
needed to turn it off and back on again. Mrs S says she was directed to run a scan  on her 
computer. She said the caller sounded like he was in a telecoms  centre because  of the noise 
in the background. She said all this convinced  her she was talking to her genuine telecoms 
provider. It appears that during the call Mrs S was persuaded to download software on to her 
computer which gave  the fraudster remote access. Shes since said she didnt realise thats 
what she was doing at the time because she was just asked to type some letters  into the 
computer. Mrs S says she was shown errors which linked to several of her online accounts,  
including shopping  accounts and email  accounts she and her husband  genuinely used. 
She said the caller  knew she banked  with Santander which  is one of the things that led her 
to believe the caller was genuine. She says her direct debit for the telecoms service comes  
from the Santander account, so it strengthened  her conviction that the caller was genuine 
and must  have had access  to her telecoms account. 
Mrs S was persuaded  to log in to her online banking.  Mrs S has said she cant remember  
anything changing  on the screen. She says she was told she would receive One Time 
Passcodes (OTPs) from Santander and these were to show Santander  were  authorising  
what was going  on. When these came through to her mobile  phone, Mrs S relayed them  to 
the caller. She received  three codes. The text messages  she received read: 
This OTP is to AMEND A PAYEE on a payment.  Dont  share this code with anyone.  Call us 
immediately if you didnt  request this [OTP  CODE].
Shortly after sharing  these codes, Mrs Ss conversation with the caller  ended.
The fraudster used  these  codes to change the details of three existing  payees  (name, 
account number  and sort code) on Mr and Mrs Ss joint account,  and attempted  transfers 
totalling £18,338. The fraudster also transferred money between Mrs Ss other linked 
accounts, her savings and sole current account,  totalling £800.
Ref: DRN44898202Nearly an hour after Mrs S first logged into her online banking, she received an 
Adeptra call (an additional security call) from Santander. This call was prompted by 
Santanders fraud systems which flagged three  of the transactions as suspicious. The call 
was to verify  with Mrs S that she had authorised  these payments from her account. She 
responded to the automated call saying  she hadnt  authorised any payments from her 
account. Because of her response  to the automated  call she was transferred to Santanders 
fraud department, and she explained  what had happened earlier. The following are relevant 
extracts from the call between Mrs S and Santander:
 they made me go through stuff on my computer. Is my computer not safe now either? 
[call handler advises Mrs S to turn off computer while he tries to stop pending payments] 
I went  through a [telecoms provider]  website  I just dont understand  I even phoned  
[telecoms provider] from my mobile while this was going on and he said I know that youve 
just phoned [telecoms  provider]   cos I suspected it might have been a scam and this is 
what I just dont understand   They  just said to me someone in California is hacking on to 
your router,  can I unplug my router and turn it back on again. And then they asked me to go 
on to a [telecom providers website]  and do a scan, and it just looked  like it was a Microsoft 
scan. And Ive just been completely had. And so I phoned [telecoms provider] on my other 
phone because I didnt  trust it, and he said to me I know youve just tried to ring [telecoms 
provider]. So Im like, did they hack my phone as well. I just dont understand 
He sounded like he was in a massive  [telecoms provider] call centre; there  were  so many 
people in the background  
I dont know what I downloaded  Is it still safe to log on?  I kept questioning him 
because I just didnt  trust it but he had all the answers  Weve had trouble with the 
[telecoms provider]   And  Ive had a couple of these OTPs cos he said he was trying to 
clear stuff on the system but obviously that was how he got into my bank account  [pause] 
quite clearly your message says dont share with anybody  [call handler advises 
restrictions have been placed on account,  advises Mrs S to get laptop  professionally 
cleaned, and explains process - call ends].
Santander was able to stop some of the payments at this time but Mr and Mrs S suffered 
losses of £9,760 from their joint account.  
Below are the timings of the online  banking  activities during the scam, according to 
Santanders online banking  records:
Date Time Online activity Amount Recovered?
13/12/16 11.52 Mrs S logged into online banking 
13/12/16 12.09 First OTP sent to Mrs S and was used  to 
amend a payee at 12.10
13/12/16 12.12 First payment transferred  out of the 
account (to payee  1)£4,880.00 no
13/12/16 12.18 Second payment transferred out of 
account (to payee  1)£4,788.00 yes
13/12/16 12.29 Second OTP sent to Mrs S and was used 
to amend a payee at the same time
13/12/16 12.31 Third payment transferred out of the 
account (to payee  2)£4,880.00 no
13/12/16 12.38 Third OTP sent to Mrs S and was used to 
Ref: DRN44898203amend a payee at 12.39
13/12/16 12.40 Fourth payment  transferred out of the 
account (to payee  3)£2,900.00 yes
13/12/16 12.24 Transfer of money from Mrs Ss savings 
account into the joint account£400
13/12/16 12.43 Transfers of money from Mrs Ss sole 
current account into the joint account£400
13/12/16 12.45 Fifth payment transferred  out of the 
account (to payee  2)£890.00 yes
£9760.00
Mr and Mrs S do not dispute that Mrs S gave  over one time passcodes (OTPs) to the 
fraudster. But they think the system in place at the time for amending existing payees was 
inadequate, and say this is demonstrated by others falling for the same scam. Mr and Mrs S 
want to know how the fraudster was able to change the name and account details of three 
existing payees  and make  large transfers to them without  detection  or suspicion by 
Santander.
Santander didnt  refund Mr and Mrs S. It said the transactions occurred after Mrs S allowed 
a third party to remotely  access  her computer and online banking. This gave the third party 
full access to Mr and Mrs Ss bank accounts.  It also said the transactions  were authorised 
using OTPs contained  within  text messages which were sent to Mrs Ss registered  mobile  
number, and which were  then entered into online banking by the fraudster. 
Santander offered  Mr and Mrs S £100  compensation for poor complaint handling as it didnt  
respond to the complaint when it was first raised in January 2017. 
As Mr and Mrs S werent happy with Santanders  final response so they referred their 
complaint here. One of our investigators  looked  into things. He concluded that because 
Mrs S had allowed  the fraudsters access to her online banking (albeit unwittingly) and given 
away the OTPs, which allowed the fraudster to carry out the transactions,  Santander  didnt 
need to refund the transactions. 
Mr and Mrs S did not agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review their complaint, so it has been passed to me.
response to my provisional  findings
on 23 November 2018 I issued a provisional  decision on Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. After 
considering all the evidence and arguments presented by both sides, I was minded to 
conclude that:
Mrs S did not authorise  the transactions in question;
Mrs S had not acted  with gross negligence; 
Santander should fairly and reasonably refund  the money  obtained from Mrs S by the 
fraudster, plus interest  at the rate he would have received had the money  remained  
in Mr and Mrs Ss joint account;  and
Ref: DRN44898204Santander should pay Mr and Mrs S £300 for the trouble and upset they 
experienced.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative responded and in summary said:
-Santander should bear a substantial responsibility for this fraud because they had 
failed to identify  the security  flaw in their authorisation procedure   its OTP system 
was flawed and created  a loophole  for fraudsters to exploit.
-In light of this clear failing on Santanders part I believe  that Mr and Mrs S should be 
awarded a significantly  higher  rate of interest  than they would have received had the 
money not been moved from the account.  Whilst they had no stated  plans for these 
funds, they lost the opportunity of investing them and have had to live for nearly two 
years not knowing if they would ever recover their money.
Santander also responded  to say it had nothing further to add and accepted the findings 
reached in my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties accept  on the whole 
accept my provisional findings I see no reason  to depart from these so Ill set those out again 
here and Ill address the additional points raised by Mr and Mrs Ss representative.
my provisional findings
The rules  of our service mean that I have  to determine this complaint by reference to what  I 
consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. When  considering  
whats fair and reasonable I am required  to take into account;  relevant law and regulations;  
regulators rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate what I 
consider to have  been good industry  practice  at the relevant  time.  
Ive summarised below what I consider to be the relevant regulations and account terms, 
and Ive taken  them into account when deciding this complaint.
relevant considerations
Santander as an FCA regulated firm provided a current deposit account. As such  the FCAs 
overarching Principles for Businesses  apply including the requirement to pay due regard to a 
customers interests and treat them fairly  (Principle 6). 
The transfers from Mr and Mrs Ss account were  made in December 2016. So of particular 
relevance to my decision about  what is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint are the Payment Services Regulations  2009 (PSR 2009). I think  these sections of 
PSR 2009 are of particular relevance  here:
Ref: DRN44898205Consent and withdrawal  of consent
55.(1) A payment transaction is to be regarded  as having been  authorised  by the payer for 
the purposes of this Part only if the payer has given its consent  to
(a) the execution  of the payment transaction; 
Obligations of the payment service user in relation to payment instruments
57.(1) A payment service user to whom a payment instrument has been issued must 
(a)use the payment  instrument in accordance with the Terms and Conditions 
governing its issue  and use; and
(b)notify the payment service provider in the agreed manner and without undue 
delay on becoming  aware  of the loss, theft,  misappropriation or unauthorised  use 
of the payment instrument.
(2) The payment  service user must on receiving a payment instrument take all reasonable 
steps to keep its personalised security features safe.
Evidence on authentication  and execution  of payment transactions
60.(1) Where a payment service user
(a)denies having authorised an executed  payment transaction; or
(b)claims that a payment  transaction has not been correctly executed,
it is for the payment service provider  to prove  that the payment transaction was 
authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment  service  providers accounts and 
not affected by a technical breakdown or some  other  deficiency.
(2) In paragraph  (1) authenticated means the use of any procedure  by which  a payment 
service provider is able to verify the use of a specific payment instrument, including its 
personalised security  features.
(3) Where a payment  service user denies  having authorised an executed payment 
transaction, the use of a payment instrument recorded by the payment service provider is 
not in itself necessarily  sufficient to prove  either that
(a) the payment  transaction  was authorised by the payer; or
(b) the payer acted  fraudulently or failed with intent or gross  negligence to comply with 
regulation 57.
Payment service providers liability  for unauthorised payment transactions
61. Subject to regulations  59 [Notification  of unauthorised or incorrectly  executed  payment 
transactions] and 60, where an executed payment transaction was not authorised  in 
accordance with regulation 55, the payment service provider must  immediately 
(a) refund  the amount of the unauthorised payment transaction  to the payer;  and
(b) where applicable, restore the debited  payment account  to the state  it would have been in 
had the unauthorised payment transaction not taken place.
Ref: DRN44898206Payers liability for unauthorised  payment  transactions
62.(1) Subject  to paragraphs (2) , the payer  is liable up to a maximum of £50 for any 
losses incurred in respect of unauthorised payment transactions arising
(a) from the use of a lost or stolen payment instrument; or
(b) where the payer has failed to keep the personalised  security features of the payment 
instrument safe, from the misappropriation of the payment instrument.
(2) The payer is liable for all losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment 
transaction where the payer
(a) has acted fraudulently; or
(b) has with intent or gross negligence  failed to comply with regulation 57.
consent
Regulation 55 says that the payer  must give consent, and it must  be given in the form, and 
in accordance with the procedure, agreed  between the payer and its payment  service 
provider. The payment  services directive  itself (which PSR 2009  implements)  says In the 
absence of such consent, a payment transaction shall be considered to be unauthorised. 
But neither  PSR 2009 nor the FCAs 2013  guidance  on PSR 2009  provide a definition of 
consent.  
I therefore think it is fair, when considering whether consent was given, to apply the common 
definition of consent, which is to give permission for something to happen.
gross negligence
Whether a customer has acted with gross  negligence  is something that can only be 
assessed on a case by case basis taking into account all the circumstances.   The term is not 
defined in PSR 2009 nor in the first Payment Services Directive.  However, recital 72 of the 
second Payment  Services Directive provides as follows:
In order to assess possible negligence or gross negligence on the part of the payment 
service user,  account should be taken of all of the circumstances.  The evidence and degree 
of alleged negligence should generally be evaluated  according to national  law. However, 
while the concept of negligence implies  a breach of a duty of care, gross negligence should  
mean more  than mere  negligence, involving conduct exhibiting a significant degree of 
carelessness; for example, keeping the credentials used to authorise a payment transaction  
beside the payment instrument in a format that is open and easily  detectable by third 
parties
Reflecting this, the FCA, in its document setting out its role under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, says:
 we interpret gross negligence to be a higher  standard than the standard of negligence 
under common law. The customer needs  to have shown a very significant degree  of 
carelessness.
Ref: DRN44898207Although neither of these is directly relevant  to this complaint, they are of value  as a relevant 
consideration in the absence of contemporaneous  interpretative guidance, and because they 
inform the meaning  of a concept  that has been in place for some  time (in the Banking Code). 
When considering   gross  negligence in a commercial contract context, Mance J in Red Sea 
Tankers Ltd v Papachristidis  (The Ardent) [1997]  2 Lloyds Rep 547, 586 said:  
If the matter is viewed  according to purely English principles of construction,   Gross 
negligence is clearly  intended to represent  something more fundamental than failure to 
exercise proper skill and/or care constituting negligence  as a matter  of ordinary language 
and general impression, the concept of gross  negligence  seems to me capable of embracing 
not only conduct undertaken with actual appreciation  of the risks involved, but also serious 
disregard  of or indifference to an obvious  risk.
Negligence is often  referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. But as I have 
described above, gross negligence suggests a lack of care that goes significantly beyond  
ordinary negligence. So I have to consider whether what  Mrs S did fell so far below the 
standard expected of a reasonable person that it would  be fair to say she failed with gross 
negligence to keep  her personalised security details  safe or to comply with the Terms and 
Conditions of her account. 
the Terms & Conditions of Mr and Mrs Ss account 
Santander has referred to its Terms  and Conditions when considering Mrs Ss actions.
The following  are extracts from the general  Terms and Conditions  applicable  to 
Mr and Mrs Ss joint account at the time.  These Terms and Conditions broadly reflect the 
provisions contained  in the PSRs  2009.
7. your remedies for unauthorised payments  a) if you notify us that a payment was not 
authorised by you, we will immediately refund your account with the amount of the 
unauthorised payment  taken.. b) before  we refund  your account, we are entitled to carry 
out an investigation if there are reasonable grounds  for us to suspect that you have acted 
fraudulently, deliberately or have been  grossly negligent. We will conduct  our investigation 
as quickly as possible and may ask you to reasonably assist  in that investigation.  
9. you must  keep your Personal  Security Details secure and follow the safeguards in this 
document and on santander.co.uk to keep your Personal Security  Details, PIN, card and 
chequebook secure The care of your chequebooks, cards, PINs, Personal Security Details 
and selected personal information  is essential to help prevent fraud and protect your 
account. To ensure this you must:  not disclose  your PIN or Personal Security Details to 
anyone else, not even a member of Santander  staff;  and only enter your Personal Security  
Details where you are requested to do so by an online banking screen. c) we may debit your 
account with any amount  refunded under Condition 7.2 a) in Section 2A where we 
subsequently become  aware that the payment authorised by you or that any of the 
circumstances 
9.7 the care of your chequebooks, cards, PINs, Personal Security  Details and selected 
personal information is essential to help prevent fraud and protect  your account. the ensure 
this you must:c)  always  take reasonable steps to keep your cards  safe and your PIN, 
Personal Security Details and selected  personal  information secret and dispose  of them 
safely. f) not disclose  your PIN and Personal Security  Details to anyone  else,  not even a 
Ref: DRN44898208member of staff. h) only enter your Personal Security Details where you are requested  to do 
so by an online banking  screen; i) act on any further  instructions  we give you to ensure that 
your online banking is secure. Any instructions will reflect  good  security practice, taking 
account of developments in e-commerce.
13. in each case we have  to show that you acted fraudulently, deliberately or with gross 
negligence or that you failed  to notify  us as required.
 
13.3 we have to prove: any allegation  of fraud;  or that you were grossly negligent in failing 
to follow  any of the safeguards listed in 9.7
Santander also referred us to its online  banking  terms when considering Mrs Ss actions in 
giving over OTPs to the fraudster:
To access the online service, customers need  to accept the Conditions  of use. They  state at 
11.1.6  Whenever you use the One Time Passcode  functions you must  take all reasonable 
precautions to prevent anyone else from accessing your confidential  information  including  
the One Time Passcode(s) that will be sent to you. You must never disclose your One Time 
Passcode verbally to any individual even if they claim to be our employees  or agents or the 
Police.
key questions
In my view the above relevant considerations mean that, if the transactions  were 
unauthorised, it would be fair and reasonable for Santander to refund the amount stolen from 
Mr and Mrs S, unless  Mrs S, with intent or gross negligence, failed to comply  with the Terms  
and Conditions of the account  and the obligations set out in Regulation  57.
The reasons  given by Santander  for deciding to not refund  the amount stolen from 
Mr and Mrs S are not clear.  Santander  in its final response to their complaint simply said it 
was because you allowed a third party to remotely access your computer and online 
banking. This has given the third party full access to your bank accounts. The transaction 
has also been authorised using our One Time Passcode  service.  Text messages were sent 
to your registered mobile phone number and entered  into online banking. 
Santander hasnt  made it clear on what basis it is holding  Mr and Mrs S liable for the 
disputed transactions.  In these circumstances I think there are two key questions  relevant to 
my consideration about what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances:
1.Were the disputed  transactions authorised by Mrs S? and;
2.If they werent, can Santander  demonstrate  that Mrs S failed with intent or gross  
negligence either to comply with the Terms and Conditions  of her account  or to keep 
her personalised security  details  safe?
Though there is naturally  some overlap of events when answering these two questions, I will 
approach them in this order. But before I do so Im going comment  on Santanders 
investigation in the initial hours and weeks after the scam.
Ref: DRN44898209Santanders investigation
Ive listened to the calls between Mrs S and Santander, in particular the first call that Mrs S 
makes where she responded to the Adeptra call. This is where Mrs S realises shes  just 
been the victim of a scam. This is the most  reliable  recollection of events by Mrs S; its just 
happened in the moments before. So I think its reasonable to rely on what  she said during 
that call about  how the scam unfolded.
Mrs S gives  information piecemeal as the call handler quickly tries to stop the payments. In 
that first call, however, the call handler in Santanders fraud department doesnt give Mrs S 
the opportunity  to fully recount what has just happened, which I appreciate  is a competing 
priority with trying to act quickly to stop and recover the payments. 
Santander called Mrs S back over two weeks later and asked some  questions about what 
happened during the scam. But again she isnt asked to recount all the steps that the 
fraudster asked her to go through, and what information she gave  over and why. I think 
Santander shouldve  asked Mrs S more questions  at the time, to piece together what exactly  
happened. Because it didnt do this, information is missing and the recollections from Mrs S 
arent as full as Id like. Its now not possible to know exactly  what happened during the 
scam.
As Ive said,  Ive listened to the calls to piece  together what I think  most likely happened at 
the time.  And Im satisfied  that I have enough  information to reach a fair and reasonable 
conclusion on this complaint. Ive had to re-create  what I think  most likely happened based  
on these calls, and Mrs Ss later recollection of events and the technical information provided  
from Santander to show the online banking activity.  
were the disputed transactions  authorised by Mrs S?
On the balance of evidence  Im not persuaded that Mrs S authorised these transactions from 
her joint account with Mr S. Ill explain why.
As Ive said I dont know exactly what steps were taken by Mrs S, but it appears  as though 
she gave the fraudster remote access to her computer.  During  the first call with Santander 
she said,  they made me go through stuff on my computer. Is my computer not safe now 
either?  The Santander call handler  asked if the fraudster had remote  access  to her 
computer, and Mrs S says she went through what looked like the genuine telecoms 
providers website.
A representative for Mrs S wrote to us in July 2017 and detailed Mrs Ss recollections of 
events. The representative said the fraudster instructed  Mrs S to type a number of things 
into her computer  I think this is when Mrs S believed she was running a scan  on her 
computer  but this is when  I think  the fraudster actually gained  remote  access to her 
computer. Based on what Ive heard during her calls with Santander Im persuaded that, at 
the time,  she didnt  know that taking the steps she did, to run the scan, actually gave the 
fraudster remote access to her computer. 
Mrs S accepts she gave over the OTPs to the fraudster. She says she thought  he needed 
these to clear a virus from her online banking. Given what  happened next, its clear the 
fraudster used these  codes to amend existing payees on the account.  The fraudster then 
transferred money  out of Mr and Mrs Ss bank account to payees unknown to them.
Ref: DRN448982010However, there is no evidence to show that, at any point during the call with the fraudster, 
Mrs S knew  that any payments were going to be made from the joint account. Mrs S says 
she was told the OTPs  were to show Santander was authorising what  was happening and 
to clear stuff off the system and at the time she thought she was talking to someone  from 
her telecoms provider. I dont think she had any reason to believe the process she thought  
was underway (running  a scan and clearing her computer), involving her telecoms  provider, 
would involve any money being  taken  from her account. I also note that when she received 
the Adeptra call she responded  no when asked if shed authorised  payments to leave her 
account. I think it unlikely  that would have  been  the case  if Mrs S had given her permission 
(i.e. consented) for payments to be made from her joint account.   
Mrs S recalls  that she didnt enter the OTPs into her online banking, she gave these to the 
fraudster - and I think thats likely given her recollections, and the fact that a fraudster with 
remote access to her online banking  would have been able to enter the OTPs themselves. I 
dont think she was aware that any payments  were  being made from her account. On 
balance Im persuaded Mrs S didnt consent to or authorise these transactions to be made 
from her joint account.
So, my starting point here is that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for Mrs S to be held liable 
for these  transactions  which I think are more likely  than not to have been unauthorised - 
unless she has failed  with intent or gross  negligence to comply with the terms and conditions  
of her relationship with Santander and the obligations set out in the PSR 2009.
did Mrs S fail with gross negligence  either to comply with the Terms and Conditions  
of her account,  or to keep her personalised security details safe?
Mrs S was tricked by a fraudster into allowing remote access to her computer, and then 
persuaded to log in to her online banking. Mrs S was also then tricked into handing over 
three OTPs  which allowed  three existing payees to be amended, effectively  making them 
into entirely new payees. However,  on the balance of evidence, I dont think it would  be fair 
and reasonable to say that, in falling for these  tricks and failing to keep her security details 
safe, Mrs S was grossly  negligent. Ill explain why.
As I set out earlier, negligence  is often referred  to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. I 
think it is fair to say that gross negligence involves a degree of negligence that is higher than 
ordinary negligence. That is consistent with what  has been  held by the courts  in a 
commercial contract context (as mentioned, Mance  J held that Gross negligence is clearly 
intended to represent something  more fundamental than failure to exercise proper skill 
and/or care constituting negligence), and the FCAs guidance, which says that gross 
negligence is a higher  standard  than the standard  of negligence under common  law. 
Ive thought carefully about the actions Mrs S took in the circumstances here, and whether 
what she did, fell so far below the standard of a reasonable  person that it would be fair to 
say she failed with gross negligence to keep  her personalised security details safe or to 
comply with the Terms and Conditions of the account.
Ref: DRN448982011Gross negligence  isnt an abstract  concept. Its important to take into account  all the 
circumstances when  considering whether an individuals  actions amount to gross 
negligence. The scam here involved social engineering, where the fraudsters use a range 
of sophisticated  techniques to trick,  deceive  and manipulate their victims into giving  out 
confidential information. Here Mrs S was made  to believe  she was talking  to a genuine 
company shed had previous dealings with and that she needed to act quickly to protect 
herself from an attack on her email  and bank accounts. So Ive thought about Mrs Ss 
actions in that context,  and considered  each  thing she did in turn: 
-Mrs S had recently had problems  with her telecoms provider and says she had 
spoken with the genuine telecoms provider, in the weeks  before the fraudulent call. 
She says the fraudster  knew  information  about  her and it sounded like they were 
calling from a genuine call centre; and she says he had all the answers . Although 
she had her doubts during the call, she was reassured when the caller appeared to 
know she was trying to call the telecoms  provider  from her mobile. So I can 
understand why all of this together caused Mrs S to think  she was talking to her 
genuine telecoms provider. And Im satisfied that in this instance  Mrs S was entitled 
to think she was talking  to her telecoms provider and didnt expect them  to scam her. 
I think many  reasonable consumers  would have been similarly convinced in the 
circumstances.
-When she downloaded the remote access software Mrs S says that she thought she 
was running a scan on her computer,  that she was directed to a website which  she 
says displayed the telecoms providers logo, and that it looked to be genuine. I have  
no reason to doubt her recollection about this. It wasnt until after the fraud  had 
happened that she realised she had inadvertently  given  the fraudster remote  access 
to her computer. Given that Mrs S thought she was following the instructions of her 
telecoms provider I dont think it was unreasonable for her to believe that she was 
only running a scan.
-Mrs S was told her email accounts  had been affected and the fraudster then coaxed 
her to go into her online banking. She did so quickly and she thought  she was 
proactively protecting her online banking. I acknowledge that, when considering  the 
situation with the benefit of hindsight, you might  ask how Mrs Ss telecoms provider 
would know her bank  account was also under attack. But this in itself doesnt  lead me 
conclude that Mrs S was grossly negligent  in failing  to comply with either the terms of 
the account, or her obligations  under the PSRs to take all reasonable steps  to keep 
her personalised security  details  safe.  In the context that Mrs S thought  she was 
speaking with someone with technical  expertise, from a company she trusted, who 
had seemingly just shown her errors with her other online accounts, I can understand 
why she believed the fraudster, when he said it was necessary for her to log into her 
online banking. And I think  a reasonable person wouldve acted in a similar way.
Ref: DRN448982012-The fraudsters told Mrs S to expect codes from her bank. She says they told her 
these were to show Santander  were authorising what  was going on. So she says 
she wasnt alarmed when she received the text messages from Santander  containing 
the OTPs, and she says she didnt question the wording of the text messages as they 
didnt say that money or any amount would be transferred from the account. I have 
thought about whether the wording of the messages should have alerted Mrs S to 
what was going on. After  all, she thought  the code  was to clear stuff and not to 
amend  a payee. It could be said that Mrs S showed a lack of care by providing the 
fraudster with these  codes. The messages did say, Dont share this code with 
anyone. But it does  not necessarily  follow  that Mrs S was grossly negligent.
-Listening to her conversation with Santander on the day of the fraud,  I dont think she 
fully read the text messages until she was recalling  what had happened. I think  its 
relevant that she said I had a couple of OTPs as he said he was trying to clear  stuff 
off the system but obviously that was how he got into my bank account. Of course, 
thats not how the fraudster got into her bank account; that was achieved  by 
persuading Mrs S to log in herself.  So I think its clear from that call that Mrs S didnt  
understand how the fraudster had accessed  her account.
-With the benefit of hindsight  you might  ask why Mrs S did not question  the wording  of 
the text and heed the warning not to share the code with anyone.  However, I am 
mindful that by the time the messages came through, Mrs S firmly believed that she 
was talking to a representative of a trusted telecoms provider. The fraudster made it 
seem that they were  in contact with Santander   had Santanders authority even  
because they anticipated Mrs S being sent the text messages. She thought  she was 
following instructions  aimed at protecting her bank account. Mrs S says the 
fraudsters told her they needed the code as it was being used to clear stuff of the 
system. In the environment the fraudster created I can understand why she simply 
followed the fraudsters  instructions. Shed  also been on the telephone to the 
fraudster for a significant length of time, was worried about  the security  of her online 
accounts, and felt pressure to act. In similar circumstances I think  a reasonable 
person wouldve acted in the same way that Mrs S did here.
-Santanders Terms and Conditions at 13.3 make it clear  that it bears  the 
responsibility for proving that Mrs S failed with gross negligence to keep her 
personalised security  details safe. Although it has shown that Mrs S logged  into her 
online account whilst the fraudster had access to her computer, and that she gave 
three OTPs  to the fraudster, they havent  persuaded me that her actions fell so far 
below what a reasonable person would do in the circumstances  to amount to gross 
negligence.
I appreciate that the OTPs were a key security tool and Mrs S should not have revealed 
them to the fraudster. But the test for me to consider here is whether Mrs S was grossly 
negligent in failing to comply with the Terms  and Conditions of her account, or to keep her 
personalised security  details safe. In order to be grossly negligent Mrs S needs to have 
shown a very significant degree of carelessness.  Here Mrs S was persuaded to divulge 
security features to a fraudster as part of sophisticated and successful scam. 
Ref: DRN448982013For the reasons  Ive given I think a reasonable Santander customer  may well have  taken the 
same steps  that Mrs S did in sharing the details  the fraudster convinced her to share. This 
was not an obvious risk to a reasonable person in Mrs Ss position because she had been 
socially engineered  into thinking that what she was doing was preventing harm to her 
computer and online accounts. So Im not currently minded to find Mrs S was grossly 
negligent in these circumstances.
additional points  raised  by Mr and Mrs Ss representative
Mr and Mrs Ss rep has said that because he believes Santanders OTP amend payee 
function is flawed  it should bear a substantial  responsibility for this fraud . And hes said that 
in light of this clear failing  by Santander he believes Mr and Mrs S should be awarded a 
significantly higher  rate of interest than they would have received had the money not been  
moved from the account. But its for me to consider the individual  complaint before me to 
determine what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  Having done  that Ive 
found that Santander should return all the money lost through  the scam to Mr and Mrs S, 
plus interest and a compensation payment. So I dont think  I need  to make any further award  
here for the reasons set out by Mr and Mrs Ss rep.
As Ive upheld the complaint I would  usually look to put Mr and Mrs S back  in the position 
they wouldve  been in if things had happened  as they should and to award fair 
compensation. And I can look to compensate Mr and Mrs S for being deprived of money   
that is, not having the money available to use. I can also tell the business to pay interest on 
top of the money award for the period  Mr and Mrs S were out of pocket.
Here Ive awarded the rate of interest  that was paid on the account. Thats  because  
Mr and Mrs Ss money was in a higher paying  interest rate account than other standard  
current accounts. Mr and Mrs Ss representative has said they didnt have  any specific  plans 
for the money but lost out on the opportunity  to invest. But Mr and Mrs S havent  said or 
provided me with anything  to suggest they had any plans for this money or had to borrow 
money or had done so at a higher rate of interest to cover  their losses  here. Ive also 
considered that the money had been in the account  for some  time prior to the fraud. Taking 
all of this into account Im persuaded its likely the money wouldve remained in that account  
if the fraud  had not occurred so Im satisfied the account interest rate is the right award here. 
Mr and Mrs S rep also says they had to live for nearly two years not knowing if they would 
ever recover  their money and I accept  that would have caused them some upset. This is why 
I made  a recommendation for compensation of £300, which  I think is fair in the 
circumstances of the complaint. 
putting things right
For the reasons  given,  I do not think it was fair and reasonable for Santander not to refund 
the amount stolen  from Mr and Mrs Ss joint account.
I now direct  Santander to:
-refund  Mr and Mrs Ss joint account with £9,760; and 
-pay interest on that amount at the respective account interest rates,  from the date of 
the withdrawals to the date of settlement. If Santander deducts tax from the interest 
Ref: DRN448982014element of this award, it should provide Mr and Mrs S with the appropriate tax 
deduction certificate. 
-This has been a very worrying time for Mr and Mrs S. Mrs S was the direct victim of 
the scam  and was clearly distressed on the two occasions  Santander called her to 
discuss the events  with her. Having considered the matter as a whole and the impact 
Mr S and in particular Mrs S have  described, I think it would be fair for Santander to 
pay Mr and Mrs S a further £300 compensation for the trouble and upset they 
experienced.
Under PSR 2009,  and the Terms and Conditions of the account which reflect that legislation,  
Santander is entitled to hold Mr and Mrs S responsible for the first £50 of their loss. If it 
intends to do this, it can take this amount from the £9,760 before adding the interest  
element. 
my final decision
As set out above I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against Santander  UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2019.
Sophia Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4489820