K820x#14complaint
Mr L1, represented  by Mr L2, complains  that the car he acquired through a conditional sale 
agreement with Vauxhall Finance plc was mis-sold. Mr L2 says that Mr L1 did not have the 
capacity at the time of the agreement  to make an informed decision. He also says that 
excessive charges were  applied after termination.
background
Mr L1 entered into a finance  agreement with Vauxhall Finance in March  2015. At the same 
time he also agreed to acquire a number  of additional products. Mr L2 says that at this time,  
Mr L1 did not have  the mental  capacity to understand what  he was acquiring.  Mr L2 says 
Mr L1 part exchanged  a good car as part of the agreement and when asked why, he couldn't 
remember. Mr L1 was then told he should not drive unaccompanied and after several 
months he was diagnosed  with dementia  and was told he was no longer fit to drive.
Mr L2 says he contacted  Vauxhall Finance which would not discuss the issue with him until 
Mr L1 had provided authorisation. He says it then delayed sending  out the authorisation form 
and refused to accept  the returned form as it had both Mr L2 and another  family member on 
it.
Mr L2 decided to return the car but Mr L1 was then charged almost £3,000 as a balance.  
This included repair  costs of £1,718 which Mr L2 disputed  as the car had hardly  been  driven  
and was in good condition. Mr L2 says that he then discovered Mr L1 had acquired a 
number of insurance products which Vauxhall  Finance  had not made Mr L2 aware of.
Vauxhall Finance  did not uphold this complaint. It says that it was not present when the 
discussion about the car and additional products took place as these occurred with the 
dealer. It says that it assesses the information provided against  its lending criteria and if the 
criteria is met then the finance is provided.  It noted  that it could not discriminate based on 
Mr L1s age.
In regard to the charges, Vauxhall  Finance says that when the agreement  was set up the 
money was provided  by the dealer for the insurance  products and that this amount was 
incorporated into Mr L1s agreement. It says that the charges for damage were  based on an 
inspection that was carried out as part of the termination process. It says that following a 
review of the charges it offered a 50% reduction to the damage charges amount. It then 
offered to reduce this amount further  to £430.
Our investigator said that it can be difficult to establish whether a mis-sale has occurred. She 
did think that repayments should  be refunded from 24 February up to the time when the car 
was sold due to the delays in the voluntary termination taking place.
In regard to the charges for damage, our investigator thought  that Vauxhall Finance had 
made a fair offer by reducing the initial charges  to £430. And in regard to the insurances  she 
noted that these  had been paid in full by Vauxhall  Finance  at the start of the agreement and 
so the full outstanding  amount  was now payable. However she recommended that Vauxhall 
Finance consider whether  a proportionate rebate for the GAP and warranty  insurance would 
be possible.
Ref: DRN44166392Vauxhall Finance  did not accept out investigator's  view. It said that it did not have formal 
confirmation of the termination of the agreement until 2 August 2017. It also said that there 
was no interest rebate  available on the insurance  products.
Mr L2 made  the following  points in response to our investigator's  view:
1.Sale of insurance  products: Mr L2 says that Mr L1 could have claimed  under his regular 
car insurance for the items he acquired  additional insurance for. He also said that Mr L1 
was sold 'vehicle excise duty (car tax 12 months)' when he did not need this as he 
received disability allowance and so was exempt. Mr L2 says that Mr L1 was not able to 
make rational decisions at the time these products  were acquired and there were visible 
symptoms of his condition at the time.  Mr L2 said it had taken him and another family 
member time to go through all the aspects of the agreement.
2.Interest rebate and charges: Mr L2 says it was delays by Vauxhall Finance and not him 
that delayed the voluntary termination process. He said the agreement described the 
insurances as goods and that Vauxhall  Finance  should not be able to charge interest  on 
these after the car had been  returned. Mr L2 asked for clarification about the amount the 
car was sold for after it was returned  as he believed it to be £2,400.  He said that 
damages could  not be claimed above  the value of the agreement and so the sale of the 
car and deduction  for interest  meant  the only claim was the value left and that damages 
were irrelevant.  He said that Vauxhall Finance sold the car before the claim was made  
meaning Mr L1 was unable to challenge  it.
3.Timing of issues raised:  Mr L2 says that he could not raise the issues sooner due to his 
work commitments and the need  to become a full time carer for his parents. He says this 
has affected his health and he has had to end his career  because  of the need to be a 
carer.
4.Establishing a mis-sale: Mr L2 accepted that it can be hard to establish when a mis-sale 
has occurred. But he said that on the balance of probability, given the number  of 
products Mr L1 purchased, it suggested  the sales person was not interested  in ensuring 
whether Mr L1 was understanding what he was acquiring.
my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
customers cannot be discriminated  against  due to their age;
I didnt have enough evidence to say that the dealer should  have  been  aware  that Mr L1 
did not have the capacity to enter  into the agreement in March 2015;
Mr L1 acquired a number of additional products and I noted the comments  made 
especially in regard  to Mr L1 not getting any benefit  from some of the products. But, as 
the items  would  have  been of benefit  to customers and could have benefitted Mr L1 I 
didnt find it unusual  that they were  offered and didnt find I had enough to say they were 
mis-sold;
I couldnt say the delays  were  due to Vauxhall Finance. I noted that it didn't accept the 
authorisation form in February 2017  but it did then send  out further forms which  were  not 
returned until April 2017. It was then a few months later that the voluntary termination 
Ref: DRN44166393paperwork was provided. So, had the February  2017 authorisation form been accepted, I 
didnt think this would have made  a material difference  in the overall  timing  of the 
termination. Because of this I did not find that Vauxhall Finance should  be required to 
refund payments made  from this date;
the inspection  report noted the items  missing  along with the damage.  I noted the 
comment about the MOT but this recorded  the bumper mounting plate being  insecure 
and did not comment  on a scratch and so I couldnt  say the scratch  was present at the 
point of supply;
Vauxhall Finance  reduced the damage  charges to £430. Based on what  I had seen I 
didnt find that I could say this was unfair.  Mr L1 had use of the car and so it was not 
unreasonable to accept  that that some damage occurred while  in his possession;
the insurances were  acquired at the point of supply and were included in the agreement.  
As I didnt find I had enough evidence to say these were  mis-sold I didnt find that I could 
require Vauxhall  Finance  to remove the outstanding liability.
Neither party provided any additional information in response to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to establish whether Vauxhall Finance has done anything wrong, and if so, what  it 
should do to put things  right. Vauxhall  Finance does have a responsibility under the 
regulations if there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the dealer  as the dealer 
is acting as an agent of the finance  provider.
As I noted  in my provisional decision, I do not find that I can say Vauxhall  Finance should 
have been reasonably aware that Mr L1 did not have the capacity to enter into the 
agreements at the time they were supplied.  Because of this I do not uphold this part of the 
complaint.
I also find that I cant say the reduced  damage charges were unreasonable.
In regard to the delays  in the car being returned I understand why these had happened but I 
do not find that Vauxhall Finance can be held responsible for these.  I note the issue  
regarding the authorisation form but based on the other evidence I do not think that this had 
a material impact on the overall timing.
As no further  information was provided  in response to my provisional decision,  my decision 
has not changed. 
I know this decision will come as a disappointment. I also sympathise with the difficulties 
Mr L1 is experiencing  and the impact  this has on his family. However, in this case  I do not 
find that I have enough  evidence to uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN44166394my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L1 to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4416639