K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained that Healthsaver  Ltd wrongly advised her that if she left a group 
private medical insurance policy  she would later be able to re-join  on the same  terms.
background
Mrs H was a member  of a group private medical insurance policy through  Healthsaver. The 
policy was underwritten by a particular insurer which Ill call Insurer A.
In advance of the 2016  renewal,  Healthsaver  wrote to its members, including  Mrs H, to 
explain it had decided  to switch the underwriting of its scheme  to another  insurer,  which  Ill 
call Insurer B. It recommended  that all members  transfer their cover to Insurer B and 
explained that no new underwriting would be required.
Mrs H, who had been diagnosed with cancer  some years before and was still receiving  
treatment for this, agreed to the transfer.  However, she quickly  found that dealing  with 
Insurer B over her claims for treatment was stressful. She raised this with Healthsaver.  It 
said that if she preferred,  she could  go back  to being insured as she was by Insurer  A. Mrs H 
agreed to this.
When the policy was due to renew in 2017, Insurer  A told Mrs H it was making changes to 
the policy which would result in a significant increase in her premium. Mrs H approached 
Healthsaver and asked to switch  back  to Insurer B. Healthsaver said this was no longer 
possible without undergoing fresh underwriting, which would  mean that treatment for her 
cancer would  be excluded.
Mrs H complained that when she switched back to Insurer A, Healthsaver had told her she 
could transfer  back to Insurer B in a years time if she wished without undergoing fresh  
underwriting. She said if shed understood this wasnt  the case, she would never have 
transferred back to Insurer A. Healthsaver denied giving Mrs H wrong information. Mrs H 
therefore complained to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She wasnt 
persuaded that Healthsaver had wrongly  advised Mrs H.
Mrs H didnt accept the investigators findings.  She said none of the literature made clear 
that she would be unable to transfer to Insurer B at a later stage and on the same  terms. 
She maintained that Healthsaver  had assured her over the telephone that a switch back to 
Insurer B on the same terms  would  be possible. She said that she was reliant  on access to 
the latest drugs/treatment to keep her cancer  under control and these werent always  
available through the NHS.  She said in view of this she clearly wouldnt have put herself at 
risk of not having  adequate, affordable private  healthcare. 
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Ref: DRN44504742When Healthsaver wrote to Mrs H in 2016  to explain the change in underwriter  to Insurer B, 
it said:
 we are now recommending that all our existing members transfer into this scheme  from 
their renewal date on 01 September 2016. No new underwriting will be required and all pre-
existing conditions currently covered will continue to be eligible for the enhanced benefits
There is nothing in the letter or accompanying information to suggest  that there would be the 
opportunity to transfer to Insurer B with no new underwriting beyond this date.
The letter had a Frequently Asked Questions sheet attached. This stated:
Q: Can I stay in the [Insurer  A] scheme  if I want?
A: Yes  Currently [Insurer A] are allowing members to stay in the scheme,  but are not 
allowing new members to join. However,  we do not know how long they will continue 
to make the scheme available under these terms, which  is why we are strongly 
recommending that you remain with the main group and transfer to the new scheme.  
I think this makes clear the uncertainty  associated with remaining  with Insurer A.
It seems  that after initially  switching to Insurer B, Mrs H became stressed  by its claims 
handling procedure.  She rang Healthsaver to complain about this. Unfortunately, 
Healthsaver didnt  keep recordings of its telephone calls at this time so all I have to go on is 
what each side has told me.
Healthsaver says it received several  calls from Mrs H complaining about Insurer  Bs service 
and that she was becoming  increasingly distressed. Healthsaver says it explained  to Mrs H 
that because it was less than two months since she left Insurer  As scheme, she could still 
transfer back to it without fresh underwriting if she wished. Mrs H says that Healthsaver 
additionally told her that she would also be able to transfer back to Insurer B without fresh 
underwriting at a later date. Healthsaver  denies it said this.  
Mrs H agreed  to the switch back to Insurer A. Insurer  B wrote to her to confirm that her 
policy had been  cancelled. 
In 2017, Insurer  A made the decision  to close the Healthsaver scheme.  It was then that 
Mrs H discovered  she couldnt transfer  back to Insurer  B without losing cover for existing 
conditions. Insurer A eventually offered Mrs H terms to continue as an individual 
policyholder, which  Mrs H accepted, but her premium is now subject to a no-claims discount,  
meaning that it could  increase significantly in future years as a result of her ongoing 
treatment.  
It is very unfortunate that Mrs H finds herself  in this situation. I cant  rule out that Healthsaver 
may have  given her wrong advice about her ability to switch  back to Insurer B. However, 
based on all the evidence, I think it is unlikely. Healthsaver has explained that its adviser  
who spoke to Mrs H was very experienced. The adviser has said that it was discussed  
whether Mrs Hs husband, who was also a member  of the scheme,  should  also switch  back  
to Insurer A and he decided against it on the grounds he wanted the security of remaining 
where he was. And there was nothing in the literature which  Mrs H had received which  
should have caused her to believe she would be able to switch  back again  later on the same 
terms.  
Ref: DRN44504743The main  argument  on which  Mrs H relies  is that she obviously wouldnt  have moved away 
from Insurer B unless she had some assurance  about her ability to move back. However, 
Mrs H was clearly  very unhappy  with Insurer Bs service and, according to Healthsaver, was 
complaining that this was beginning to affect her health. In these circumstances, it is 
possible that she made the informed decision to move back  to Insurer  A despite the future 
uncertainty this represented. 
In light of the above, despite my sympathy for Mrs H, I cant  reasonably conclude that 
Healthsaver has done anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4450474