K822xcomplaint
Miss H complains about the valuation esure  Insurance  Limited placed on her car under her 
motor insurance policy  after it was deemed  to be beyond  economical repair.  She wants it to 
offer her £8,000. 
background 
Miss Hs car was found to be a total loss after an accident and so esure  offered her its 
market value which it said was £6,860.  But Miss H said she couldnt replace her car for that. 
She wanted a settlement offer of around  £8,000. She was also unhappy with how esure 
dealt with her claim.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought esure had 
taken into account  the valuations provided by three motor trade guides and made Miss H an 
offer according to our approach. But she thought it should have also fairly  considered  a 
slightly higher valuation provided  by a fourth guide we now use. 
esure agreed to do this and increased  its offer by £51. But Miss H replied that she thought  
esure should offer her £7,100 less her £100  policy excess.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the matters Miss H raised with esure, except for her concern about  her 
cars salvage as this is subject to a separate complaint.  Whilst I appreciate Miss Hs 
frustration and stress, I think that some inconvenience and stress isnt unusual  in making a 
claim. So Ill not consider those points further but Ill concentrate  here on her main concern, 
the valuation of her car. I can understand that Miss H wants  the best possible offer in 
settlement of her claim.
The investigator has explained this services approach  to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers  offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we obtain  valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second  hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive,  largely because their valuations are based  on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available  evidence into account,  for example, engineers  reports.
Miss Hs policy  provides for the market  value of her car at the date of its loss in the case of 
its total loss. The market value is defined as that provided by motor trade guides. 
esure said it obtained valuations for Miss Hs car from three  of the trade guides we use. It 
discounted one of these as the valuation was out of step with the others.  I think  this is in 
keeping with our approach. And it sent Miss H a cheque for the average of the two remaining 
valuations, less her policy  excess,  as an interim payment.  I think  this was fair and 
reasonable as Miss H hadnt yet accepted the settlement and esure was clear  that cashing  
the cheque wouldnt  affect her rights.  
Ref: DRN40382562Our investigator checked the valuations that esure  found.  I can see that she looked for cars 
of the same  make, model, age, mileage and condition as Miss Hs at the date of its loss. 
These confirmed the valuations  found by esure. After the complaint came  to us, esure 
agreed to also consider  a valuation provided by the fourth trade guide we use. This 
increased the average valuation by £51 which esure agreed to pay Miss H. 
I can see that Miss H said shed found similar cars to hers advertised at higher  prices. But 
we dont find advertisements particularly persuasive  as these are essentially asking prices 
and arent  selling prices.  Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide 
evidence of likely retail  selling prices. 
Miss H wanted esure to increase  its offer further.  I can appreciate that shes  found the 
process of making  a claim  stressful. But I think esures offer with the £51 increase is fair and 
reasonable. This is because the valuation  was made  according to our approach  and takes 
into account the four trade guides we use. I dont require esure to increase this any further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to increase 
its settlement offer to Miss H by £51, as its already agreed to do. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 May 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4038256