complaint
Mr C and Mrs G complained about their home insurer  QIC Europe Ltd. They  are unhappy 
that it declined  their claim made when water leaked  through their kitchen ceiling from the 
bathroom above.
background
Mrs G contacted QIC on 13 December 2018  to advise of a leak.  QIC advised it didnt have 
any plumbers to send  to fix the leak  rather Mrs G should arrange for the leak to be fixed 
and it would resolve any water damage  after that.
Mr C and Mrs G called QIC back on 19 December, by this time theyd already had a 
contractor visit their home to assess the damage and provide a report  and estimate for 
repair. The report said that upon taking the ceiling down  the contractor had found that leaks  
from the shower tray and pipes had caused  damage over time. QIC suggested it would need 
to send its own surveyor out, but Mr C and Mrs G said they didnt want to cancel their 
contractor and theyd  previously been told by QIC to just get on with the work and claim for 
the costs afterwards. It was agreed  for photos of the damage to be sent for consideration.
Photographs were duly provided and in January 2019 Mr C and Mrs G told QIC the work 
was complete. A final invoice was sent to QIC for £9,156.60 (including VAT) of which
Mr C and Mrs G were asking QIC to pay £6,348.60.  They accepted the shortfall was for 
them to pay for uninsured  work. QIC asked for some more detail about the loss and costs  
incurred.
On 1 February 2019, having considered everything, QIC said it was declining  the claim in its 
entirety. It drew attention  to the policy  exclusions  regarding faulty  sealant  and gradually 
occurring damage.  It explained why the photos  of the damage showed the water damage 
had most  likely occurred  due to faulty sealant.
Mr C and Mrs G were unhappy with this finding.  They said if that was the case  QIC could 
have declined the claim much earlier. They said theyd agreed to extra work being done,  at a 
cost of £2,808  (including VAT), because they understood QIC would be covering the cost of 
the water  damage.
In a final response dated 6 February 2019 QIC explained that it had needed to gather all 
relevant information  before passing  the claim to its surveyor  for a decision to be made.  QIC 
went on to say, regarding  the claim, that there were several indicators which  showed the 
damage claimed for had resulted from faulty sealant, and so was excluded from cover. It felt 
its decline had been reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr C and Mrs G remained  unhappy. Having obtained a further report from their contractor  
they complained  to this service. The new report said that when the ceiling was taken down 
water was found to be escaping  from the shower  trap. Our investigator  considered  the 
complaint and concluded that, in his view, the damage had likely  resulted from a leaking 
pipe. He said QIC should accept the claim and pay for water  damage.
QIC didnt agree with this outcome and explained  why. Our investigator told QIC he didnt 
agree with it and his view remained that the complaint  should  be upheld.  The complaint was 
passed to me for a decision  to be made.
I felt QICs decline of the claim had been  fair and reasonable.  I issued a provisional decision 
to explain my view and to give both parties  the chance to respond. QIC said it accepted my 
Ref: DRN4836813findings. Mr C and Mrs G said they were disappointed by them
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I said provisionally:
It would be very unusual  for an insurer to advise to go ahead  with repair  work.  An insurer  
will usually advise that a leak is traced  and stopped  but that is not the same as 
reinstatement repairs, necessary  to deal with the water damage. But I can understand that 
Mr C and Mrs G may not have appreciated the difference.
I also note though that once they began trying  to find the source  of the leak it became 
apparent that there was significant  damage to joists in the ceiling above the kitchen  and 
not just due to rot caused by water damage. So I can understand that theyd want  to press  
on with repairs, particularly having  found a contractor who could complete the work  as 
quickly as it did. But I havent seen anything that makes  me think  QIC misled  Mr C and
Mrs G into thinking it was definitely going to cover  their repair  costs.  And I think the nature of 
the damage would have  meant that Mr C and Mrs G would likely have forged on with all of it 
anyway  even  had QIC told them earlier it was declining their claim.
It was largely the evidence in the photos  that gave  QIC cause to decline the claim. It had 
been given the photos quite early on in the claim but it was QICs surveyor  that 
recommended the claim was declined. The claim wasnt passed to the surveyor to review  
until all the potentially relevant evidence QIC had asked for had been provided.  With 
hindsight, knowing now how clearly the photos support the decline of the claim, I can see 
why its frustrating that they werent  assessed  earlier. But generally a surveyor needs to see 
everything and wed expect an insurer not to jump to a claim decline based on incomplete 
information. When an insurer does  that its decline can be flawed and, therefore,  unfair.  So
I cant reasonably blame QIC for waiting to assess  everything together. And, as I said above, 
I dont think that delay prejudiced Mr C and Mrs G as, in my view,  theyd likely have gone 
ahead with the work anyway.
Ref: DRN4836813K820x#14Turning to the heart of the complaint, the decline of the claim, I cant  ignore  the very 
specific and reasoned detail provided by the surveyor  which  explains why, in his expert 
view, the damage  present has most likely  been  caused by water escaping  the seals 
around the shower. I note he also considered the possibility of a leak coming from the 
shower trap and wasnt persuaded  this had likely caused any damage.
Im aware that Mr C and Mrs G have been  given a bulleted list of reasons for QICs 
decline, along with supporting photographs. I dont  intend to reproduce  all that data here.  
But, in summary, the photos show water has seeped into the floor and walls around  the 
edge of the shower in line with the area of faulty sealant and it has tracked  across  the 
floor towards the position of the shower trap. Further, the rot in the joists is more  prolific in 
the area of the sealant, diminishing in severity the further the timber is from the edge of 
the wall. I find the surveyors reasoning,  when matched with the photographs,  is 
persuasive.
QICs surveyor did also say at one time that a leak from a shower trap would likely  cause 
a sudden and severe deluge  of water through the ceiling  below.  Mr C and Mrs G have  
said that is exactly what happened, and so QIC should at least pay for the kitchen ceiling 
repair and decoration work which they undertook. QIC has responded to this suggestion 
by stating that the photos of the trap and floor above in place, dont evidence  any sign of a 
volume of water having escaped the trap.
Whilst the surveyor says he doesnt  think the trap leaked, Mr C and Mrs Gs contractor  
said that is what it found when the ceiling was taken down. But I bear in mind  something 
slightly different was said around  the time the work was actually completed. In any event 
though QICs  surveyors  original comment was that a leak from the trap would have been 
immediately apparent, and Mr C and Mrs G believe this is what  happened  and alerted 
them to the other damage. So Ive considered  then whether the leak from the trap should 
mean that QIC reasonably has to pay Mr C and Mrs G for the ceiling and decorative 
reinstatement work  they undertook.
Considering the photos and the report  from Mr C and Mrs Gs contractor it seems clear 
that the boarding, in the area of the sealant, and coming away  from that area, was 
soaked. The joists  were also saturated. The contractor initially  reported  that this was due 
to water leaking over the long term. With such an amount of moisture  in the ceiling void 
already, I find it difficult to accept that the ceiling  wasnt compromised as well, even  if no 
water had come through it until the point the damage was noticed  on 13 December 2018. 
Which means that even  if the trap released a volume of water at that time which was 
suddenly noticeable,  that water, in my view, is unlikely to have caused any damage to the 
ceiling because it was likely already suffering from long-term exposure to water  and 
moisture. Im also mindful that, in order to fix the joists damaged  by long-term  exposure  to 
water, and the joists damaged by other means, as identified by the contractor, the ceiling 
would likely  have needed to come down anyway.  So Im not persuaded it would be 
reasonable to make  QIC pay anything to Mr C and Mrs G.
Mr C and Mrs G said that a key part of my decision seemed to be what  had been said in 
the phone  call when  the claim was notified.  They said it was difficult  to accept QICs 
version of that call as Mrs G remembers being  told to specifically go ahead with repairs, 
and the leak had already  been  found  as the ceiling had collapsed exposing the leaking 
shower trap, so no work  to trace the leak was needed. Mr C explained that he believes 
that QIC in fact made an unusual claim decision to accept the claim early because  that 
Ref: DRN48368135took into account the difficult position the family was in and that savings against moving 
the family  into alternative accommodation would be made. Mr C said the claim calls 
should be listened to.
Whilst I did refer in my provisional  findings  to what I thought had likely occurred during the 
claim call, I went  on to explain why any misunderstanding which may or may not have 
occurred wasnt key to what  happened in respect of what work was completed.  I note that 
Mr C now says the ceiling had collapsed and the leak was exposed  but that appears to 
contradict the previous evidence provided  by the contractor  Mr C and Mrs G had 
employed. At the time of the leak the contractor, in its estimate for work dated 
19 December 2018, reported:
Whilst we were removing the kitchen ceiling, we found that a leak from the shower tray 
and pipe had overtime caused [damage].
And in a letter dated 19 February 2019  the contractor said:
we were on site and there was water  escaping from the trap we found when we 
removed the ceiling.
So Im not persuaded that it was clear, when the claim was first notified  to QIC, where the 
leak was coming from or what  was needed  to fix it. In any event, I remain  of the view that 
given the damage  which  was found at the property, along with the circumstances at the 
time, Mr C and Mrs G would always have forged ahead with completing  all of the repairs  
regardless of what QIC told them in the early stages of the claim about  its liability.  In my 
view it was perfectly reasonable for QIC to want to assess the damage before making any 
settlement and, as I explained provisionally,  I think its decision to decline the claim rather  
than make any settlement  for it at all, was fair and reasonable. 
My provisional findings havent changed.  They now form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against QIC Europe  Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr C and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4836813