K822xcomplaint
Mr H is unhappy HSBC  Bank Plc has re-debited two payments from his account  which  relate 
to two chargebacks  that he thinks shouldve been successful. 
background 
In April 2017, Mr H used  his debit card to make two payments totalling £7,130 towards a 
second-hand car. 
In May 2017, Mr H contacted HSBC to raise  chargeback claims for the two payments. 
He explained  the car has faults  and isnt fit for purpose. 
Mr H completed  the declaration form for the dispute  in June 2017. HSBC struggled to locate 
the electronic  copies  that Mr H submitted, but eventually did so during a phone call on 
27 July 2017.  The banks advisor  explained that he would take the paperwork forward  and 
raise the chargeback. HSBC put forward a chargeback claim for not as described or 
defective merchandise. 
On 1 August  2017, Mr H made a complaint  about how the chargeback had been handled. 
He was disappointed that HSBC had asked him to provide information that it already had 
and that hed been promised a refund but it hadnt happened. 
On 3 August  2017, HSBC credited the two payments back  to Mr Hs current  account. 
They appeared on his statement as MYDISPUTE CREDIT.
The chargeback claim was defended. The merchant said the car had been  bought  in seen 
condition and that Mr H had been given  the opportunity to examine it before  he bought it. 
On 26 September  2017, HSBC issued its final response to Mr Hs complaint. It apologised 
for the delay  in crediting  the payments into his account and paid him £75 compensation. 
It didnt mention anything  about the chargeback process or what  the next steps were.
On the same  day, HSBC phoned  Mr H to let him know  the chargeback hadnt succeeded. 
Mr H said that the faults with the car wouldnt have been visible  on the day that he bought it. 
He added that the car was on his drive and he wanted to charge the merchant for storage 
costs. HSBCs notes of the call say it would raise  the matter again  and that the merchant has 
30 days to respond.  The notes say that if the claim is declined, HSBC  will let Mr H know.  
On 28 September,  the attempt to raise  the matter again was declined  at pre-arbitration.  
But nothing further happened until 12 December 2017 when HSBC says it wrote to Mr H to 
explain that the pre-arbitration claim had been rejected. It said that it wasnt able to assist 
him any further and that it would debit £7,130 from his account on or shortly after 
19 December 2017. Mr H says he never  received this letter. 
On 2 January  2018, HSBC took the money  back from Mr Hs current account.  Mr H explains 
that he wasnt expecting  this to happen  and that hes had to borrow money  to put the 
account back into credit. 
Mr H complained to us. Our investigator  looked  into things and said that HSBC  hadnt acted 
unfairly because  it had taken the chargeback as far as it could. 
Ref: DRN44723532Mr H disagreed. He said that HSBC  had made  the decision  to decline the claim because the 
chargeback wasnt  taken to arbitration.  He asked for an ombudsman to review  matters.
When the case was passed to me, I asked HSBC  for more  information about what  Mr H was 
told when the chargeback  was first raised  and when it was defended. I asked HSBC whether 
there had been  any contact between the parties at all between the end of September  2017  
when the pre-arbitration outcome was known and when Mr Hs account was debited. 
HSBC accepted there had been a delay but felt nothing  had confirmed  or implied  that the 
money had been  permanently  refunded to Mr H. But it offered £100  compensation for the 
delay in confirming  pre-arbitration  had been declined. 
Mr H didnt want to accept  HSBCs offer. He felt HSBC had admitted it was in the wrong  by 
offering compensation. He pointed out that the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 allows  him to 
reject the car. He explained  that he needs to pay back  the money he borrowed to put his 
account back in order and that its placing a huge financial burden on him and his family. 
my provisional decision
I then made  a provisional decision outlining what I thought. This is what  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im currently not minded 
to say that HSBC  has to refund the payments he made towards the car. So Ill explain why. 
what obligations does  HSBC have to Mr H in this situation?
Its clear from everything that Mr H has said that hes not satisfied with the car he paid 
towards using his Visa debit card.  Hes pointed out that the law is on his side and that hes 
entitled to reject the car. I accept that the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 gives  a consumer 
rights against a seller.  But HSBC  isnt obliged to help Mr H enforce his rights  under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 in the same way a court might. The only way that HSBC  can help 
Mr H is through the chargeback process. Its important to note that what the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 requires  and what  is required under the chargeback process  are two 
different things. My role is to look at whether HSBC has done  anything wrong in the way that 
it handled the chargeback.
what is a chargeback?
A chargeback is the process by which payment settlement disputes  are resolved between 
card issuers  and merchants, under the relevant  card scheme  rules.  
What this means here is that HSBC  can in some circumstances  ask for a transaction  to be 
reversed if theres a problem with the goods or services supplied by the merchant Mr H paid.
Ref: DRN44723533But the chargeback process  doesnt give consumers legal rights  and it isnt guaranteed to 
result in a refund. It all depends on what the merchant says in response  to the request the 
bank submits. 
There first has to be a right to apply  for a chargeback under the card scheme rules. And Id 
consider it to be good practice for HSBC to raise  a chargeback if it would have a good  
chance of being successful. 
Its important to note that chargebacks are decided  based on the card scheme's rules, not 
the relative merits of a cardholder/merchant dispute. So its not for HSBC   or me  to 
decide whether  Mr H should  be allowed to reject the car and have his money  back. HSBCs 
role is to raise the appropriate chargeback, and consider whether any filed defence complies 
with the relevant chargeback rules.  From what Ive seen, thats  what  HSBC did here-  
although it was slow to raise the chargeback  and it didnt communicate its ultimate outcome 
in good time.  
HSBC raised a chargeback under reason code 53- goods not as described or defective. 
But the merchants  response suggested that it didnt agree with that. Its defence was enough 
to mean  the chargeback didnt succeed.  
Where the merchant challenges a chargeback, a bank doesnt have to carry out a detailed 
investigation into what actually happened to decide  which party deserves the money.  In fact, 
most banks  wont take a chargeback any further  if its defended. But HSBC  did put forward  
Mr Hs position at a pre-arbitration stage, where  it was declined again.  HSBC gets to choose 
whether it takes  a matter further  to arbitration or not. In this case it decided not to take the 
dispute any further because it didnt consider it had a reasonable prospect of succeeding.  
And I cant say that its made any mistake or acted incorrectly by making that decision.  
the way HSBC has administered the chargeback
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Im currently not minded to think  that the chargeback  
wouldve succeeded if HSBC had acted differently. HSBCs failure here was not being 
clearer with Mr H about how the chargeback process worked. 
From the call recordings that Ive listened to and the conversations  that Ive had with Mr H, 
its clear he didnt know that the refund  was potentially  temporary  and ultimately dependent 
upon the merchants banks response.  He thought that hed been given the money  back 
because the merchant had agreed to it and the conversations with the bank were ongoing as 
he was still out of pocket for the part-exchanged value of his old car. 
In the call recording from 27 July 2017  when HSBC  locates  Mr Hs declaration form, the 
banks advisor says the refund will go back onto his account in the next three to four working  
days. He explains  that it will appear on his statement as a credit and that its subject  to 
investigation. But he offers  no further  elaboration or clarification  as to exactly what the 
implications of this are. 
Its fair to say that chargebacks are unfamiliar territory for most consumers. I dont think  Mr H 
wouldve appreciated that what  the advisor  was saying was to warn him that the money  
could be taken back again. Given the amount of money involved,  I think HSBC  shouldve 
told Mr H what  could happen  in much plainer language than it did. 
Ref: DRN44723534When HSBC responded  to Mr Hs complaint, its final response  letter  wasnt  very detailed. 
It simply said that it was sorry about the delay in crediting the disputed amount into his 
account whilst it investigated and that it had credited  £75 into his account to make up for the 
inconvenience caused. So I can see why Mr H might have thought that this was the end of 
the matter. 
Its also very disappointing that HSBC didnt realise  that it hadnt  told Mr H what had 
happened at the pre-arbitration stage  until December 2017. Mr H had a very nasty shock  
when HSBC ultimately took the money back out of his account on 2 January 2018.  
Ive thought about whether it was too late for HSBC to take the money back because of how 
much time had passed. The notes that Ive seen from the pre-arbitration  stage say that the 
merchant has 30 days to respond and that HSBC will let Mr H know  if the claim has been 
declined. As Mr H hadnt heard anything more from HSBC by 26 October, I can see why he 
mightve assumed  that the pre-arbitration  had been successful. 
But I dont think Mr Hs position has changed as a result of HSBCs delay. I cant overlook 
the fact it was always a possibility  that the chargeback could be defended and the money  
taken back, albeit it Mr H didnt realise this. 
By 9 September when the chargeback was initially defended, around  two thirds of the money 
that had been credited back had been  used. The balance of Mr Hs account  was similar at 
the time the pre-arbitration attempt was declined at the end of September  and by 26 October 
when the outcome of the pre-arbitration attempt shouldve  been communicated. So Im not 
persuaded that Mr H would be in vastly different position to the one hes in now if HSBC  had 
told him what had happened  with the pre-arbitration when it shouldve.
Mr Hs strength of feeling about all thats  gone  on is clear.  I can see that all of this has been 
a truly awful  experience that has caused strain and worry for him. Hes ended up with a car 
that he cant use and hes had to find a considerable amount of money to restore the positon 
of his account at short  notice. But I cant fairly and reasonably ask HSBC to return  the 
money to Mr H in circumstances where  the chargeback wouldnt have succeeded. 
Having said that, its clear from everything  that Ive described that the way HSBC has 
administered the chargeback process  has made a difficult situation much worse. I dont feel 
the £75 compensation it paid for the six week delay in locating Mr Hs declaration form or the 
further £100 it has offered more recently  for the delay in communicating  the pre-arbitration  
outcome really recognise the impact  thats  been  caused to him. 
Mr H has been substantially inconvenienced.  Its clear this situation was causing him a lot of 
stress. A six week  delay  before the chargeback was submitted didnt help matters  and the 
lack of clarity  around what was going  to happen  has caused considerable confusion. 
Whilst I cant see that HSBC has done anything which has prejudiced Mr Hs chances of the 
chargeback being successful,  I dont think its been  clear enough in its explanations around 
how the chargeback  process works.  This has been  further compounded  by the time it took 
for HSBC to tell Mr H the ultimate outcome of the claim. As a result, I currently feel 
compensation of £500 overall  would  be more appropriate. 
I know Mr H will be disappointed with my proposed outcome. He might like to get advice  
about any further avenues he might have  available against other parties connected to this 
matter. 
Ref: DRN44723535responses to my provisional  decision  
HSBC agreed to the total of £500 compensation Id put forward.
Mr H didnt. He said that my provisional decision must prove an element of wrong doing 
because Id awarded compensation. He said that HSBC had done a lot of things wrong and 
needed to be held accountable for it. He asked for call recordings  and asked if Id seen the 
documents hed provided to HSBC about  the faults with the car. 
Mr H and I spoke on the phone. He explained  that he didnt understand how he could  be in 
this situation now when hed done everything  right. He felt that someone  must be 
responsible for giving him the money  back. He added the HSBC branch manager told him he 
wouldnt get any money back until an investigation  had been done  because it was such a 
large amount. He provided me an email confirming a branch appointment on 17 June 2017. 
Mr H told me that the garage was no longer trading so he wasnt  able to take it to court.  He 
also explained that he couldnt sell the car and recoup some of his losses because  hed 
given the car back to the garage  at the time he got the money back  from HSBC. 
I asked HSBC if it had records of what was discussed at the meeting Mr H says happened  in 
branch. It could confirm  the meeting took place but there were  no notes of what was 
discussed. It suggested that too much time had been passed for the branch staff to 
remember any meaningful  detail about a meeting  that happened well over a year ago. 
HSBC also provided  me with a copy of its branch call log for the day of the meeting. There  
were no calls logged. HSBC explained  that if a branch had called a different department in 
the bank, it wouldve logged the first name  of the branch representative and sort code along  
with the date and time of the call. 
HSBC added that in any case, conversations the branch may have had initially with Mr H 
were superseded by the communication that followed. It felt that Mr H wouldve been aware 
from the conversation  on 27 July 2017 that the money had been refunded to him as a 
temporary credit. 
I confirmed to Mr H that HSBC had provided call recordings from 27 July 2017, 
26 September 2017 and 8 March 2018. I provided  Mr H with copies of the key information Id 
relied on to reach my provisional  decision.  
Mr H looked at the information  and said he was told that because of the large amount of 
money involved, the process would be different. He also said that the merchant came back 
way outside of the timescales to be able to contest the claim. Mr H felt that key evidence  
hadnt been provided. He made a subject access request because he wanted to see all of 
the information that the ombudsman service  held about him. 
After Mr H had received the information from the subject  access request, I asked him if there 
were any further points that hed like me to take into consideration. 
Mr H responded to say that he felt HSBC had withheld communication  where  it admits  
everything hes been saying. He maintained that HSBC had told him that it wouldnt return  
any money until a full investigation  had been  done  due to the large  amount involved.  
He pointed out that HSBC  had agreed  that he wouldnt have known that there  was a problem 
with the fuel tank and that the Consumer Rights Act 2015 allowed him to reject  the vehicle. 
Ref: DRN44723536my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive thought very carefully about what 
Mr H has said,  but its not made  me change my mind.  Ive reached the same conclusions  as 
I did in my provisional decision, and for much  the same reasons. 
Mr H is left facing a difficult situation. I understand that this is a large amount of money  that 
he cant afford to lose. But even after considering everything that hes said,  I still dont think  it 
would be fair and reasonable for me to say that HSBC needs to reimburse the money  Mr H 
has lost. So Ill explain why. 
Mr H has seen everything that HSBC has said and provided to me. He feels that HSBC has 
withheld information that would confirm what hes saying. But I cant  be as sure as I would 
need to be that HSBC  told Mr H the money would  only be returned once an investigation had 
been concluded. The conversation Ive listened to from 27 July 2017 says the refund  would  
go back onto his account in the next three to four working days  and that it was subject to 
investigation, suggesting that the chargeback hadnt been put forward  to the merchant  yet. 
Given that HSBC only located Mr Hs declaration form as part of the same call, I think it was 
apparent that the Mr Hs chargeback request hadnt  been looked at. 
I acknowledge the points Mr H has made  about  the problem with the cars  fuel tank and his 
statutory rights to reject  the vehicle. Mr H is right when he says that the Consumer Rights  
Act 2015 gives a consumer rights against a seller. But as I explained in my provisional  
decision, HSBC  isnt obliged to help Mr H enforce his rights under the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 in the same way a court might. Theres also no contractual  obligation  on HSBC to help 
Mr H to try and recover money from the merchant. So HSBC wasnt  ever going  to be able to 
investigate the underlying  issues  between  Mr H and the merchant that supplied the car. 
The only way that HSBC could try to help Mr H was through the chargeback  process.
As I said in my provisional decision,  I think its good practice for a card issuer to attempt a 
chargeback if theres a fair chance that it may succeed. But no chargeback is a guarantee of 
a customer getting  their money back. When a bank  raises a chargeback, the claim may be 
successfully defended. That doesnt mean that the bank agrees with the merchant or that it 
favours one party over another. It simply means  that the claim has been  defended in line 
with the card scheme rules. 
I have looked  at how HSBC did the chargeback  and if it did anything wrong in how it handled  
it. HSBC raised the chargeback as Id expect it to do, but it was successfully defended. This 
means that the defence  the supplier put forward was enough under the card scheme rules to 
mean the chargeback and the pre-arbitration attempt didnt succeed. 
Mr H says the merchant came back way outside of the timescales to contest the claim. But 
thats not what happened. HSBC took the matter  to pre-arbitration  on 26 September 2017. 
Ive listened to the phone call from that day where the operative agrees that Mr H wouldnt 
have been able to see the fault and says she will take the claim forward again. But the 
dealer responded to reject that further claim on 28 September 2017. HSBC failed to 
communicate that outcome to Mr H until much later on.
Ref: DRN44723537HSBCs failure  in this case was its poor communication  around the chargeback  process. 
It was slow to raise  the chargeback and I still think that it couldve been clearer with Mr H 
around what to expect. In addition, it shouldve communicated  the outcome of the pre-
arbitration attempt  much sooner than it did. But I think £500 is fair compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by these issues. 
I dont think the chargeback wouldve  succeeded  if HSBC had acted differently. It follows that 
I cant fairly and reasonably ask it to return the money to Mr H. 
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC Bank Plc should  pay Mr H £500 compensation for distress  
and inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Claire Marsh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4472353