K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that Coventry Building  Society mis-sold him mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr G originally applied for his mortgage  with Coventry BS in November  1998.  He then 
applied for further  advances  in October 2002 and January 2008. Mr G did not take out PPI at 
any of these times. He did have  three  PPI policies  associated with the lending  - but on each 
occasion he took out the PPI some  months  after the borrowing had been agreed.  The 
policies were set up to cover Mr G for unemployment only.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr G disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint  and Ill explain  why.
Mr G says that, during  the original mortgage  interview in November 1998, he was told that 
he needed to take out PPI to secure  the lowest fixed rate deal. He says the adviser wanted 
him to agree  to it then and there. However, after he protested, she agreed that the 
application could  go through  as long as he committed to taking out the PPI at some point. He 
says he was desperate  to get the fixed rate and so he agreed.
Mr G took out the first PPI policy in September 1999. Coventry  BS doesnt have the separate 
PPI application  form that Mr G completed, which isnt surprising given how much time has 
elapsed. However  its not in dispute  that Mr G did apply for it at this date. Mr Gs complaint is 
that he only applied  for it in September 1999  because of what he was told during the 
mortgage interview in November  1998.
Although Coventry  BS doesnt have the separate PPI documentation,  it has provided copies 
of the paperwork  for the mortgage  itself.  I can see that the application form is a preferred 
intermediary application  form  and that the name of the intermediary (or broker) is detailed 
on the form. This shows that Mr G used  a broker to arrange his mortgage, rather  than 
dealing directly with Coventry BS.
The mortgage application form has a section for PPI that has been left blank. Following the 
submission of the application form to Coventry BS, it sent out a mortgage offer. The 
mortgage offer shows that no PPI has been  requested.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr G has said.  But overall Im not persuaded that he 
was led to believe that he had to agree to PPI in order  to get the lending  agreed. If, as Mr G 
says, he was desperate  to secure the lowest interest rate deal, I might  have expected him to 
agree to take out the PPI at that point, as he says the adviser was originally insisting. But, 
Ref: DRN44568382crucially, I wouldnt be able to hold Coventry BS responsible for this anyway, as it was a 
broker, and not Coventry  BS, that Mr G met with and who arranged  the original mortgage.
From the evidence Ive seen, it was Coventry  BS who sold Mr G the first policy  in September  
1999. It says it sent him the application and relevant documentation in response to a request 
from him. As the policy was not set up until some nine months after the mortgage  had 
already been running, Im not persuaded that Mr G would have been under  the impression 
that the PPI was a condition of the mortgage.  Mr G says he only set up the PPI to ensure 
that future  fixed rate mortgages would be granted going forward. But Mr G cancelled the 
policy in April 2001, which seems  to indicate that he knew he didnt need to maintain the PPI 
as a condition  of the mortgage or to secure ongoing  preferential rates.
Mr G applied for further borrowing in October 2002.  He had no PPI covering  this or the 
original mortgage  until July 2003  when  he again requested information to be sent to him by 
post. Coventry BS does  have a copy of the PPI application form in this instance.  I can see 
that Mr G has chosen cover for unemployment  only. Mr G cancelled this policy in April 2004.
In January 2008 Mr G again applied for further borrowing. Again he did not have PPI at this 
time. And PPI was again  not sold to Mr G alongside the additional  borrowing. It wasnt until 
April 2008 that Mr G applied for PPI to cover all of his borrowing. As far as I know, this policy  
is still in force, although Mr G redeemed  his Coventry BS mortgage in December 2008.
For all three  sales,  Im satisfied that the optional nature of the policies would have been clear 
to Mr G. It seems to me that he decided to buy them, knowing that he didnt have to.
Coventry BS didnt recommend the policies  to Mr G, so it didnt need to ensure that they met 
his needs. But it did need to provide enough information for Mr G to make an informed 
decision about whether or not the policies were right for him.
I consider that Mr G must  have known something  about the PPI  that it would protect his 
repayments if he wasnt working  because I doubt he would  have decided  to buy it without 
knowing anything at all about it.
Mr G has said he would  receive six months  sick pay from his job. But the PPI didnt cover  
Mr G for accident or sickness. He only applied for cover  in the event of unemployment. So it 
appears that Mr G gave some consideration to his existing cover, and therefore what  he 
needed from the policy, at the time of applying.
Mr G has said he had some savings. But having the PPI would have meant he could retain 
any savings or use them  to cover other outgoings at what  would have  been  a difficult  time. 
Mr G has also said that his partner  could have covered his mortgage  repayments. But other 
people cant always be relied  upon as their circumstances can change.
Overall, looking at Mr Gs circumstances, it seems he had a need  for the policy  and could 
have benefitted  from it if he had been  made redundant.
Its possible that Coventry BS didnt  provide  as much  information as it could have about the 
PPI, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr G wasnt affected by any of 
those things  for example he didnt have  a pre-existing medical condition and was in 
permanent employment.  As I consider that he had an interest  in the policies and decided  to 
buy them,  I dont consider that further  information would have caused him to change  his 
mind.
Ref: DRN44568383This means  that Coventry BS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G. But 
Coventry BS does have  to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because:
When the policies  were sold, Coventry  BS expected to get a high level of commission 
and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr G about 
that. Because Coventry BS didnt tell him, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Coventry BS has offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  Coventry Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Coventry Building Society does have to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. It should  do that now if it hasnt 
already done so. I dont award  any further  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4456838