K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim on their 
motor insurance policy.
Mr S is the policyholder  and Mrs S is a named  driver. But, for ease, in this decision I've 
referred to comments from both Mr and Mrs S as being those of Mr S.
background 
Mr S was in an accident which he said wasn't  his fault. He claimed on his policy  and sent 
dash cam footage of the incident to AXA. The other driver said Mr S was to blame for the 
accident. And she had an independent witness who supported her version  of events.  AXA 
decided that Mr S was most likely at fault for the accident. So it settled the other drivers 
claim. It did so on whats known as a without prejudice basis, in other  words  it settled the 
claim but didn't  accept  liability on Mr S behalf.
Mr S wasn't happy with AXAs  decision  or its service and brought  his complaint to us. I 
issued a provisional decision on 1 June 2020.  For ease I've copied my provisional findings  
below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill uphold  it.   
Its important that I make  it clear  that its not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident, 
as ultimately thats a matter for the courts. And, like all motor policies, Mr S policy allows  
AXA to settle claims  as it sees fit. That means  it doesnt require Mr S consent to decide  how 
to settle a claim and it may make a decision that Mr S doesnt agree with. But Ill look to see 
if its done so reasonably.  
Having considered all the evidence very carefully  I don't think  that AXA came to its liability 
conclusion fairly. In arriving at that decision I've seen the dash cam footage and considered 
that alongside satellite images of the road showing its markings. I've also seen  Mr S 
diagram and statement  giving  his version of events. And I've considered the evidence from 
the independent witness. I haven't been  provided with the other driver's version of events 
and I haven't seen  any evidence AXA asked for it.
I've noted  AXA thought Mr S was at fault because  it said he changed  lanes. And if the dash 
cam footage  is considered without looking at or understanding the road layout then it would 
be easy to come to that conclusion. But I think  that conclusion would be wrong as it doesn't  
consider all the available evidence.
It might help if I explain that the incident happened  on a major road intersection which forms 
part of a large roundabout. Mr S and the other driver were on the three lane roundabout (not 
counting a bus lane) and were  stopped  at traffic  lights. The road is marked with which lane 
each driver should be in depending on where  they were intending to travel to. There were 
two such possibilities, which Ill describe as the market road and the motorway road. The 
road markings make it very clear that drivers intending to head towards the market road from 
the roundabout should be in the inside lane or the middle lane of it. The outside (right  hand) 
lane is for drivers heading to the motorway road.  
Ref: DRN44034062So drivers in the inside and middle  lanes  heading to the market road should follow the road 
markings which bear left and merge with the three  lanes of the market  road.  At the point the 
roundabout meets the market road it already  has an inside lane - which is fed from another 
road - which I've called the causeway.  For drivers following the route from the roundabout to 
the market road, the inside lane of the roundabout becomes the middle  lane of the market  
road. And the middle  lane of the roundabout  forms the outside of the three lanes of the 
market road.  And drivers following those lanes  from the roundabout to the market  road - do 
so without crossing a lane heading in the same direction as them.  So they don't turn left or 
right off the roundabout, essentially they drive ahead, albeit  that they actually bear to the left 
in order to do so. 
In this case Mr S was in the middle  lane (of the roundabout) and the other driver was in the 
inside lane. And as I've said above both lanes are marked as being intended for drivers  
heading to the market  road. There are broken white lines which  show  the path of the lanes 
guiding drivers onto the market road.  So I think it was reasonable that as Mr S drove  towards 
the market road he would have expected  the other driver - in the inside lane - to also follow  
the road markings towards  the market road. But thats not what  happened. Instead the other  
driver followed  other road marking - which I've descried below - round to the right heading 
towards the motorway road. That means that she crossed Mr S lane causing the accident to 
happen.
But, as I've said above - on first look - the dash cam footage seems to show  Mr S cutting 
across a lane to his left. Thats  because,  when looking at the satellite images of the road its 
apparent that theres another road, the causeway, that joins the roundabout  to the left of the 
point where Mr S and the other driver  were  stopped  at the traffic lights before heading  
towards the market  road. Access to the roundabout from the causeway  is also controlled by 
traffic lights. The causeway has three lanes with the same two possible destinations; the 
market road and the motorway road.  The lanes on the causeway are also marked to show  
the lanes that each  driver should  be in and should  follow depending  on their destination. 
Drivers heading to the market road should  follow  the inside  lane from the causeway and that 
lane then forms the inside lane of the market road. The causeways middle lane and right 
hand lane are both for drivers heading  towards the motorway  road. But in order  to get to the 
motorway road, those lanes from the causeway, which are also marked by broken while 
lines, cut across the two lanes on the roundabout which  join the market road. So the same 
piece of road can accommodate cars heading in different directions, that is either towards 
the market road from the roundabout or towards the motorway road from the causeway.  
Clearly, the traffic lights would usually prevent cars from travelling in different directions 
being in the same space at the same time.
So, when AXA has looked at the dash cam footage, I think  it's seen Mr S bear left and cross 
some broken  white lines. But the white  lines Mr S has crossed are those marking the path 
from the causeway to the motorway road.  So Mr S hasn't changed lanes  or direction, or cut 
across a lane, hes continued to follow  the lane ahead, although this actually bears to the 
left. But it seems to me that when AXAs considered the dash cam footage its done so 
without considering the road marking and layout.  So its thought  that Mr S was essentially 
turning left and crossing a lane. But that's not what happened at all. He was simply following 
his continuous  lane where it left the roundabout  and then became the market road. 
In contrast  the other driver started  in the lane heading for the market road then turned right 
and followed  the road markings from the causeway heading towards  the motorway road,  as 
that was clearly where she wanted to go. So she was in the wrong  lane from the outset. She 
should have been in the right hand lane of the roundabout from the start. That is the lane 
Ref: DRN44034063which is designated  as being  the route  towards  the motorway road.  But she wasn't. She was 
in the inside lane of the roundabout which, if she had proceeded correctly  would have  taken 
her into the middle  lane of the market  road.  And, because she was in the wrong lane, rather 
than bearing to the left and onto the market road, she followed the wrong broken white  lines 
- which set out the path for traffic  coming from the causeway and heading to the motorway  
road. That path cuts across the lane Mr S was correctly proceeding in joining the market  
road. So when  the other  driver has incorrectly  headed towards  the right and the motorway  
road the accident happened. 
It follows that I don't think AXA properly considered all the evidence. I don't think it could 
have come to the conclusion that it did concerning liability, if it had due regard to the road 
layout. Im aware that there was an independent  witness who supported the other  drivers  
version of events. But, as far as I can see, the independent witness didn't provide a sketch of 
how the accident happened that showed the road layout or his understanding  of where  the 
drivers had come  from. And I haven't seen where he was, in relation to the other  cars, when 
he witnessed the accident. Thats important  as if, for example, he was coming  from the 
causeway, it might have seemed to him that the other driver was in the correct lane when 
heading towards the motorway road, as that was also the way the witness  was heading, 
when in fact she wasn't.  But I can't see that AXA ever questioned this, nor can I see that it 
ever put the dash  cam video,  together  with Mr S version of events, his diagram and pictures 
of the road layout  to the other drivers insurer. If it had its possible the other drivers  insurer 
might not have pursued the claim against AXA and Mr S. And I certainly don't think  it was 
fair that AXA simply settled the claim without making  a robust defence  or, in the specific  
circumstances of his case, seeking  legal advice.
As I've said above, it's not for me to determine  liability and its possible that if AXA had 
continued to defend the claim the matter could still have been  settled by a court in the other 
drivers favour.  Although I think that would be unlikely. Im also aware that, given AXA settled 
the claim on a without prejudice  basis Mr S could still pursue the liability aspect in court  
himself. But as I don't think AXA considered all the evidence fairly and some  considerable 
time has passed since the incident,  I don't think it would be reasonable to expect Mr S to 
start such proceedings  now. Instead,  given AXA didn't treat him fairly, I've thought about 
what it should do to put things right.
I think its unfair that Mr S has been  left in a position where he now has a fault claim 
against his driving  history,  where  a fairer and more  robust defence of the claim might have 
prevented that. So to put things right I think AXA should mark the claim as non-fault on 
internal and external databases. And it should ensure that this claim is treated as non-fault  
for the purposes  of his no claims discount  (NCD).  And, if that results in Mr S renewal 
premiums since  the accident reducing then AXA should refund the difference  in premiums  to 
Mr S. It should add simple  interest to that refund at a rate of 8% a year from the date Mr S 
paid his premiums to the date it reimburses  him. If Mr S has since taken another motor 
insurance policy with a provider other than AXA then it should  give Mr S a letter to confirm  it 
has marked the case as non-fault and amended his NCD to reflect that. Mr S may then give 
that letter to his new insurer to see if hes due any refund of premium  from that insurer. 
Also, while its usual for AXA to charge an excess regardless of fault.  Had things proceeded 
differently Mr S might  have been  able to recover his excess from the other  side.  But that 
hasn't happened. And as I've said above I don't think its reasonable to expect Mr S to incur 
the costs and time of launching  such an action  now.  So I think its fair that AXA also 
reimburses Mr S with a sum equal  to his excess.   
Ref: DRN44034064Also, as AXAs handling of the matter  has clearly been a source of distress  and 
inconvenience for Mr and Mrs S, I think AXA should pay them  £350 compensation to 
address that. That's because that sum is in line with compensation awards we make  in 
cases of similar seriousness.
The parties were invited to comment on my provisional findings. Mr and Mrs S accepted  my 
provisional decision. AXA didnt provide any further  comments.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im going to uphold it. 
As neither Mr and Mrs S nor AXA objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to 
change my findings.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Mark the accident as non-fault against Mr S driving history on all internal and 
external databases.
Adjust Mr S NCD to reflect the non-fault status  of the claim.
Recalculate any renewal premium  Mr S paid to AXA to reflect the claim as non fault 
and with NCD adjusted  accordingly. If Mr S is due a refund AXA should add simple 
interest to that sum from that date Mr S paid the premium(s) until the date AXA 
refunds him.1
If Mr S has taken  out a motor  insurance policy with another  provider since  then, AXA 
should provide  Mr S with a letter to confirm  that its marked the claim as non-fault and 
adjusted his NCD accordingly.
Reimburse Mr S excess.
Pay Mr and Mrs S £350 compensation for their distress and inconvenience. It should 
pay the compensation within  28 days of us telling it that Mr and Mrs S have accepted 
my final decision.  If it pays later than this, it must  also pay interest on that amount 
from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 August  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If AXA considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give them  a certificate  
showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN4403406