K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold Mrs A payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2008.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs A disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Mrs As comments. However, Ive decided  not to uphold this 
complaint. I will explain  why.
Mrs A has said that Nationwide recommended the PPI to her, and that his recommendation 
was unsuitable  because of the benefits she received through her employment.  She says the 
documents from the time show that the PPI was recommended  by the adviser.  This was 
following a financial review on the same day she applied for a mortgage.  However  Ive 
looked at the recommendation  and its not for PPI. Its instead  for income protection  
insurance (and for life and critical illness insurance  Mortgage  Decreasing Term
with Critical Illness Cover). The income  protection insurance was to give Mrs A a source of 
income after her own pay was reduced or stopped due to sickness.
But the PPI is something  different. It is an insurance  to cover the monthly cost of your 
mortgage if you fall sick or lose your job. PPI isnt mentioned in the recommendation. Instead 
it was something offered  as part of the mortgage application. It looks  to me that it was 
presented as a choice,  and that it wasnt recommended as suited to Mrs As particular 
needs. Instead the cost was set out with a reasonable indication of the benefits   and so I 
think Mrs A would have known how much it cost,  and it was up to her decide if it was 
suitable for her.
Mrs A has said she was put under pressure to accept the insurance   though it seems this 
was to accept the insurances actually recommended and not necessarily the PPI. But even if 
it was about the PPI, Id need  stronger  evidence of what the adviser said and whether this 
was actually overstepping the mark  that is, between strongly pointing  out the benefits, and 
making someone feel they had no real choice. So many years later, its unlikely  that enough 
clear evidence would be available. 
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs A would  have been affected by any of these. Its likely she was eligible for the 
policy, and shed be paying for it monthly, so she could cancel it at any time without further  
cost if her situation changed.
Ref: DRN44081132my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4408113