K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) was 
irresponsible to lend him money.
background
Mr M took out 47 Sunny loans between November  2015 and April 2018. Theyve all been 
repaid. Mr M mainly  says this ongoing  lending caused him a lot of stress  and worry. He told 
us he was stuck in a cycle  of borrowing and struggled to maintain his priority expenses.
After initially telling Mr M that it didnt uphold his complaint at all, Sunny  reviewed  its position  
and then offered  to uphold his complaint from loan 20 onwards.  So our adjudicator looked at 
Mr Ms complaint on this basis.
Our adjudicator thought that Sunnys offer was fair in respect  of the loans it offered to uphold 
- but that it didnt  go far enough. In summary, she thought that it was reasonable of Sunny to 
agree the first six loans - but that Sunny shouldnt have agreed loans 7 to 14  although she 
thought that loans 15 through to 19 hadnt  been  unfairly lent. So our adjudicator 
recommended that in addition to doing what it had offered, Sunny should  also refund all 
interest and charges that Mr M had paid on loans 7 to 14. And the adjudicator said Sunny 
should remove any information about loans  7 to 14 from Mr Ms credit  file.
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators  recommendation and it withdrew  its earlier offer 
and said instead  that it was only willing to uphold Mr Ms complaint from loan 23 onwards.
Mr M didnt  accept this offer. The complaint  came  to me to decide. I issued a provisional  
decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These  factors  
include:
    the lower  a customers  income  (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
    the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher  repayment from a particular  level of income);
Ref: DRN43046902    the greater  the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period 
of time during  which a customer has been given  loans  (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending  itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably  repay  his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to 
meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably 
if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence and information  provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr M. It asked Mr M to provide 
details of his income and to tell Sunny what he normally spent each month. And Sunny 
also carried out checks on Mr Ms credit file.
I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt unreasonable of Sunny to agree the first six 
loans based on the information  it held about Mr M. And as Mr M hasnt  raised any 
objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation  to loans  1 through to 6, I dont 
think that I need to say more about them.
I think by loan 7 in February  2016 Sunny shouldve been concerned  that Mr M had by 
then been indebted to Sunny for over three months.  Sunny wouldve seen that he asked 
for loan 7 within just a few weeks of paying loans 2, 4 and 5  and barely a month after 
hed paid loan 1. So Sunny ought  to have considered  whether it was any longer 
reasonable to base its lending decision on the information Mr M was providing. I think  it 
would have been proportionate for Sunny to have  taken  steps  to independently check the 
true state of his finances.
Had Sunny  looked  in depth at Mr Ms finances  it would have seen that he was facing 
serious problems managing his money.  It would have seen that Mr M had been borrowing 
substantially from other  providers of high cost short term credit for some  time. And around  
the time he took out loan 7, it looked likely  that he had used some of the money hed 
previously borrowed from Sunny to repay  other short term loans that were  due.
So I dont  think  it was reasonable  for Sunny to conclude that it was likely  Mr M would be 
able to repay loan 7 in a sustainable way.
Ref: DRN43046903Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Ms lending with Sunny to see if there was a 
point at which Sunny  should reasonably have seen that further  lending  was unsustainable 
or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny shouldve realised that it wasnt  reasonable to lend 
more money to Mr M.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ms case,  I think that by loan 8 Sunny 
shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to continue lending to Mr M at that point. 
I say this because:
    loan 8 was the largest single  amount  hed taken at that stage  and by then 
Mr M had already taken  out 7 Sunny loans since starting his borrowing around 
three months earlier. And hed taken out loans shortly after repaying  previous loans 
several times. He took out loan 4 the day after paying loans 1 and 3. He took out 
loan 5 the day after paying loans 4 and 2. And loans 6 and 7 were  paid early a 
couple of days before Mr M took loan 8. So Sunny shouldve seen that it was likely 
Mr M had to keep borrowing each time to cover the hole left by repaying earlier  
loans. This suggests  that Mr M couldnt  sustainably afford  to repay  what  he had 
borrowed without borrowing again.
    Successfully  repaying his loans, and paying  them early, doesnt  mean  Mr M 
managed to do so in a sustainable way. He wasnt making any real inroads into 
the amount he owed  Sunny. I think borrowing and repaying this number of loans 
early shouldve made Sunny aware  that Mr Ms finances were  not in a stable 
position.
I think that Mr M lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 
8 onwards. This is because:
 these loans  had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness  by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short term use over an extended period of time.
 the number of loans Mr M had been borrowing  from Sunny was likely to have had 
negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit. This kept Mr M in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
In coming to this view,  Ive thought carefully  about the gap in lending after loan 14, before 
Mr M applied  for loan 15  and what Sunny says about this. On balance, and looking at the 
bigger picture,  I dont think that gap was long enough for Sunny reasonably to think  that 
Mr M had put his finances in order during that period. Hed already been borrowing for over 
eight months by the time he took out loan 14. The gap in lending  was around six months  
and significantly,  loan 15 was for another £950. 
I dont think this reasonably shouldve  led Sunny  to think  that Mr M wasnt  any longer 
dependent on high cost short term loans  during  this period.
So, as things stand,  overall Im planning to uphold Mr Ms complaint from loan 7 onwards.
Ref: DRN43046904what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr M hasnt  sent me anything further.  
Sunny says that it may have been  prudent to have asked Mr M about  his financial 
circumstances before granting him loan 14 in June 2016 and the loans that followed, and so 
it agrees with what Ive said about upholding loans 14 onwards.  
But Sunny would like me to reconsider  my provisional decision in relation to loans 7  13.
In summary,  Sunny says it doesnt agree  with my view that by the time loan 7 was granted  
Mr M was facing  serious problems managing his money. 
Sunny says it took independent steps  to verify the true state of Mr Ms finances when 
agreeing all loans.  And that in the period  leading  up to loan 7 there werent  any indications 
that he may have been having problems managing his money.  Sunny  says it took into 
account that Mr M was repaying more than one Sunny loan at a time. And that when Sunny 
spoke to Mr M in December 2015 and March 2016 he was happy to set up payment 
arrangments and didnt say that he was experiencing difficulties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ive thought carefully about everything that Sunny has said in response  to my provisional 
decision. I appreciate  that Sunny took steps to check what Mr M had said about  his financial 
circumstances  and Ive noted this in my provisional decision already. Ive no reason to 
think that Sunny shouldve probed more deeply  than it did into Mr Ms financial 
circumstances when  he asked to borrow loans 1-6. And given what  it knew  about his 
circumstances and his borrowing  relationship  with Sunny at that time,  I havent seen 
anything to make me think those  loans were unfair. So thats why Im not upholding the 
complaint about  loans  1-6. 
But for the reasons I explained  in my provisional decision, I think  by loan 7 that a 
proportionate check shouldve involved Sunny enquiring more fully into his circumstances. 
And had it done  so, then Sunny couldve seen that loan 7 was unlikely to be sustainably  
affordable for Mr M. 
Also, Ive taken into account what Sunny says about the weight  Ive attached  to the overall 
pattern of its lending history with Mr M when coming  to the view that loan 8 onwards 
shouldnt have been lent to him. But, for the reasons Ive already set out in my provisional 
decision, I still think by loan 8 that Mr Ms overall  pattern  of borrowing suggested that hed 
become persistently reliant on short-term loans   leading to the conclusion that borrowing 
from (and including) loan 8 onwards  was unsustainable for him.
Finally, whilst I accept  that lenders base credit decisions  on a large number of variables, its 
also fair for me to say that the number  of loans taken from loan 8 onwards means  any 
information recorded about those  loans will likely reflect adversely on Mr Ms credit file.
Ref: DRN43046905I appreciate that Sunny  disagrees  with the way Ive reached my view. In my decision Ive 
concentrated on dealing with the main points  raised that affect  the outcome of this complaint. 
I hope that setting  out the reasons as Ive done  will help explain how Ive reached my final 
decision.
As no further  comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained  in my provisional  decision.  
putting things right  what Sunny should  do
 refund  all interest and charges that Mr M paid on loan 7 onwards (loans 7-47)
 add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*
 remove any negative information  about loan 7 from Mr Ms credit file
 the number  of loans taken from loan 8 onwards means any information  recorded about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  8-47 should be removed from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I partially uphold  this complaint and direct Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as 
Sunny) to pay Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4304690