K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  (BMWFS) is of unsatisfactory  quality. Hed like to be 
allowed to reject it and terminate his finance agreement.
background
Mr M has been represented throughout this complaint  by his daughter Miss M. But for ease I 
will refer to Mr M throughout this decision even  though some of the comments may have 
been made by his representative.
Mr M took receipt of a used car in February 2017. He financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with BMWFS. The car had completed about 36,500 miles and was just 
over six years old when supplied to him.
Mr M says hes had problems with the car from the beginning. He said the engine 
management light (EML) came on but the dealership couldnt  find any fault codes and that 
subsequently the EML illuminated and the car went into limp mode every three to four 
weeks. Hes explained that in April 2018 the car stopped without  warning and was taken  to 
the dealership  where its been  since; unable to start and in need of repair.  Hed like to reject  
the car.
BMWFS said they were  responsible for the quality of the vehicle at the point of supply but 
that there  was no evidence the problems Mr M complained  of were reported to the 
dealership or them until 2018 which was too late to suggest the faults  the car was now 
experiencing couldve been  present from the start.
But Mr M was dissatisfied  with their response  and he therefore referred his complaint to this 
service and our adjudicator provided  her opinion. She couldnt find any evidence  that Mr M 
had reported any problems to BMWFS within the first six months  or that there was evidence  
that the faults that were  now present were  there  at the point of supply. So she didnt think 
BMWFS needed to take any further  action.
But Mr M was disappointed with the adjudicators opinion and he therefore asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr M so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN44766012Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  The  relevant law says, amongst other  things, that the car should have 
been of satisfactory  quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS are responsible.  The 
relevant law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory if they meet  the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking  into account any description of the 
goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr M. The car here 
was around six years  old and had travelled  36,500 miles.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask BMWFS to put this right.  
But BMWFSs responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
BMWFS are right to suggest that legislation would encourage us to assume  that if a car 
developed a fault in the first six months it was likely  to have been there from the point of 
supply. The relevant legislation says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
But if the fault happened after that wed usually look to the consumer to prove this was the 
case.
Mr M says he reported the issue to the dealership soon after supply but on its own I dont 
find this testimony persuasive. Its not corroborated and the dealership  havent  any record 
either. So the first report I have of any issue is the contact that was made by Mr Ms 
representative with BMWFS in May 2018  when it was first explained  that the car wasnt 
working and alleged that the fault was related to an EML warning that happened soon after 
the vehicle was collected in 2017; more than a year earlier.
Im not currently persuaded that it was most  likely the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.  I say that because: 
I would  expect more  evidence the cars faults had been reported  to the dealership  or 
BMWFS earlier if they were  present  or developing at the point  of supply. Ive seen a 
copy of an invoice  from a garage who were  asked to review an illuminated EML but 
that invoice said no charge was made  and the light extinguished mid-test.  I dont 
therefore think it would  be fair to suggest this was evidence  there was a fault 
Im not persuaded by the various  text messages  that Mr M has provided  that there 
was a fault that had been reported.  The texts, in the main,  lack dates and detail that 
would link them to faults. 
whilst  its clear that the car is now not working Id need  to be persuaded that the fault 
it has now was developing or present at the point of supply. Theres  been  no 
Ref: DRN44766013independent expert  evidence to support that theory and as the car failed so long after 
supply I think its reasonable to suggest it is for Mr M to provide this evidence
I understand that this problem has been  immensely  frustrating for Mr M. The car has been 
off the road for some time but it wouldnt  be fair for me to suggest there is evidence the cars 
current problems have  been developing from the start as theres  not been sufficient evidence  
that was the case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4476601