K820x#14complaint
Mr B, Mr W, Mr C, Mrs W, Mrs B and Mr C complain that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust)  
unfairly declined  a claim made under  a warranty.
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to the complainants collectively as Mr B throughout, unless 
specified. And any reference  to Amtrust  includes its agents or representatives.
background
The background of this claim is well known to all parties.  So, Ive summarised events.
Mr B represents a number of properties that are across two separate  buildings with 
courtyards  covered  by an Amtrust  building warranty  that began in June 2011.
The warranty includes  a defect insurance  period (DIP) which covers certain issues 
discovered within the first few years if the developer fails to resolve them  and Amtrust 
intervenes. And a structural insurance  period (SIP) which  provides cover for certain 
issues discovered in the following years up until year ten.
Mr B says there  was an initial issue with the roof that occurred in one of the 
properties within the DIP period. The owner (Mr X) raised  this with the developer  who 
considered the problem and instructed the original glazing contractors to undertake 
remedial works. During this time another owner  reported water running down the 
glass of an atrium.  This was also raised  with the glazing  contractors who concluded 
the matter was condensation.
Mr B says he can only assume  Mr X never  raised this with Amtrust  as the developer  
had agreed to resolve the matter. He also said the policy  was unclear that this was a 
requirement of the warranty.
Mr B says no further problems occurred  with the glazed roofing until 2017. Amtrust  
declined a claim for this - referring to a comment from the company secretary  of the 
time (Mr Y) who had said the leaks occurring  had previous problems. Mr B 
complained, saying Mr Y had clearly become confused with where  the leaks occurred  
and was not involved in the detail of the matter.
Mr B also said Amtrust had unfairly  declined to consider  unrelated damage to a 
separate roof as it had considered  them as one common part. He said both atriums 
are still suffering problems related to their support structures  which he says shows 
the roofs were  never fit for purpose. He adds  the roof structures have been subjected  
to continuous  excessive flexing which, given the elevated  position  of the properties 
must have had an effect on the glazing system. Mr B said it was possible the prior 
water leakages  could  be attributable  to the recent  discovery  concerning the structural 
faults.
Mr B also complained about Amtrusts  requirement for owners  to make part-
payments for other claims. This matter  has since been resolved by Amtrust  and is not 
the subject of this complaint.
Amtrust considered the complaint and stood by its decision. It said there was no 
cover under  the DIP as it had been notified too late, and the damage didnt meet the 
required definitions for major  damage under the SIP.
So, Mr B brought  his complaint to this service, asking Amtrust to carry out necessary  
roof repairs and refund the £6,000 in unsuccessful repairs already paid.
Ref: DRN42156992Our investigator looked  into things. She said Amtrust  had failed to demonstrate  that 
the cause of leaks addressed by the developer  were the same as the issues  reported 
during the SIP. So, she directed  it to consider  a claim under the SIP in line with the 
policy terms.
Amtrust disagreed, saying it was for the policyholders to prove their claim, and that 
the evidence supported it was a continuing  leak. Amtrust provided copies of claims 
forms from two of the property owners and a supporting statement. It said these 
clearly showed the repairs from within the DIP had failed and therefore the leaks 
resulted from the same issue. And that the policyholders  had confirmed the ingress 
was apparent in the first two years following construction.
Mr B responded, reiterating his concerns and stating that if Amtrust had correctly 
accepted the claim in 2017 as a latent  defect further deterioration and damage 
wouldve been avoided.  He also said that the condition precedent that Amtrust  was 
relying on  to raise  the matter with Amtrust within the DIP  was met as the 
developer had been informed and was responding to the defect.
The investigator looked again,  saying  Mr B had proven the claim so it was now for 
Amtrust to investigate the matter.  Amtrust still disagreed, so the complaint was 
passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
On 23 July 2021 I issued a provisional decision outlining why I wasnt intending to uphold the 
complaint. Ive included an extract of this below.
Was there cover under  the DIP?
Under Defects Insurance the policy says:
The Underwriter will indemnify the Policyholder during the Defects 
Insurance Period against the cost of repairing, replacing or rectifying any 
Defect in the Housing Unit for which the Developer is responsible  and 
which is discovered and notified to the Developer during the Defects 
Insurance Period and which is notified to the Underwriter within  6 months of 
the expiry of the Defects Insurance Period.
Theres no dispute that the developer carried out works during the DIP period. And in 
line with the policy,  any works related to any defect  would  need to be brought  to the 
attention of Amtrust  within six months.  In this case, its evident this wasnt  raised with 
Amtrust so Im satisfied  any of the issues that occurred or were  discovered within  this 
time period would be fairly declined by Amtrust  in line with the policy  terms.
Was there cover under the SIP?
Under Structural Insurance the policy  says:
The Underwriter will indemnify the Policyholder against all claims 
discovered and notified  to the Underwriter during the Structural  Insurance 
Period in respect of:
I) the cost of complete  or partial rebuilding  or rectifying work to the Housing 
Unit which  has been affected by Major Damage provided always that the 
liability of the Underwriter does not exceed the reasonable cost of rebuilding 
each Housing Unit to its original specification;
ii) the cost of repairing  or making good  any defects in the chimneys and flues 
of each Housing Unit which  was newly constructed by the Developer 
causing an imminent danger to the health and safety  of occupants.
Ref: DRN42156993Unlike the DIP period which covers defects more  widely, the level of cover in this 
claim under SIP (as it doesnt concern chimneys  or flues) is limited to Major 
Damage.  Major damage is defined  within the policy as:
I) Destruction of or physical damage  to any portion  of the Housing Unit for 
which a Certificate of Insurance has been issued by the Underwriter ;
II) a condition requiring  immediate remedial action to prevent actual 
destruction of or physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit for 
which a Certificate of Insurance has been issued by the Underwriter .
In either  case caused by a defect in the design, workmanship, materials  or 
components of:
- the Structure;  or
- the waterproofing elements of the Waterproof Envelope;
which Is first discovered during the Structural Insurance Period.
So, for the purposes of this claim and complaint, the key considerations are whether 
major damage has taken  place, and whether this was first discovered during the SIP 
(as discovery during the DIP would mean the claim wont  be covered).
When did the damage Mr B is now claiming for take place?
Ill begin by looking  at when the damage took place. Amtrust has provided claim 
forms from January 2018 from Mr W and Mr B. This includes a timeline of events 
from the policyholders. Within this it refers to the roof glazing, saying:
This is not a new problem and indeed the windows have previously been  attended 
to and some  repairs have been  made. The initial repairs  were within  two years of the 
original build.
This suggests to me Mr W and Mr B agree the root cause of the problems originated 
from when the properties  were  purchased.  They also say:
The present situation is that [developer] appear  to be in dispute  with [glazing 
contractors] over their responsibilities. We are therefore awaiting a reply from 
[developer].
This also suggests to me that Mr B has explored, or at least  considered,  the 
responsibilities the developer and the glazing contractor  may have in relation to its 
previous repairs. But this isnt within the scope of this service to determine.
In Mr Bs submissions hes been clear  that Mr X had previous issues  with water 
ingress to the roof of the building. Hes said its now apparent there  are flaws with the 
roof support  structures  that indicates  the roofs were never fit for purpose. This 
suggests to me that the problem, by its nature, always existed. And in light of the 
previous works carried out suggests the problem was discovered within the DIP 
period. While the developer and contractors carried out repairs,  clearly this didnt 
resolve whatever  issues were present. So, I think  Amtrusts decision to determine  the 
damage in question was during the DIP period -where it wasnt notified - was a fair 
and reasonable one.
For this reason, Im satisfied the claim has been  fairly declined, and I see no reason 
to go on to consider  whether major damage  has taken place.
Ive also noted  Mr Bs comments about  a separate condition precedent within  the 
warranty. But this hasnt  changed my mind.  I say this as the term hes mentioned  
doesnt change  any of the requirements  Ive outlined above  within  the policy.
Ref: DRN42156994I gave both parties until 23 August 2021 to respond  and this time has now passed. Amtrust 
hasnt provided  anything further.  Mr B disagreed and provide a detailed response.  Ive 
summarised this below.
The date of discovery of condensation  issue was not certain. But the issues identified  
later within the second roof were distinct  and separate  from the condensation  issues 
identified in the first. He reiterated Mr Ys comments being incorrect. And said the 
history of water leakage at the property had caused confusion within statements 
made. But he says these comments in question do not show that leaks  have existed 
since build.
Mr B reiterated he believes the terms around contacting  the underwriter within six 
months were  contradictory within the policy. And quotes a section of the policy that 
refers to contacting the Scheme Administrator in writing within  six months of the DIP 
if the developer does not respond. As the developer was contacted and responded, 
he says this timeframe  should not exist in this case.
Mr B said the two roofs are not fit for purpose, but may suffer  from latent defects 
which could not reasonably have  been determined  when  new through  inspection.
Amtrust  has been inconsistent with its application of its policy  referring to its actions 
in a separate claim. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ive carefully considered all of the points Mr B has made about the date of discovery 
of damage, and the comments from Mr Y. And while I understand his strong feeling 
on this matter, Im not persuaded these  comments outweigh  the available  evidence 
Ive outlined previously  within  my provisional decision.  So these havent changed my 
mind.
Mr B has said the terms of the policy are contradictory. While I can see the distinction 
he has made, the condition precedent quoted says if the requirement to contact the 
Scheme Administrator  is not met the  Underwriter will have no liability  if all matters 
are not notified  within these time frames.  
This doesnt suggest to me that there is any reason to ignore the terms set out within  
the Defects Insurance section of the policy (that Ive quoted  above), nor that the 
section hes now quoted should be read in isolation.  So as Ive outlined previously, 
any works related  to any defect  would need  to be brought  to the attention of Amtrust 
within six months. In this case,  its evident this wasnt raised with Amtrust so Im 
satisfied any of the issues that occurred or were  discovered within this time period  
were fairly declined by Amtrust.
Ive considered Mr Bs comments regarding  the possibility of identifying latent defects 
through inspection.  But this isnt supported by any technical or expert opinion. So it 
doesnt change  my mind.
Mr B has referred to Amtrusts handling  of other  claims. But it is only this claim that 
Ive considered when looking at this complaint.
Ref: DRN42156995my final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2021.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4215699