K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  attached to a credit card 
taken out in 2002. Miss N says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her PPI. 
background
The policy and credit card were taken out during a meeting at a bank branch.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
Miss N disagreed with these findings. She has reiterated her concerns that she would never 
knowingly have agreed to take out PPI. Miss N has suggested that it is possible the policy  
wasnt explained properly  to her, or that it wasnt made clear  that it was optional. She has 
stated that she had no need for PPI, and that is why she would not have agreed  to take it 
out. Miss N says that on a separate Halifax credit card,  when she discovered she had PPI on 
it she rang to cancel it because she hadnt  been aware of the policy  and did not require it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 In my view it is more  likely  than not that Halifax made  it clear  that Miss N didnt have to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out. I have carefully  considered Miss Ns 
comments that she does  not recall  agreeing  to take out PPI. However,  I am mindful that 
the sale occurred  a number of years  ago, in my opinion  making  it more  difficult to recall 
in detail.
The credit  card application form that Miss N signed included a box to select PPI. This 
box had a cross in it. I cannot  be sure exactly what was discussed between Miss N and 
the adviser at this time.  However, on the balance  of probabilities, taking into account that 
the PPI was selected on the form, it seems likely to me that a discussion did take place 
about this insurance cover. As the form required the PPI box to be marked  in order for 
the policy to be arranged, I consider this indicated  that PPI was an optional  product. With 
the PPI box having  a cross in it, on the weight of evidence provided, my conclusion is 
that Miss N agreed to take PPI out.
 Halifax recommended the PPI to Miss N so it had to check  that it was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the main  exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.
 Miss N has provided details of the sick pay she was entitled to from her employer at 
the time that she took out the policy. Even taking this into account,  I consider that Miss 
N would have  found the cover  useful for meeting  her card repayments in the event that 
she was not working.  
Ref: DRN41715892 Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss N about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. It also looks like it was affordable. On balance I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put Miss N off taking out the cover. 
 Although I appreciate that Miss N will be disappointed with my findings, my conclusion 
is that the policy was not mis-sold  to her.
Therefore Bank of Scotland  doesnt need to refund everything Miss N paid for the PPI. But 
Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Miss N back some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont  
think it needs to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Miss N now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4171589