K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that MBNA Limited issued a default against her credit  file after she was 
advised to ignore its letters.  
background
Miss M told MBNA that she got into financial difficulties when she had to stop working. 
She contacted the business  to tell it shed cancelled her direct debit payment. She said shed 
done this because she didnt have enough money in her account to cover the payment. 
MBNA asked Miss M for information about  her financial  situation and worked out that she 
couldnt afford to make  any payments. MBNA  offered  to reduce the interest  on the balance 
of the card to 0% and waived its fees  it also blocked any new transactions on the card.  
During the call Miss M had with MBNA, its adviser  said statements would be sent each 
month which would confirm the minimum payment  due. The business said it did not expect 
to receive a payment from Miss M, as it was aware  that she couldnt afford to pay. MBNA 
also advised that after six months it may default the account, but said it would give Miss M 
notice of this. It said if Miss Ms situation had changed by this time,  she could begin making 
payments again  to avoid the default.  
Miss M agrees that MBNA  made  these  arrangements,  but says she was told to ignore letters  
from the business. Because of this, Miss M did not contact MBNA to agree  any repayments 
following its notice of default letter. 
Following the initial  call, MBNA also sent Miss M a letter to confirm the action it had taken on 
her account.  Some frequently  asked  questions were included with this letter. Under  the 
section What communications  will I continue to receive the answer  includes the following 
information  Please note you may receive arrears  letters from us that wed already sent 
before the date of this letter. You may ignore these letters.  However, you should take note of 
any legal  or regulatory notices  issued  after the date of this letter.. 
After six months of Miss M not making  any payments, MBNA sent her a letter.  This stated 
that Miss M should  contact the business  by 14 March 2019, to make  the payment  itd asked 
for, or to agree a way forward. The letter also listed the action which  would be taken if this 
did not happen  this included confirmation  that Miss Ms credit file would  be updated with 
a default. 
Miss M contacted MBNA about  making  a payment in April,  but MBNA  says that by this time it 
was too late. The account was defaulted on 26 April 2019.
Miss M complained to MBNA  and it did not uphold her complaint. It said its records showed 
that Miss M had been made aware of the impact to her credit file both during the call and in 
a follow  up letter. At this time MBNA  could not trace and listen  to the initial  call Miss M had 
made. Unhappy with MBNAs  response, Miss M brought her complaint to this service.  
One of our investigators  looked into Miss Ms complaint. At this point MBNA provided a copy 
of the relevant call with Miss M. The investigator said that MBNA  had clearly  communicated  
the impact on Miss Ms credit file, and found no evidence that Miss M had been told to ignore 
the default letters. Miss M didnt agree, and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
Ref: DRN41242792my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call between Miss M and MBNA on 21 November 2018. Im aware that 
the recording was originally unavailable, but this has now been accessed  by MBNA. And 
a copy has also been shared with Miss M by MBNA.  During this call MBNA gave details of 
the communications Miss M should expect to receive as follows. 
collection calls and letters will be stopped; 
monthly minimum payment letters will continue to be sent;
regulatory letters will be sent including notice  of sums and arrears letters which  will 
detail the amounts  due and the effects on the credit  file; and
a notice of default  letter which will be sent before the account defaults. 
In this call MBNA advised that to avoid a default, Miss M should respond to the notice of 
default letter. It said that if her situation  changed  within six months, she could begin making 
payments again.  Or if she was still unable to make  payments, the account would default.
I did not find any evidence  of MBNA advising  Miss M to ignore its letters during this call. 
The only mention I can find of specifically ignoring  letters is within the frequently  asked 
questions sent with MBNAs  letter  on 22 November  2018. These explain that arrears letters 
previously issued can be ignored. This information  also states  you should  take note of any 
legal or regulatory  notices  issued after the date of this letter and I find this to be clear that 
action would need to be taken for certain  types  of letters.
Based on the content of the call and the follow up letter, Im satisfied that MBNA  accurately 
informed Miss M of what would happen to her account after six months  of non-payment.  And 
it also gave the correct information about how she could avoid the default against her credit  
file.
Payments were not made on the account for more  than six months  and MBNA has correctly 
recorded this information against Miss Ms credit  file, as its required to do.
Ref: DRN41242793my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision not to uphold  this complaint. I make  no 
award against MBNA Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2019.
Gemma Warner 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4124279