K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), Halifax at the time, mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain  why. 
Mr H says he wasnt aware  the PPI was optional. But based on the evidence Ive seen I think 
BoS made it clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  
although I can understand why he cant remember this now. I say this because Ive seen  a 
copy of the credit card application form Mr H saw and signed, which included a section  with 
some additional  products  available. These  products were listed under the words: If you want  
these services please mark the relevant  boxes  - and theres  a cross in the box for PPI. But 
there isnt a cross in the box for the other  product available. So I think  its likely  these  
products were discussed and Mr H agreed  to the PPI knowing it was something  he didnt 
have to have.  Mr H then signed the form, consenting  to the information contained within  in.  
Mr H says BoS didnt  recommend the PPI to him. BoS says it did. As things stand, there isnt 
enough information to determine  this point. But being able to do so isnt crucial  to the 
outcome because, had BoS recommended the policy, I think it wouldve been a suitable  
recommendation to have  made for the reasons I set out below. As a result, Ive considered 
the complaint  on the same basis as BoS.
As a recommended  sale BoS had to check that the PPI was right for Mr H. Ive considered  
his circumstances  from the time of sale and can see that hed only been employed  with his 
company for three months.  The relevant  PPI policy terms state that the insured had to have 
been working for six months before making  an unemployment claim. We tried to get in touch 
with Mr H to find out whether he had been  employed  before this, but at the time of writing  
this information  hadnt been received.  However in any event, the policy also excluded all 
unemployment claims for the first 90 days of the policy. After which time Mr H wouldve been 
employed for more  than six months  and therefore,  after the initial  waiting period, he wouldve 
been able to make a claim for unemployment whenever he may have needed to. So Im 
satisfied that this didnt make  the policy unsuitable  for him. And based  on everything else 
Ive seen of Mr Hs circumstances from the time, I dont think  he wouldve been restricted  by 
any of the other exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover - and he seems to have  had a need 
for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But for the same reasons I think the policy wasnt  unsuitable for him, I dont  think  
better information would  have  put him off taking out the cover. And considering  Mr H didnt 
have any other means of making his payments  if he was unable  to work, I think the policy 
wouldve been useful  for him if something went wrong. 
Ref: DRN44823952This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr H paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr H back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Bos will make arrangements  to pay Mr H now Ive issued  my final decision  if it hasnt 
already done so.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4482395