K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  that TSB Bank Plc is unfairly  refusing  to remove  default  information it has 
recorded on his credit file.
background 
Mr L held a current account with TSB, with an overdrawn balance.  He wasnt funding the 
account regularly  to support the overdraft,  so TSB issued  a demand for repayment  of the 
balance. Mr L didnt  make  repayment by the specified date, and the bank submitted 
information to credit reference agencies that showed  the account  as being in default. The 
debt was ultimately transferred to a third party debt recovery company, W. At that point, Mr L 
paid the balance.
Mr L says he never received notification of the default from TSB,  and that if he had done so, 
hed have taken  steps to avoid it. He wants the bank  to remove  the default from his credit  
file, as its having an impact on his ability  to get credit. TSB has declined to do so. It says it 
sent Mr L a default  notice,  and that it is an accurate reflection of the account conduct.
Our investigator was satisfied TSB had correctly issued the default notice, and didnt think  
there was any proper basis to ask the bank to remove it. She did, however,  note that TSB 
hadnt updated Mr Ls credit file to show hed repaid the debt. She proposed that the bank 
update Mr Ls file with that information,  and that it pay him £100 compensation.
TSB agreed  to the investigators  proposal. But Mr L didnt. He still feels that the default 
should be removed,  maintaining that he didnt receive the banks letter.  Mr L believes there 
should be an onus  on the bank to ensure  such a letter is received. He adds that when his 
account was passed to W, he was assured that his credit file would be unaffected.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is, of course, entirely possible for both parties  to be correct  in this situation. TSB has 
provided evidence  indicating it wrote to Mr L about the account status and what action it 
intended to take if the balance went unpaid. And its quite  plausible Mr L didnt receive the 
banks letter  not all items sent by post are correctly delivered.  But the requirement here 
isnt that TSB shows that Mr L did receive the letter. Its perfectly acceptable  to send such 
correspondence by ordinary post.  After  all, the courts  permit  the service  of documents  by 
such means.
Rather, the important point is whether  there was anything that TSB did  or failed to do  
that meant  Mr L didnt  get its letter. And I havent  seen anything  to suggest that there was. 
The banks correspondence appears to have  been  correctly addressed  and sent to Mr L. 
While Mr L makes the point that TSB did contact him by telephone about other matters, that 
doesnt mean the bank needed  to take similar action  over the default. It was entitled to 
expect that he would receive  its correspondence.
The default  information TSB has recorded is in line with the way Mr L handled the account 
arrangements. He has himself acknowledged that there were occasions on which  he didnt 
make payments into his account, as required under the overdraft arrangement.  And he was 
Ref: DRN43813882undoubtedly aware of the account  position,  even if he didnt fully appreciate the 
consequences of failing  to meet his contractual obligations.
Mr L has said that he was told that the fact his account had been  passed for recovery  
wouldnt affect his credit rating. He indicates W told him this, which presumably places that 
conversation as taking  place  after TSB recorded  the default.  The only action Mr L took in 
reliance on that information  appears  to have been to repay the balance. He would in any 
event have been required to do this. So I dont  consider that conversation  has a bearing on 
whether TSB is treating  him unfairly by declining to remove the default.
Taking all of this into account,  it really  wouldnt be right for me to require TSB to remove  the 
default from Mr Ls credit file. But I recognise  the possibility that Mr L didnt receive the letter 
and might have acted in a different  way if he had done so.
In such circumstances,  the way I might  look to address this would  be to suggest  to Mr L that 
he place a notice  of correction on his credit  file. Such action enables  prospective lenders to 
take into account the background to an adverse entry, which  is to my mind  preferable to 
amending an entry  so that it does  not accurately reflect events. I note this is in fact an action 
Mr L has already taken. So I dont consider it necessary for me to require any further action 
in relation to the default.
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank Plcs offer is fair and reasonable. It should pay Mr L £100. 
But I dont require it to do anything more than that. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Sarita Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4381388