K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ls complaint is about the service provided  by Great Lakes  Insurance SE in relation to a 
central heating insurance policy.
background
In late 2018, Mrs L applied for the central heating insurance policy  with Great  Lakes. The 
policy requires an initial inspection of the boiler  to ensure that it was eligible for the cover  
under the policy.  The initial inspection took place on 12 December 2018.  Apparently the 
engineer also inspected magna filter that had been  fitted to the system. He said the seals  
were broken  and the filter began to leak. He apparently  told Mrs W about this at the time and 
told her she might end up with no heating or hot water. 
Two days later, Mrs L complained to Great  Lakes  that its engineer had broken the seals on 
the magna filter and she didnt have  heat or hot water as a result. Mrs L says the magna 
filter was leaking and she had to collect the leaking water in a pan and empty it twice a day. 
Great Lakes accepted that its engineer had broken the seals  and agreed to replace the 
magna filter. This was done on 20 December 2018  but around six days  after the repair,     
Mrs W says her boiler broke down again.  Great Lakes sent another engineer out who said 
there was an air lock in the central heating system and resolved  this. 
However, on 31 December 2018 the boiler  failed again. Great  Lakes sent out another  
contractor who said there  might be a blockage  in the system  and that they didnt think  the 
system had been  maintained correctly, as a chemical inhibitor wasnt  present in the system.   
I understand the problem pressure kept dropping  and had to be topped up. Great  Lakess 
contractors went out again in early  January 2019  and said that there  might  be a leak in 
pipework under the floor.
On 19 January 2019 Mrs Ls own contractor came out and I understand he made some 
adjustments to the expansion  vessel, which seemed to resolve it. However,  in March 2019 a 
representative from the manufacturer of the boiler came out and replaced the heat 
exchanger. I understand the boiler has worked properly since  then. 
Mrs L says that all these  issues with the boiler  are a result  of the original  contractor breaking  
the magna filter. When Great Lakes agreed to fix it, it sent the same engineer who had 
caused the issue, which she wasnt happy  about.  He didn't bleed the radiators, even having 
shut the system  down and he didn't put the chemical inhibitor back  in. He apparently told 
Mrs L this didn't matter.  Mrs L says that as a result of not putting the chemical inhibitor in, 
this led to the manufacturers warranty becoming invalid.
Great Lakes says the engineer at the initial  inspection didnt need to inspect the magna filter 
but was trying to provide a thorough service.  In some of its notes it denies that its engineer 
broke the magna filter but in other correspondence it confirms that he did. In any event, it 
says that it has done everything it can to rectify this for Mrs L: it has provided her with a 
replacement magna filter which  will be more efficient than her old one and which cost £190, 
and came back out to check  why the pressure was dropping.  
 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He didnt think  there was enough evidence  to 
say that all the problems with the boiler  were due to the inspection visit on 12 December 
Ref: DRN426390022018. The problem  seems to have been  resolved by the replacement of the heat exchanger 
and this is not connected to the magna filter. 
The investigator did however, recommend that Great Lakes pay compensation of £150  for 
the error  in damaging the seal initially, and being without heating and hot water for six days 
as a result; and the failure to diagnose the problem and inconvenience  of repeated 
appointments due to this, 
Mrs W wants  the cost of inhibitor 
Great Lakes doesnt  accept that any compensation is warranted. It says its contractors went  
above and beyond by ensuring this was put right for Ms L. It accepts its contractor broke the 
seal  it has explained  that the seal would always need to be replaced after inspection of the 
filter. Normally this would  be simple and cheap  to do but this particular seal was obsolete, so 
a new filter was needed. Great Lakes  also says it attended on a number of occasions  to 
identify the fault,  and find the leak; this was made  more difficult  because  there  was pipe work 
concealed beneath concrete. Also, it says this issue occurred on the first visit to Ms L's 
home, therefore it cannot be sure this leak wasnt there before.  
Great Lakes also says,  the inhibitor slows the rate that sludge and scale  develops within the 
system. It would take considerable time before the build up of sludge and scale  were  enough  
to affect the performance of the boiler.  
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me. 
Mrs W also said that shed been charged  for a years insurance  with Great  Lakes but she 
had thought that following  the initial inspection it had refused to insure the boiler.  As this is a 
new issue, she was told to contact  Great Lakes about this. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigator that there  is not enough  evidence  that the problems with the 
boiler and heating system  were all due to the contractor  on that first visit. I am satisfied that 
its contractor did break  the seal (although Great Lakes has disputed this in some 
correspondence, it seems  to also accept that). 
Great Lakes says it has fitted a replacement filter and therefore has done all it can to rectify 
this. However, I agree  with the investigator  that, as well as putting Mrs L back in the position 
she had been  in (by replacing the filter) some additional compensation is also appropriate. 
Great Lakes says it has done everything it could  to rectify this by replacing the filter. 
However, this does not address the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs L as a direct  
result of it breaking this filter. This includes: the engineer leaving the filter knowing he had 
broken it and that it would  cause a leak but not arranging the replacement until Mrs L called 
a couple of days later; she was then without  heating and hot water for around six days in 
December; having  to collect the leaking water  in a pan and emptying it over that time, and 
had the inconvenience of another appointment  to fit the replacement filter. So I agree with 
the investigator that some additional compensation, over and above the replacement of the 
filter, is warranted. I consider that the sum of £200 is more appropriate for this.  
Mrs L is also concerned that this caused  other problems with her heating,  which were 
eventually rectified  by the replacement of the heat exchanger in March 2019. 
Ref: DRN42639003I am not persuaded there  is enough  evidence that these problems were  a direct result  of 
anything the contractor did or didnt do on that first visit. Mrs L says that the chemical 
inhibitor should  have been  added  to the system when Great  Lakes replaced  the filter. Its not 
clear whether the system  was entirely  drained  down when the filter was replaced or not. I do 
not have any convincing evidence that this should  have been  done.  Even  if there were  and 
it was proven Great Lakes should have put chemical  inhibitor in when it replaced the magna 
filter - there is also no convincing evidence, that Im aware of, that has linked the problems 
Mrs L was experiencing,  of her boiler losing  pressure  and the replacement  of the heat 
exchanger, to any lack of chemical inhibitor, or the initial  leak from the magna filter. 
Given this, overall, I am satisfied that a payment  of £200 is appropriate.
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Great Lakes Insurance SE in part and require it to pay Mrs L 
the sum of £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling  of 
the initial inspection  appointment.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4263900