K820x#14complaint
Mr A said that a cash machine only dispensed  £10 instead of the £230 hed asked for. He 
complained because Vanquis  Bank  Limited  said the machine had dispensed the right 
amount, and wouldnt refund him the balance.
background
At around 3pm on 2 November 2018, Mr A used his Vanquis credit card at a cash machine. 
He requested £230.
On 5 November,  Mr A rang Vanquis. He said the machine had only given him £10, not the 
£230 hed asked for. Vanquis referred it to its security team  and contacted the machine 
provider. In its final response, Vanquis  told Mr A that it had seen evidence  that £230  cash 
had been withdrawn from the machine.  It refused to refund Mr A for the £220 hed said he 
didnt get.
Mr A wasnt  satisfied and complained to this service.
Mr A told the investigator that hed gone to the shopping centre to do some shopping, and 
that when the machine only gave him £10, hed phoned Vanquis straightaway. He said his 
brother was with him and had been able to lend him some  money.  Mr A later said the reason 
hed gone to the shopping centre  was to get his phone repaired, and hed wanted £230  just 
to have some cash with him. He said hed asked Vanquis to get a copy of CCTV, but the 
bank had told him there wasnt  a camera pointing at the machine.
The investigator obtained details about  the machine from the machine provider. The record  
showed:
-at 15:02:10  a transaction was started at the machine;
-at 15:02:19  the correct PIN was entered;
-at 15:02:31  £230 was requested;
-at 15:03:01  the card was taken;
-at 15:03:05  £230 was dispensed.
The investigator didnt  think Mr As version  of events was plausible.  She noted  that Mr A 
hadnt phoned Vanquis straightaway but had waited three days  until 5 November. And she 
said that as using a credit card to withdraw  cash involved charges, shed have expected 
Mr A to have had a more  specific reason  for withdrawing the cash.. 
She felt Mr A hadnt  given a consistent  version  of what had happened, or why hed gone to 
the shopping centre. Nor had he provided evidence to back up what  hed said about 
borrowing cash from his brother  such as a withdrawal by his brother from an account.  
So the investigator said that, as there  was no evidence of a fault with the machine, and Mr A 
hadnt been consistent about what happened, she didnt uphold  his complaint for the 
disputed £220  to be refunded.
Mr A wasnt  satisfied. He said he had phoned  Vanquis straightaway,  and it had told him to 
wait as the money might come back into his account  after a couple  of days. He said Vanquis 
had credited back the disputed £220 and then taken it back again. He said that it was his 
choice whether to take cash out on a credit card, and had nothing to do with the investigator,  
Ref: DRN43820842whose concern was the machine dispute,  not what hed spent  it on. Mr A also said that the 
withdrawal had been on a Friday, and Vanquis  had closed early,  and that as it was the 
weekend hed been told to ring back on Monday 5th because the correct department was 
closed. Mr A also said he could provide the details of someone whod been  around when the 
machine didnt dispense the full amount.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I accept that Mr A was entitled  to take cash  out on his credit card if he wanted to. I also 
dont consider its relevant what he intended to do with the money. Theres  no dispute that 
the amount he requested from the machine was £230. So it makes no difference  to my 
decision that Mr A gave different versions of his plans for the cash.
What is relevant is the computerised  record from the machine supplier about what was 
actually dispensed.  Ive set out part of those records in the background section  above.  
These showed that £230 was dispensed. We asked the machine supplier for more 
information, and it told us that, for Mr As transaction, the machine dispensed one £10 note 
and eleven £20 notes  a total of £230. The machine supplier also said that the machines 
maintenance log showed no issues on the computer. Nor had they had any inbound calls 
about any problems  with the machine. And during the period in which  Mr As transaction  fell, 
there was no record of the machine  having  £220 more than it should have done.
This is the key information which Ive taken into account in reaching  my decision. I have also 
borne in mind  that theres no record  of Mr A ringing Vanquis immediately  after the 
transaction at around 3pm on a Friday, as he says he did. £220 is a significant amount of 
money and I consider most people would  ring up straightaway if that happened.
Banks keep computerised logs of customer contact, and Mr As record shows no sign of him 
ringing about this issue before 16:13  on Monday 5 November. Mr A has said Vanquis closed 
early on a Friday. Thats  not in line with Vanquiss  published opening hours, and I consider 
its unlikely the banks phone lines would have been  closed at 3pm on a Friday. When Mr A 
reported the problem doesnt change what actually happened at the machine, of course. But 
I consider not reporting it for three  days makes it less likely that the machine did in fact give 
him £220 too little. 
I note that in response to the investigators  view, Mr A has offered contact details for 
someone he said was around at the time of the withdrawal. This is the first time Mr A has 
offered this, which is surprising. And I consider its unlikely  that this would outweigh the 
technical evidence,  some months  after the transaction.   
Taking these factors  into account, and based on the evidence, I dont uphold Mr As 
complaint and I dont  require  Vanquis to refund the £220 which he says he didnt receive 
from the machine.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN43820843Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4382084