K822xcomplaint
Mr D and Mrs V complain  about the decision made  by Tesco Underwriting Limited to hold 
Mrs V at fault for an accident after she made a claim on their motor insurance policy.
 
background 
On 23 September  2017 Mrs V says she was driving  her car normally when a car drove 
towards her at speed from the opposite direction. She says it entered her side of the road 
and collided with her car, which was later written-off. Mrs V says she sustained  serious back  
and neck injuries.  Mr D and Mrs V gave Tesco the first name and mobile phone number the 
driver gave her, plus the cars registration  number.  
Tesco was told by the other insurer  that it hadnt been contacted by the other  driver.  It asked 
for more details of the accident. In January 2018,  the other insurer said the motor trader who 
owned the car and was insured by it had sold it prior to the accident. It said it had no details 
of the sale and didnt know who the driver  that caused the accident was. Later  on, it said the 
car wasnt sold until after the accident.  It said the details Tesco had given it didnt match  any 
details on the policy. It said Tesco needed  to identify the driver.  Tesco  tried the phone  
number the other driver had given Mrs V without success.  
Tesco told us it took legal  advice before informing Mr D and Mrs V that - as it couldnt 
identify the other driver  the other  insurer wasnt obliged to settle the claim. Tesco  couldnt  
issue proceedings to recoup the sum it had paid out for repairs. So Mrs V has a fault claim 
on her record.  Tesco  says there was no legal cover  on the policy,  but it referred  Mr D and 
Mrs V to a legal firm for advice. It thought she was unlikely  to be able to pursue a personal 
injury claim, as theres  no known party to set a claim against.
Later on, Mr D queried why Tesco couldnt  identify the other driver when hed told it the other 
driver was a regular visitor to the area and had relatives living there. He said there was also 
a witness to the accident who saw the other driver. 
Our investigator thought Tesco had done  all it could to progress the claim. She said Mr D 
hadnt told Tesco there was a witness to the accident. In her view the problem was that 
Tesco couldnt show who was driving the car at the time of the accident.  Mr D said there  was 
legal cover on the policy, but the investigator  checked with Tesco and it confirmed that there 
wasnt. She thought  Tesco had caused  delays in dealing with the claim,  and said it should 
pay Mr D and Mrs V £150 compensation. Mr D and Mrs V didnt accept the investigators 
view, so the complaint was passed to me for review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the car was owned by a motor trader,  a number of people  may have driven  it without 
being named on the policy. The motor trader should know who was driving the car  as it 
wasnt stolen before the incident. But the other insurer insisted that it had no details of the 
other driver  and said Tesco must  provide those details before it could take the matter any 
further. The details  Tesco got from Mrs V and Mr D didnt help to identify the driver. From 
what Mr D has said, the witness arrived after hearing a bang, so didnt see the incident. It 
Ref: DRN49386522seems the witness may have recognised  the other driver, but didnt know  his name.  So I 
dont think it would have  helped even if Tesco had known these details from the start.
Tesco initially threatened to issue proceedings, but it has shown us that its solicitors were  
consulted later and said that couldnt be done unless Tesco  had the name of the other  
driver. We asked if Tesco had considered  seeking  an order  for disclosure against the other  
insurer. Tesco said it didnt think that would have helped. It said the other insurer may have  
agreed to the order - but would simply have  said it had nothing to disclose, as it didnt  know  
who the other driver  was. Or it could  have objected to the order.  In that case  Tesco  would 
have had to pay the other  insurers costs as well as the cost of the application. Tesco  said it 
had paid out more than £3,000 on the claim.  It said if it could have done anything  else to 
recover that sum from another party it would have  done so. That seems  reasonable to me.
Mrs V sustained serious injuries.  Weve advised  her and Mr D that the Motor Insurers 
Bureau (MIB) may be able to assist with that and might be able to trace  the other driver.    
Under the policy, Tesco has the right to settle any claim as it sees fit, as long as it acts 
reasonably in doing so. I can see why Mr D and Mrs V thought it hadnt done enough, but I 
think Tescos  shown  it made a reasonable attempt  to deal with the claim before deciding  it 
couldnt pursue  it any further.
I think Tesco could have  reached a conclusion much  earlier than it did had it not caused 
delays. In particular,  it didnt give full details of the accident to the other insurer  for several  
months  and I think it should  have taken legal advice earlier than it did. I dont think  the 
delays made  a difference to the claims outcome, although they would have added to Mr D 
and Mrs Vs frustration. I have great sympathy for the situation Mr D and Mrs V have had to 
deal with, but taking everything into account, I think £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by Tescos delays  is adequate. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Tesco  Underwriting Limited 
to pay Mr D and Mrs V £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience they faced  as 
a result of its delays. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 July 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4938652