K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains Coutts & Company will not refund  some disputed transactions.
background
Miss R complained to Coutts about a large number of disputed  transactions on her account.  
They began in January 2016  and ended in February 2017.  The first time she spoke to 
Coutts about them was in June 2016  when she responded to a text message it had sent 
concerning a fraud alert. At that time,  she said she did not recognise any of the transactions  
Coutts had raised.  She told the adviser she would have to sit down and look at her 
statements in detail  to decide which transactions she did and didnt recognise.
She didnt  speak to Coutts until sometime later about the disputed transactions.  However in 
January 2017,  she did speak  to them again  to report her card as stolen  saying  her ex-
partner had used  the card in a restaurant  but had not returned it to her.
Miss R told Coutts she had been  unwell during the period of disputed transactions and had 
relied on others to take her to and from the cashpoints  and whilst she suspected  someone  
close to her as carrying them out, she didnt know who.  She also told Coutts  that a friend 
had been granted a Power of Attorney  over her financial affairs  but Coutts said it was 
never put on notice  of this and received no documentation to confirm.
Coutts responded to Miss R in October 2017.  It said it was willing to refund those 
transactions which had not been made using her CHIP and PIN (amounting to just over 
£29,000) but just over £34,000 worth  of transactions had been made using her genuine card 
and PIN.  It was not willing  to refund these.
So Miss R then came to this service  and asked us to look into matters  for her. She said she 
had not given her card or PIN to anyone else to use  and that it was always stored  in her 
bag which  she carried. She had no explanation as to how these transactions  could have 
occurred.
But our investigator did not think he could ask Coutts to do anymore.  He  explained  to Miss 
R that although he didnt think she had authorised the transactions, he thought she had 
failed to keep  her security  credentials safe and had delayed in telling Coutts that her card 
was being used without her consent.  He said this because he thought the evidence showed 
Miss R had given her card and PIN to at least two different people on separate occasions.  
On that basis, he wouldnt  be asking it to refund her money.
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I will not 
be asking Coutts  to refund this money  to Miss R.
The regulations relevant  to this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2009.  Generally 
speaking, Coutts  must  refund disputed transactions unless the evidence shows Miss R 
either authorised the transactions herself or failed to comply with her obligations  under  the 
Ref: DRN47465302PSRs.  Amongst other things, the PSRs say account holders must take all reasonable steps  
to keep their security information  like passwords  or PINs  safe.
I dont think Miss R authorised these  transactions for very much  the same reasons as the 
investigator  but I do think  she failed,  with intent, to comply with her obligations under the 
PSRs.
The terms and conditions  of Miss Rs account  say:
11.1 you and any additional  cardholder must:
-keep your card and other security details safe including  your card and PIN
13.2 Well refund the unauthorised payment in full (including any charges or overdraft 
interest which youve  paid as a result  of the payment  being  taken)  unless you:
-allowed someone to use your card, card details or security  details and/or security 
devices
There are two phone  calls which Miss R makes to Coutts in which  she confirms she had 
given her card to people  on two separate occasions.  I am satisfied from the calls that her 
PIN was disclosed too.
I accept Miss R was in a vulnerable situation  during  some parts of the time she complains 
about  and Ive thought carefully about  whether this changes my decision in anyway.   But 
Im afraid it does not. She told this service she had not given her card and PIN to anyone  but 
that cant be right. She must have  and in doing so, she not only breached the terms and 
conditions of her account but also failed to comply  with her obligations under the relevant 
rules.
For these reasons, I will not be asking Coutts  to refund this money.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4746530