K820x#14complaint
Mrs M is being  represented by her husband. Shes complaining about  AIG Life Limited 
because it didnt pay a claim on her critical illness insurance policy.
background
In 2016, Mrs M took out a life and critical illness insurance policy  with AIG Life. In November 
2017, she decided  to cancel the policy and wrote to tell AIG. It cancelled her cover on 30 
November. I understand  the last premium was paid on 1 November.
Sadly, in March 2018 Mrs M discovered  a lump in her breast  that was found to be cancerous 
and had to be removed in May 2018.  I understand she then received chemotherapy and 
radiotherapy treatment.
Mrs M tried to claim on the policy, arguing her cancer was present  before her cover was 
cancelled. AIG didnt pay out, essentially  saying  the policy terms required a diagnosis  before 
the cover  ended.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I didnt think this complaint should 
be upheld. An extract is attached and forms part of this decision.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  accept my provisional findings and made the following key points:
Mrs Ms surgeon has provided further comment, saying there  would certainly have 
been invasive  disease present in Dec 2017  when the policy was terminated. This 
along with the investigations completed  prior to her diagnosis  should satisfy the 
policy requirement for histological confirmation.
Their interpretation  of the policy wording  is that it doesnt  exclude retrospective 
claims. The medical evidence shows Mrs Ms illness  was present when the policy 
was active and this should be enough  for the claim to be paid.
The wording is ambiguous and my provisional decision shows  you have to read 
different sections together to determine the meaning. Ambiguous terms like this 
should be interpreted  in the consumers  favour.
Also, the term as Ive interpreted it would be considered  an unfair contract  term in law 
and they shouldnt be bound by it.
They also question whether AIG has acted in good faith and according  to the spirit of 
the policy.
They feel the outcome has been  affected because Mrs M didnt report the symptoms 
shed been having  in the new life insurance  application she completed in November  
2017 after cancelling her policy. But she genuinely felt the pain she was experiencing 
was due to natural  changes in her body.  Rejecting  her claim on these  grounds  could 
amount to discriminating against her on the basis of her gender.
Mrs M is the victim of an over-stretched NHS system, which  is encouraging people  
not to visit their doctor unless absolutely necessary.  She might  have  dealt with her 
symptoms differently if shed had more ready  access to her GP.
Ref: DRN41901862Theyve also referred to another  decision  published on our website, in which  they say 
the circumstances are strikingly similar. In that case, the ombudsman  decided the 
claim should be considered and they feel Mrs M should be treated the same.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
Mr and Mrs Ms response to my provisional  decision, my conclusions havent changed.
I have to consider  every  case on its own merits. Ive read the decision from my colleague on 
Mrs Js complaint that Mr and Mrs M have referred to. There  are similarities and that case 
was also about  a retrospective claim for breast cancer. But there are also significant  
differences. For example:
Mrs Js policy was taken about  six years before Mrs Ms and with a different insurer  , 
so the precise  wording  of the policy terms wouldnt have  been  identical.
Mrs Js policy was cancelled by the insurer because she missed a monthly payment. 
She said shed been  unaware  of that. In contrast, Mrs M wrote  to the insurer saying 
she wanted to cancel her policy.
Mrs J visited  her doctor two days after the insurer wrote to say her cover  had ended. 
Tests were conducted and her cancer was diagnosed very shortly after that. Mrs M 
didnt consult her doctor  about her symptoms until more than three  months after her 
cover ended.
Given there are significant differences between  the cases, its wouldnt be unexpected for 
the outcomes  to be different also.  I dont agree this shows Mrs M is being treated differently 
to anybody else.
Ive read the latest comments from Mrs Ms surgeon  in which she said invasive disease 
would certainly have  been present in December 2017. But I note she also said its 
impossible to tell for sure how long the tumour was present before it was diagnosed. Either 
way, the policy required histological confirmation  the definition  of cancer was met and this 
wasnt available for Mrs M until several months  after the cover ended.
Even if I were to conclude  there was sufficient  medical evidence  to show the policy 
requirements, including that for histological confirmation, that wouldnt mean Id now be 
upholding this complaint. Ive reviewed  the policy wording carefully  again  in light of Mr and 
Mrs Ms comments, but I dont share their interpretation. I think the terms clearly state it will 
pay out if the policyholder is diagnosed  with a qualifying  illness  and that the benefit  wont 
be paid if the cover is no longer active . Mr and Mrs M have confirmed they agree the policy 
was no longer active after 4 December 2017.
I dont think theres any ambiguity in the policy terms and theres nothing wrong with the fact 
its necessary to refer to different  parts  to interpret what happens  in this particular situation. 
Thats normal. I dont think its reasonable to expect  an insurer to foresee every possible  
scenario that could  occur and have every  part of the terms that would  apply in that scenario  
in the same section.  If policy terms had to be set out in that way, theyd end up containing 
significant repetition and being  even more lengthy than they already are.
Ref: DRN41901863I understand why Mr and Mrs M might  feel differently, but I also dont think the policy  wording 
on this subject  as I believe it should be interpreted  - can reasonably be considered an 
unfair contract term. As Ive said, Im satisfied the wording is clear and I dont think  it creates 
the kind of imbalance  between  the parties  envisaged  in the relevant law.
Views on whether AIG has acted in the spirit  of the policy  in this case  are subjective to some 
extent. But as Ive explained, Im satisfied the policy terms are clear  that it pays out on 
diagnosis of illness and doesnt pay out after the cover is no longer active. In this case, Mrs 
M first consulted her doctor more than three months  after the policy ceased  to be active  and 
I cant reasonably say AIG treated her unfairly  by declining  her claim in these circumstances.
I mentioned Mrs Ms new life cover application in November 2017  in the background to my 
provisional decision because this was something  AIG had said to our investigator. But I can 
confirm it isnt a key factor in my decision,  which is shown by the fact I didnt mention it again  
in my provisional findings. I fully accept Mrs Ms explanation that she felt the pain she was 
experiencing was down  to natural changes in her body and didnt  think  anything more  
sinister might be going on. If she had suspected something, Im sure she wouldnt have 
taken the decision  to cancel her cover.
I note Mr and Mrs Ms comments  about  the state of the NHS, but thats not something I can 
comment on here. Im considering the complaint about the actions of AIG and I have no 
authority to comment on a complaint about Mrs Ms doctor or the health service  generally. 
Ultimately, I cant  know whether things would  have been different if shed felt her doctor was 
more accessible.  But given she thought her symptoms were down to natural changes and 
nothing to worry about, I think there has to be a real possibility she wouldnt have consulted 
a doctor  any sooner even if she had felt access was more  readily  available.
 
I do understand my decision  will be a great disappointment to Mr and Mrs M. The 
circumstances of this case are extremely unfortunate and I have nothing but sympathy for 
what Mrs M has been through and the situation in which they now find themselves. But for 
the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied  AIG has acted within the policy terms and that those 
terms were clearly stated and werent unfair.  On that basis, I can only reasonably conclude it 
was entitled to decline the claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41901864extract from provisional decision:
my provisional  findings
The policy terms say AIG will pay the critical illness benefit  if:
any of the persons covered  die or are diagnosed with a terminal illness or a critical illness.
They also say the benefit wont be paid if:
the cover is no longer  active.
The policy terms define active as follows:
Active
The cover  has started, is within  its term, premiums are up-to-date and we have not written to 
the person covered or the owner of the cover to tell them that they are no longer covered.
On the basis that premiums werent up to date at that point, I think its reasonable to say the policy  
was no longer  active after 4 December 2017  when AIG wrote to Mrs M to tell her cover had been 
cancelled.
My understanding of the above terms is much more  in line with the interpretation put forward by AIG 
than by Mr M. I think its clearly stated that the benefit will be paid on diagnosis,  but not if the cover is 
no longer active. When read in conjunction, I think this amounts  to a statement  that the benefit  wont 
be paid if diagnosis occurs after the policy  ends, whether or not the condition was present before that.
I have considered Mr Ms arguments carefully, but on balance I think AIG is entitled to rely on the fact 
the policy  was cancelled a number  of months before  Mrs M sought  medical advice or received a 
diagnosis to decline this claim.
Even if I were  to accept  Mr Ms interpretation of the policy terms and agree AIG should  consider a 
retrospective claim, I still dont think thered be sufficient evidence to say it should be paid. Its 
important to understand the policy doesnt cover  all claims involving cancer. For a claim to be 
payable, the terms say the following  definition must be met:
Cancer (excluding  less advanced cases)
Any malignant  tumour  positively  diagnosed  with histological confirmation and characterised  
by the uncontrolled growth of malignant  cells and invasion of tissue. The term malignant 
tumour includes:
Leukaemia,
Sarcoma, and
Lymphoma (except cutaneous lymphoma   lymphoma confined to the skin)
The following are not covered:
All cancers which are histologically classified as any of the following
pre-malignant,
non-invasive,
cancer in situ,
having  borderline malignancy, or
having  low malignant potential.
I agree Mrs Ms surgeon has provided compelling evidence that cancer  was present some time before 
diagnosis and probably before the policy ended. But because  she didnt seek  advice or undergo any 
Ref: DRN41901865tests until later on, I dont think the histological confirmation required by the policy is available or that I 
could safely say, in its earlier stages at least, that one of the above  exclusions wouldnt have applied.
I appreciate my comments will come as a great disappointment to Mr and Mrs M and arent  what  they 
were hoping to hear. But on balance, I think the policy terms  allow AIG to decline this claim because 
no diagnosis was made until several months after it was cancelled. Even if I took a different view on 
that, I dont  think it would change things significantly as the medical evidence  needed to demonstrate 
the policy  definition of cancer was met before the policy ended isnt available.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN4190186