K821x#15Complaint
Mr M has complained about a hire-purchase  agreement that he entered into with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VW). Hes said that he was pressured into 
signing an agreement which was unaffordable  for him.
Background
In August  2018,  Mr M entered into a hire purchase agreement for a car. The purchase price 
was £27,965.00. Mr M paid a deposit of £8,000.00.  The remaining £19,965.00 was funded  
by a hire-purchase agreement  with VW. The loan had an annual percentage rate (APR)  of 
15.21% and was due to be repaid in 47 monthly instalments of around £341.91 followed by a 
final instalment of £13,387.50. 
Mr M made the first four payments due under  the agreement. But after failing to make the 
payments to the agreement from January 2019 onwards, in May 2019, Mr M sold the car 
back to the dealer he purchased it from. It used  the proceeds to settle the outstanding  
balance on the agreement minus an arrears payment.  Mr M subsequently complained to VW 
saying the agreement was unaffordable. VW didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. As far as it was 
concerned, the retailer correctly processed  the affordability checks and these demonstrated  
affordability to cover  the monthly payments set out in the agreement.  
Mr M remained dissatisfied and referred  his complaint to us. The complaint was then 
considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think the checks  carried out before the 
finance was provided were reasonable and proportionate. She also thought such  checks  
would more likely than not have shown Mr M couldnt afford  the required monthly payments. 
VW didnt agree, so the complaint was passed  to an ombudsman  for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments provided from the outset in order to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance  and law, and considering  the main reason 
for Mr Ms complaint, I think there  are two overarching questions that I needed to consider in 
order to decide  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  These  
questions are:
Did VW complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would 
be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
oIf so, was a fair lending decision made?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr M wouldve been able to do so?
Did VW act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other way?
If I determine that VW did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with Mr M and that she 
has lost out as a result,  Ill go on to consider whats fair compensation.
Ill proceed to consider  the first of the overarching  questions.
Ref: DRN43182542Did VW complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would be 
able to repay in a sustainable way?
The regulations in place when VW lent to Mr M required  it to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of whether Mr M could afford to make  his repayments in a sustainable  manner. 
This is sometimes  referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
Any affordability checks should have been  borrower-focused  so VW had to think about  
whether making  the payments sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences 
for Mr M. In other words, it wasnt enough  for VWs lending decision to only consider the 
likelihood that it would  get its money  back, or that it had the ability  to repossess the vehicle, 
without considering the impact making  these  payments would have on Mr M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount  / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate  check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check generally ought to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to repay a 
given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the 
credit is likely to be greater  and the customer is required  to make payments for a 
longer period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should be for a given  loan application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, or any substantial 
time gaps  between loans. Ive thought  about  all the relevant factors  in this case.
VWs checks
Ive considered the checks VW says it carried out in this particular case. It seems to me that 
VW is relying on its agent having gathered sufficient information to have made  an informed 
decision. But as far as I can see the checks carried out were  limited to asking Mr M about his 
living circumstances, whether he was employed  and carrying out a credit check. And while  
VW has provided the output of the credit check carried out at the time, it hasnt told us what  
was in the rest of information  gathered, in fact it has provided nothing  at all on the detail,  
which led it to conclude  Mr Ms circumstances  met its criteria.  Indeed,  it seems  to me that 
VW simply expects  us to accept Mr Ms payments  were affordable because its systems 
approved it. 
Considering VW says it gathered sufficient information, in line with its regulatory obligations, 
to inform its lending  decisions, its extremely disappointing that VW hasnt provided it to me. 
Ref: DRN43182543Equally its also disappointing that VW has been unable  to tell me what  it knew about Mr Ms 
ability to repay when it entered into this agreement  with him. For example, it hasnt even told 
us the monthly  income it had recorded  for Mr M even though the credit check showed  a 
substantial amount of existing debt and that he was in arrears  on at least one of his 
commitments. 
This service cannot and will not look for evidence and construct an argument  to support 
VWs defence of Mr Ms complaint. If VW cant, or wont, provide the information  relied  on 
and describe why it showed it was fair and reasonable to lend to Mr M then I cant  and wont  
reach the conclusion  that its checks before entering  into this agreement  were proportionate. 
Without any explanation from VW on this matter, I cant take it as read that its lending  
decision was fair. 
For the sake of completeness, Id also add that I dont  consider the fact Mr M made the first 
four payments on the agreement  on time doesnt in itself demonstrate that the monthly 
payments were affordable. I say this while  mindful of the fact that Mr M didnt,  or perhaps 
wasnt able to, make any subsequent  payments. Equally the amount of existing credit 
commitments showing  on Mr Ms credit  check persuade me that it wasnt  reasonable to 
proceed without obtaining  further  income  and expenditure information notwithstanding  the 
£8,000.00 deposit he paid.
In these circumstances, and in the absence of anything else to indicate that VW took any 
further steps to ascertain Mr Ms monthly income or regular expenditure, Im not satisfied 
that the checks VW carried  out before reaching  the conclusion  the agreement  was affordable 
for Mr M were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks more likely than not have shown that Mr M was 
able to sustainably  make the repayments to this agreement?
As proportionate  checks werent carried out before this agreement  was provided, I cant say 
for sure what they wouldve shown.  So I need  to decide whether it is more  likely than not that 
a proportionate check would have told VW that it was unfair to enter into this agreement with 
Mr M. 
Mr M has provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied for 
the finance. Of course, I accept different checks might show  different things. And just 
because something  shows up in the information Mr M has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks VW mightve  carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from VW showing what this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair and reasonable to place considerable weight on it as an 
indication of what Mr Ms financial circumstances  were more likely  than not to have  been  at 
the time.  To be clear,  Ive not looked  at Mr Ms bank statements because I think  that VW 
ought to have obtained them before lending to him. Ive consulted  Mr Ms bank statements 
because they were readily available at this stage  and they contain the information I now 
need to reconstruct the proportionate check VW should have but failed to carry out. 
Mr Ms bank statements show that he was in receipt  of an average  of around £1,500.00 or 
so a month.  VW would have been  aware that Mr M would be faced  with a significant outlay 
for insurance  for this vehicle. And when the running  costs are added  to monthly finance 
payments, its clear that a significant chunk  of Mr Ms salary  would be going towards this car 
alone. 
Ref: DRN43182544However, Mr Ms existing commitments  to credit,  bills and normal monthly living  costs 
already exceeded his monthly income.  So much so that he already had returned direct  
debits and missed payments on his existing credit and was regularly  using his overdraft. In 
these circumstances,  Im satisfied that Mr M simply didnt have the funds necessary to make  
the monthly payments to this agreement,  let alone  the associated  costs of the vehicle he 
was sold. 
Overall and having carefully considered  everything, I think  that reasonable and proportionate  
checks would have  alerted VW to the fact that Mr M wasnt able to make the payments to 
this agreement without  experiencing  financial difficulty and/or borrowing further. And so it 
follows that he wasnt in any sort of financial  position to sustainably  make the repayments to 
this agreement.     
Did VW act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other way?
Ive thought about everything provided.  Mr M has raised concerns about  the copies of the 
documentation hes been  provided and there  is an error such  as the spelling in his name. 
Ive considered the copies of the documentation. But while  there does appear to be a couple 
of typographical  errors, I dont think that there  was any fraud. 
Im satisfied Mr M agreed  to the finance  and accepted the vehicle  albeit in circumstances  
where VW didnt meet its obligations to properly assess his ability  to make the payments.
In these circumstances, Im not persuaded that any fraud took place and I find that VW did 
not act unfairly  or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other way. 
Conclusions
Overall and having thought about  the two overarching questions, set out on pages 1 and 2 of 
this decision, I find that:
VW didnt complete  reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr M to satisfy itself that 
he was able to make the payments  to this agreement; 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more  likely than not have shown Mr M 
was not in a financial  position  to sustainably make the repayments to this hire 
purchase agreement;
VW didnt act unfairly or unreasonably  in some  other way towards Mr M; 
The above  findings leave me reaching  the overall conclusion that VW unfairly and 
unreasonably entered  into this hire purchase agreement with Mr M.
Did Mr M lose out as a result of VWs  shortcomings?
Ive considered whether Mr M suffered adverse consequences as a result of VW unfairly 
entering into this hire purchase  agreement with him. As I understand it the vehicle was sold 
back to the dealership it was purchased from within a few months. Given  Mr M paid an 
£8,000.00 deposit for a vehicle that was taken back so quickly,  I think that Mr M lost out 
because of what VW did wrong.
Ref: DRN43182545So overall and having thought about  everything  provided and whats  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of this case,  I find that Mr M lost out because VW unfairly entered into 
a hire purchase agreement, which it ought  to have realised was unaffordable for him, with 
him. And this means I think that VW needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what  VW needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation  in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something  wrong, Id normally expect that business   in so far as is 
reasonably practicable   to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken  place.  In essence,  in this case, this would mean VW putting Mr M in the 
position shed  now be in if she hadnt  been  sold the car in the first place.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Mr M 
was given the vehicle in question and it has since been taken back.  So, in these 
circumstances, I cant  undo  whats already  been  done. And its simply not possible to put    
Mr M back in the position he would be in if he hadnt  been  given the vehicle in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain  the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for VW to put things right in the 
following way.
Our website  sets out the main  things we consider when looking  at putting things right in 
cases where we conclude that a lender did something wrong in irresponsible/unaffordable 
lending complaints. We usually say that the borrower needs pay back  the credit amount 
provided and that the lender should refund any interest, fees and charges that the borrower 
paid. This is because the borrower will have had the benefit  of the credit that they were  
provided with and its usually the extra paid over and above this  any interest fees and 
charges  that will have  caused the consumer to lose out. 
But I dont think that a refund of the interest fees and charges is appropriate  here. The car 
was taken back relatively soon after the agreement started. So Mr M clearly hasnt had 
anywhere near the benefit of what he was lent. He also paid a significant deposit in as well. 
Mr M did make some monthly  payments to the agreement and Im mindful  that Mr M did 
have use of the vehicle for a period. So I think its fair and reasonable for VW not to refund 
these payments (and it is entitled to collect the outstanding payments which  still remains)  as 
this fairly  and reasonably covers any fair usage  deduction from Mr Ms use of the vehicle. 
Mr M also paid a deposit to the dealer. We normally say that any deposit paid should be 
refunded. And Ive not seen anything  to suggest  that this should  happen  here, so VW should  
refund Mr Ms deposit and add 8% simple  interest a year to this. VW can then deduct the 
outstanding payment of £341.91,  which I think Mr M should have to pay to cover  his usage 
for the period he was in possession of the vehicle,  from the deposit  it now needs to refund.
Mr Ms credit file
Ref: DRN43182546Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on any loans or credit they 
shouldnt have been given. After all its the interest  and charges that the consumer is being 
refunded and the expectation is they will have repaid,  or they should  repay  what they owe.  
Ive not seen anything here which leads me to think such a direction  would  be unfair here.
So having  carefully thought about  everything, VW should remove any negative information  
that it has recorded on Mr Ms credit file about  this agreement.  
All of this means  that it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint for 
VW to put things right in the following  way:
Refund Mr Ms deposit with interest of 8% simple per year; AND
Deduct the unpaid £341.91 on the agreement from the amount that it now needs to 
pay Mr M;
Removing  any adverse information  it has recorded  about this agreement  on Mr Ms 
credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint. Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited should  put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4318254