K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Mr P complain  that certain  underwriters at the Society  of Lloyds (the 
underwriters) have unfairly  declined their business  protection insurance claim.
Mr H is the main correspondent for this complaint. So, for simplicity, I will mainly refer to 
Mr H throughout the decision. 
background
Mr H and Mr P own a holiday  let in an apartment block and hold an insurance policy  with 
Society of Lloyds that covers them against business interruption  if certain  insured perils  
occur. They  submitted a business interruption  claim in 2018 following water ingress to the 
main building roof of the apartment  block, which they claimed prevented access  to their flat 
for a period  of time due to the remedial works  that had to be carried out.
However, the underwriters said that cover in this instance was reliant on there being damage  
that was insurable  under  a buildings  or contents  policy. And given that the roof and window 
repairs were covered under the building  warranty as a result  of defective design/poor 
workmanship, the underwriters declined the claim as the damage would not have resulted in 
a valid buildings  insurance claim.  In addition, they also said that the roof and windows were 
in common areas owned  by the freeholder and were  not situated  in the vicinity  of the 
premises as required by the policy. So the underwriters said Mr H and Mr P had no 
insurable interest in the roof and no right to claim for material damage  under their buildings 
insurance.
Mr H complained about the underwriters decision and the way in which  they interpreted the 
policy. He said that although the roof is a communal part of the building,  access to the flat 
will be prevented while the contractors carry out remedial works, so the claim should be 
covered under the prevention of access extension of the business interruption  insurance.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt think  the claim met the requirements 
for cover under the policy as there  had been no business interruption as a result of damage 
insurable under a buildings or contents  insurance policy.  Mr H disagreed, so the matter has 
been passed to me to determine.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
The policy terms and conditions set out what is covered under the business interruption  
insurance:
BUSINESS  INTERRUPTION INSURANCE  SECTION
THE INSURANCE
If the business at the premises is interrupted as a result of the premises being made 
uninhabitable by any damage insurable under the Buildings Insurance Section or the 
Contents Insurance Section the company will indemnify  the insured
Ref: DRN46901952Provided that
Payment has been made  or liability admitted for the damage under an insurance 
covering the interests of the insured in the damaged property
There are then further extensions to the business interruption  insurance set out in the policy 
document:
BUSINESS  INTERRUPTION INSURANCE  SECTION  EXTENSIONS
The company will also indemnify the insured as provided in The Insurance of this 
section for such interruption as a result of
1.Prevention of Access
Damage to property  in the vicinity of the premises which prevents or hinders 
the use of or access to the premises.
Mr H has made various submissions regarding the relationship between  The Insurance and 
the prevention  of access extension, as well as how they ought to be interpreted. In summary, 
he submits that the extension should be considered in isolation  as its purpose is to provide  
additional cover  in the event there  is not an allowable  claim  under  the primary insurance (i.e. 
where there  is no insurable damage).  Mr H submits that this is how the policy  would be 
understood by the reasonable member of the public. But Im afraid  I do not accept this 
interpretation. 
A policy extension typically acts to provide additional  scope to an insured peril covered  by 
the policy, and must  therefore be read in conjunction with the primary insurance. It cannot  
reasonably be read in isolation  because it is only an extension of this insurance, and is 
therefore reliant on there being an insured peril to extend the scope of in the first place. 
It is also clear  from the policy wording of the extension that it is to be read in conjunction with 
The Insurance as it states  that the underwriters will also  indemnify the insured as 
provided in The Insurance of this section for prevention of access. So I do not consider 
that the reasonable commercial policyholder would understand this to mean that the 
extension acts to provide  cover where  none  is otherwise available under the primary 
insurance. And I think its necessary to consider the requirements for cover under  the 
primary insurance in order to establish  whether  any of the extensions  are engaged.
Was there an insured  event?
The policy provides cover for business interruption in the event that the business premises  is 
made uninhabitable by damage that is insurable under the buildings  or contents  section of 
the policy. As an addendum to this, the policy will also provide cover  where  such  damage 
hinders the use or access of the business  premises. This is the specific insured peril in these 
circumstances  which requires the damage  to be of a kind that is covered by a buildings 
insurance policy in the interests of the insured.  If these  requirements are not met, there is no 
insured event.
In the circumstances of Mr Hs claim, it is the freeholder that is responsible for insuring the 
main structure and common areas of the apartment  block, which includes the roof. So as the 
leaseholder of one of the flats in the building,  Mr H has no insurable interest in the roof and 
no right to claim for any damage caused  to it under  the freeholders policy. And it also does 
not appear that any damage has been caused  to Mr Hs flat specifically that he could claim 
Ref: DRN46901953for under his own policy. But even if there  was an insurable interest in these circumstances, 
the failure of the roof which led to the ingress of water would unlikely  be considered as 
insurable damage in any event, given that it was the result of a defective design  or poor 
workmanship, which I note is excluded under the buildings insurance section of Mr Hs 
policy.
So in these  circumstances,  there  is simply no insured event. Therefore, I do not consider the 
underwriters to have acted unreasonably by declining Mr Hs claim for business interruption, 
and I will not be directing them to cover  the claim.
I note that Mr H has also raised concerns about  the suitability of the policy.  But such 
concerns ought  to be directed to the business  that sold him the insurance, as this is not 
something the underwriters can be held responsible  for given  that they did not sell the policy.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2020
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4690195