K820x#14complaint
Mr G on behalf of Mr H has complained about the decision  by U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) 
not to pay Mr Hs claim under his home  insurance  policy and about the service he received 
from its agents.
background
Mr H made  a claim to UKI for damage  caused by water  getting into his property from his 
neighbours guttering. He said walls, carpets and some contents  in his living and dining 
rooms had been damaged. UKI appointed a restoration company to assess the damage and 
later a loss adjuster to investigate the claim.  
Mr H said the restoration company  cut off part of his carpet. UKI said it did that because it 
thought the carpet was beyond economic repair. Mr H also says the company told him he 
couldnt continue  to use his vacuum  cleaners as they had been contaminated by mould 
spores, so he disposed of them. He says he was also told to get rid of other items.
UKI declined  the claim because it said Mr Hs policy didnt cover  damage that happens  
gradually.
After Mr H complained to UKI, it sent a cash settlement to Mr H for the cost of replacing  the 
carpet. It also said it would cover the cost of replacing the two vacuum  cleaners  Mr H had 
claimed for. But it said there was no evidence that its agent had advised Mr H to dispose of 
any of the other items hed claimed for.
UKI accepted that the loss adjusters initial  letter to Mr H telling him why his claim had been 
declined wasnt as clear  as it should  have  been.  To help make  up for this and the poor 
service provided by its drying  company it paid Mr H £150  compensation.
Mr H complained to this service. He said he reported the damage to UKI as soon as he 
became aware  of it. He said the damage was originally hidden  from sight by his carpet and 
furniture. He also said it would cost him over £15,000 to put right the damage to his property 
and contents.
Our investigator didnt  think UKI had treated Mr H unfairly. She thought the damage  had 
happened gradually and it was likely that Mr H would have been aware of the damage. 
Because Mr G on behalf of Mr H didnt  agree,  the matter has been  referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like most home insurance  policies, Mr Hs provides  cover if his building  or contents are 
damaged by a range  of insured events.  These  events are listed  in the policy and include 
escape of water from a fixed water  system  and accidental  damage.  There isnt any cover  if 
damage is caused by something else. UKI agreed that thered been an escape of water  but 
declined the claim  on the ground  that the policy didnt cover  gradual damage.
Ref: DRN47590442Regardless of whether  the claim should  be considered as an escape of water  from a fixed  
water system or under the accidental damage section, the same general exclusions apply. 
One of the exclusions is for Any damage  caused gradually that you ought  to have been 
aware of and that it was reasonable for you to have prevented.
I think the wording of the exclusion is clear enough  to show  that UKI wont  pay for damage  
that happens gradually if Mr H should  have been aware of it. Mr G has explained that there 
was a large chair  covering the mould  growth on the carpet and there were shelves blocking 
the view of the damaged wall. He said Mr H only became aware of the problem when  he 
moved the chair  to clean.
But UKI said the joists  under the floor were covered in mould and rotting. This seems to me 
to indicate damage  that has happened  over a prolonged period of time.
I appreciate that some  of the damage might have  been hidden  from view. But UKIs 
technician reported  that there were different types of mushrooms  growing on Mr Hs floor 
coverings which  it said were beyond economic repair.  It has provided evidence  of rot on the 
skirting boards and said this would have produced a strong smell. A table and other  contents  
were also damaged. All in all, the extent of the damage is so great,  Im persuaded that Mr H 
ought to have been aware of it and it was reasonable for him to have prevented  it.
So I think that UKI didnt  treat Mr H unfairly  or unreasonably in relying on this exclusion to 
decline his claim.
Ive also looked  at the service Mr H received  from UKIs  restoration  company and loss 
adjuster. I can see that there was some  poor communication  from the loss adjuster.  Also the 
restoration company  should have made it clear that any contents disposed of by Mr H were 
at his own risk until if and when the claim was accepted. It shouldnt have cut a piece out of 
his carpet  without checking that Mr H wouldnt have kept it if his claim were to be rejected. 
But I think the compensation of £150  paid by UKI (in addition to a replacement  carpet  and 
vacuum cleaners) is sufficient to compensate Mr H for this and is in line with what  I might  
have awarded  if UKI hadnt already offered it.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4759044