K820x#14about the complaint
Mr P has complained about the management  of his Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP) 
and wider investment  portfolio by Aberdeen  Standard Capital Limited T/A Standard  Life 
Wealth Limited (Standard Life Wealth). He feels that Standard Life Wealths  use of the 
Strategic Investment Allocation (SIA) Fund,  for a large part of his portfolio, was unsuitable for 
his attitude to risk. 
background
Mr P, as a result of advice from his financial adviser, first met with Standard  Life Wealth  in 
August 2011.  Initially the agreement was for it to manage the investment of his SIPP  on a 
discretionary basis. Subsequently this was extended  to include ISAs, a Personal Portfolio 
and a Standard Life International Bond.
Standard Life Wealth completed a risk profiling exercise and categorised  Mr P as a low risk 
investor  initially referred to by Standard Life as low-medium but subsequently reclassified 
as low risk.
A portfolio targeting LIBOR  +2.5%  was agreed as appropriate for Mr P as this would be most 
likely to achieve his growth objectives whilst  remaining  within the required risk profile. 
Initially Mr P was happy with the service provided,  meeting regularly with Standard Life 
Wealth representatives to review his portfolio and reconfirm his attitude to risk. However 
from March 2015  onwards  he noted  a marked downturn in the performance of the portfolio 
and queried this with Standard Life Wealth. Mr P raised his concerns about the use of the 
SIA fund and its use of derivatives which he was not comfortable with. 
Despite a number  of meetings between Mr P and Standard Life Wealth  to discuss the 
performance of the portfolio, no improvement was noted and so Mr P complained  to 
Standard Life Wealth in October  2016.
This complaint led to a further  meeting with representatives  from Standard Life Wealth,  
including the Managing  Director and the Head of Investments  who sought to reassure Mr P 
that the portfolio was still suitable and that they were confident it remained an appropriate 
investment proposition.
Mr P agreed to give the portfolio  more time to recover its performance,  however by          
May 2018 there had still been  no improvement and so he transferred his portfolio away from 
Standard Life Wealth.
Mr P wrote a further complaint letter to Standard  Life Wealth  in June 2018 describing  his 
unhappiness with its service and in particular  expressing his concern  regarding the
use of the SIA fund as a major part of the portfolio. 
Mr P felt that he did not receive a satisfactory  response from Standard  Life Wealth and so 
brought his to complaint  to the Financial  Ombudsman  Service  for consideration in July 2018.  
An adjudicator investigated the complaint  and concluded that, whilst the performance of 
Mr Ps portfolio had been disappointing,  Standard Life Wealth had not acted inappropriately  
in its management  of the portfolio and that the approach it had chosen was suitable for his 
appetite for risk.
Ref: DRN43258222In response, Mr P said that investing up to 35% of his portfolio  in the SIA wasnt  generally 
regarded as good practice and it should have been limited to 10% - 15% of the portfolio. And 
he said he was concerned about the over complex  nature of the SIA, given its target market 
of low risk investors.
The adjudicator considered these  points but didnt  change  her opinion, saying that whilst the 
fund was indeed  complex in its make-up,  that did not necessarily  make  it unsuitable for a low 
risk investor.  She also said that the percentage of the overall  portfolio  that was made  up by 
this fund was decided according  to Standard  Life Wealths investment process and took into 
account that the fund was multi-asset and so was already diversified as an investment, 
making it  in Standard Life Wealths view  appropriate.  
Mr P wasnt  happy with the response and asked  for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman, so its been passed  to me for review. In his response Mr P made the following 
points in support  of his complaint.
He thought it was reasonable to compare the performance of Standard Life Wealths 
fund against other low risk funds  in the market.  He said this would confirm  if there  was a 
problem with the fund. 
He didnt think  that we should assume  that 30-35% investment of his portfolio into the 
fund was reasonable  just because Standard Life Wealth said it was.
The financial markets went up during the period  his portfolio performed, in his view, 
poorly. He thought  this wasnt right when his reason for investing  was to increase  his 
capital value.
He agreed that the fund wasnt straightforward but was complex. He said this meant it 
probably wasnt  low risk as well. He wanted  this service to look into the risks associated 
with the funds strategy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I find Im in 
agreement with the adjudicators view and for broadly  the same  reasons.
I can see Mr P feels very strongly about  how his SIPP  and overall portfolio  has been 
managed, and the investment strategy that Standard Wealth used which  he says has 
resulted in his portfolio losing value.  Hes made a number of detailed  points,  which Ive read 
and considered. But I wont necessarily respond  to every point made  rather, Ill 
concentrate on the crux of the issue.
I have some sympathy for the position that Mr P finds himself in here, but I dont think  
Standard Life Wealth has done anything wrong.  I know thats an outcome that will disappoint 
Mr P  so Ill explain why.   
Mr P says that from April 2015  to March 2018  his portfolio held with Standard Life Wealth, 
including his SIPP, lost value. He also says too much of his money  was invested in the SIA 
fund, which  he thinks is too complex  and mysterious, and has performed poorly against 
other low risk funds. 
Ref: DRN43258223Ill start by explaining  that this service doesnt consider investment performance alone  to be 
a cause for complaint. Thats because the very nature  of investing is intrinsic to risk and its 
only possible  to determine whether  investments have been  successful  with the benefit of 
hindsight. It wouldnt be fair to apply that hindsight unless it was in relation to any specific  
guarantee the investment had promised or the suitability of the initial  investment was in 
question. 
As to the former, I havent seen any evidence that Standard Life Wealth guaranteed Mr P a 
certain level of return. It did work to a target  return  which it tried to achieve, but I cant see 
that it made  any guarantees. So I cant conclude that Standard Life Wealth  didnt do what  it 
said it would  try to do and it wouldnt be fair to uphold a complaint purely about investment 
performance on that basis. 
I also note that the investment proposal document Mr P would have been given at the time 
of the advice said the value of investments can go down as well as up. You may get back 
less than you invest. The information  contained within this document does not represent an 
investment recommendation or advice. Standard  Life Wealth only provides discretionary 
management services . So Standard Life Wealth made no guarantees regarding  investment 
returns. 
In terms of the suitability  of the investment strategy, Mr P has said it wasnt  low risk, which  is 
what his own risk profile was agreed  as being with Standard Life Wealth.  In particular he isnt 
happy about the SIA fund. So Ive considered whether the original recommendation of this 
fund  and the amount of Mr Ps money that was invested into it  was suitable  for his 
circumstances and objectives at the time.  
I note Mr P first invested his pension, using his financial adviser, into the SIA fund in 2011.  
The original  strategy  was for Standard  Life Wealth to achieve a target return  of LIBOR 
+2.5%. Mr P says he was satisfied with the portfolios performance for the first four years.   
Further investment  was made using non-pension cash funds in 2013.  The target for the 
further investment  was LIBOR  + 1.5%,  although  it was agreed to invest in line with the same 
asset allocation  as the SIPP. Further funds  were invested in subsequent years   into various  
investment strategies (more aggressive  approach to risk) with a view to maximising the 
annual ISA allowance.
Ive looked carefully  at the discussions and analysis that went into each of the investments 
and Im satisfied that Mr Ps attitude  to risk was properly taken into account on each 
occasion an investment  was made.  And Im satisfied that the subsequent investment was in 
line with the agreed  attitude to risk. I note that Standard Life Wealth realigned  its risk profiles 
at one stage but this didnt expose  Mr P to further  risk. Indeed, from the evidence  Ive seen 
Mr P was keen to have  some input on the risk profile  that was used with each subsequent 
investment.
So I dont  think Standard Life Wealth has done  anything wrong  in terms of how it invested 
Mr Ps money and whether this was in line with his attitude to risk and capacity for loss.  I 
note Standard Life Wealth made reference  to Mr Ps previous investment experience,  which 
included some high risk investments, when considering his financial experience and 
particularly his tolerance to his portfolio  values  falling.
Ref: DRN43258224Mr P says that the SIA fund was a higher risk, which meant his whole portfolio wasnt 
invested in line with his overall  low attitude to risk. But I dont agree. The SIA on its own 
could be considered slightly higher risk than low, but Standard Life Wealth invested Mr Ps 
money to provide diversification and within an overall low risk profile. It cited Mr Ps aims for 
his SIPP  as being to achieve growth  within your agreed risk level and to grow the portfolio 
targeting a return  of 6 month  LIBOR +2.5% annualised  on a rolling 3 years  basis, consistent 
with a low level of risk.
And looking at the portfolio as a whole, and the overall asset allocation, I think it did that. I 
can see that  outside  of the SIA  theres a large proportion invested  in bonds and absolute  
return assets. The SIA is described as not a standalone investment and the fund is 
designed to generate an absolute return when viewed with other assets in the clients 
portfolio. As a result,  if other assets  in the portfolio  are performing well, this fund may not 
produce a positive return.  
So, as the adjudicator explained, the SIA was used in conjunction with the rest of the assets 
within Mr Ps portfolio, to diversify the risk and act as a counter balance if other assets were 
performing well or poorly. My view is therefore  that the actual portfolio Standard  Life Wealth 
constructed was not of a higher risk profile than was suitable for Mr Ps risk appetite for that 
particular investment.
A further  expectation  is that Standard Life Wealth explains how the fund works and provides 
the necessary  literature  to confirm the composition  of the fund and its aims and objectives.
Having read the information regarding the SIA fund in particular, I agree it has complexities, 
but that doesnt mean theres anything wrong  with the fund. The complexity of a particular 
investment strategy  wouldnt necessarily  confer  upon it an unsuitably  elevated risk rating.  
And I think Standard  Life Wealth has been  clear in how it fitted into an investment strategy  
for Mr Ps portfolio which, in my view,  was in line with his overall attitude to risk. And whilst I 
recognise this may be of little comfort, I also note Standard  Life Wealth has said that the 
volatility of the investment  strategy  has been low, which in my view is generally  consistent 
with a lower risk approach
.
Ultimately, here Mr P is saying that the funds poor performance is demonstrative of his 
funds having been mismanaged. And I can understand why he would be disappointed  with 
the returns generated by Standard Life Wealth.  His funds may have  produced better returns  
when compared  to market performance overall if Standard  Life Wealth had made different 
investment decisions,  or even if hed invested  elsewhere in similar risk rated  funds.
.
But however  disappointed Mr P might be, he entered into a discretionary managed  service  
with Standard Life Wealth  thereby asking it to make the decisions about how to invest  and 
manage his money.  So Standard Life Wealth was entitled to make its own investment 
decisions and adopt an investment strategy  for each of its funds. 
But its not for me to question these decisions unless theres evidence that the funds were 
managed outside  the agreed remit or that Mr P has been exposed  to a higher  degree of 
investment risk than had been agreed. And whilst I know this conclusion  will disappoint Mr P, 
my view is that the available evidence doesnt  support either  position.
Ref: DRN43258225my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4325822