K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained about the way in which Vitality Health Limited dealt with a claim he 
made under his private  medical insurance policy.
background
Mr D underwent bladder cancer treatment in 2015.  Following  this, Vitality agreed to provide 
cover under his policy for monitoring of his condition  for a period of five years. Mr D also had 
another bladder condition which was chronic  in nature and for which Vitality agreed to 
provide cover for some  treatment in 2017.
In 2018, Mr D was due to undergo a procedure to monitor his bladder cancer.  The hospital at 
which he would receive his treatment rang Vitality the day before to obtain authorisation for 
this. Vitalitys adviser was unsure whether the treatment  related to Mr Ds cancer  or his 
chronic condition.  She therefore said she couldnt  provide  authorisation there and then. She 
asked the hospital to ask Mr D to contact Vitality so that matter could be resolved.
Mr D contacted Vitality to confirm the procedure was in relation to his cancer. Vitality 
provided authorisation and the treatment  went ahead  the next day.
 
Mr D complained to Vitality about the way it had handled his claim.  He referred to problems 
hed previously experienced in obtaining authorisation for this claims.
Vitality acknowledged  it should have contacted Mr D directly to obtain the further  information,  
rather than asked the hospital  to tell him to get in touch.  It apologised  for this and offered to 
send him a tea hamper as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr D was unhappy at Vitalitys response. He referred his complaint to us. He referred  to past 
problems hed had with its service, as well as the poor way he felt Vitality had handled his 
latest complaint.  
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold  the complaint.  My 
findings were as follows:
Mr D made two complaints to Vitality in 2017, concerning his premiums and its handling of 
his claims. Vitality issued  a final response letter on each complaint, outlining how it intended 
to put things right. Mr D didnt refer either of those complaints  to us within six months  of the 
final response letter which means  he is too late to raise those matters with us now.
Mr Ds current  complaint  is about  the handling of his claim for the procedure in 2018.  The 
hospital called Vitality the day before the planned  procedure to ask for authorisation. 
Vitalitys adviser noted that Mr D had claims for two conditions - his bladder cancer and his 
chronic bladder condition   and the procedure in question  might have related to either of 
these. While the claim would clearly be eligible if it related to the former, this wasnt  the case 
if it related to the latter. The adviser explained to the hospital that she needed a claims 
reference number  which would allow her to determine to which condition the treatment 
related. The adviser  said that without knowing this she couldnt  provide authorisation but 
asked it to tell Mr D get in touch with Vitality so the matter could be resolved.
Mr D appears  to think Vitality should  automatically  have provided  authorisation to the 
hospital. However, I disagree. I think it was reasonable for the adviser to seek clarification  
Ref: DRN40689062before providing  authorisation.  Otherwise, there was a danger  that Mr D would undergo 
treatment for which he wasnt eligible for cover  under the policy.
The only error which Vitality made,  and which it has acknowledged, is that rather  than 
contact Mr D directly  to get the clarification it needed, it asked the hospital to get him to call 
it. Vitality has apologised for this lapse  in service and offered a tea hamper as a gesture of 
goodwill. I think this was appropriate. I dont think this error shows a failure to implement 
what Vitality promised in its 2017  final response letters.  The error didnt result  in a delay in 
Mr Ds treatment. I dont think that this error warrants additional  financial  compensation.
Mr D has raised  other issues about  the way in which Vitality  handled  his complaint. 
However, complaint  handling is not a regulated  activity and is outside the jurisdiction  of this 
service. I cant award compensation for the alleged failings of Vitality after Mr D raised  his 
complaint with it.
I also understand that during the course  of our investigation, Mr D raised a new complaint  
with Vitality about its failure  to reinstate his policy after it mistakenly  cancelled  it. For the 
sake of clarity, I can confirm I havent considered  that matter within  this decision. 
In summary,  Mr D is clearly unhappy  with the service he has received from Vitality both 
before and after the event  which is the subject of this complaint. He has made reference to 
these other  service issues to our investigator. But I am only able to consider the specific  
complaint which  was raised  with Vitality and subsequently  referred to us. And Im satisfied 
that Vitality dealt with that complaint fairly.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Vitality accepted my provisional decision.
Mr D didnt accept my provisional decision.  He said it was clear that the claim could only 
have related to his bladder cancer  and not to his chronic bladder condition. He furthermore 
said that, in any case,  the treatment would still have been covered under his policy even  if it 
had related to his chronic bladder  condition and therefore there was no danger that he would 
end up undergoing treatment which wasnt eligible. He said that the hospital had the correct 
claims reference number  which  was distinct from the claims reference  number  for his chronic 
condition. He therefore saw no reason why Vitality  didnt  automatically authorise the 
treatment when the hospital contacted it. He also didnt understand why I hadnt taken 
account of his complaint about  Vitalitys  mistaken  cancellation of his policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that the complaint should not be upheld.
A cystoscopy is a procedure to look inside the bladder. It is not used exclusively for cases of 
bladder cancer. I see no reason to dispute  that a cystoscopy  could have  been  undertaken in 
the treatment of Mr Ds chronic  bladder  condition.
I can see from the file notes that, in 2017,  Vitality  had agreed to provide cover  for four 
instillations in respect of Mr Ds chronic bladder condition. It hadnt  agreed to provide cover  
for any other  treatment  in respect of the condition. This means that if the cystoscopy related 
Ref: DRN40689063to Mr Ds chronic bladder condition, it wasnt necessarily eligible for cover under the policy. I 
therefore think it was appropriate for Vitality to make  sure that the treatment related to Mr Ds 
bladder cancer because  he might  otherwise  undergo treatment which  wasnt  eligible and 
therefore end up being liable for the cost of this.
Mr D says that the hospital  had the correct  claims reference which  would have allowed 
Vitality to authorise the procedure. I have listened to the telephone call in which the hospital  
asked for authorisation. After checking  the files, Vitalitys adviser explained that Mr D had 
two separate claims under which this treatment  might fall and therefore it would be best if he 
could ring in to clarify to which claim the treatment  related. The adviser didnt specifically ask 
the hospital if it had a claims reference  but at the same time the hospital didnt volunteer 
such a reference.
As a result, Mr D had to ring Vitality  to confirm that the treatment related to his bladder 
cancer and thereby obtain authorisation. I appreciate  that this may have been frustrating for 
Mr D but I maintain that the only thing Vitality  did wrong was it should  have  contacted him 
directly rather  than ask him, via the hospital,  to get in touch. Im satisfied that its apology  and 
provision of a tea hamper  was adequate  redress for its error.
Mr D doesnt understand  why I havent  considered his further complaint about  the mistaken 
cancellation of his policy. Mr D raised  this complaint separately with Vitality  during the 
course of this investigation; it wasnt part of the complaint  he originally referred to us. I 
understand that Vitality has now issued a final response.  If Mr D is unhappy with that final 
response, he may now refer the matter  to us as a new complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4068906