K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy taken out in 1995 when Mr H applied for 
a loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. Mr H didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. I explain why below.
Mr H recalls the sale being made by post and telephone. Lloyds has a screen note that 
suggests the sale was made at a branch. The policy was sold over twenty  three years ago 
so it isnt surprising  that neither Mr H nor Lloyds still have copies of the paperwork 
completed at the time. I also have to take into account that memories  can fade over time. In 
cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I have  to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  that is, to decide what is most likely to have 
happened. Whilst I dont doubt  that Mr H has provided his best recollection of these events, 
but I think it was more likely that this was sold at a branch meeting. This in itself doesnt 
affect the outcome of this complaint and as that makes it an advised sale, it places a higher 
standard on the part of Lloyds. 
Lloyds has provided  a sample  loan agreement which it says was in use at the time the policy 
was sold. I think its more  likely than not Mr H was asked to sign an agreement like this to 
get his loan funds.
On the loan agreement there is a section tilted Optional Loan Repayment Protection  and it 
has Yes and No boxes  in that section  to indicate  if cover  is required. From what we 
understand about the way these  policies were sold, this part of the loan documentation 
wouldve been completed after a conversation between the representative and Mr H. Ive 
considered what  Mr H has said, but I think its more likely than not he would have  been  
aware he had a choice about  buying the PPI policy and that he chose to take it out. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr H, so it needed  to check  that it was right for him. I think it 
was. Mr H was eligible for the policy and was employed. The main exclusions around  
employment and pre existing medical conditions didnt apply to him. 
Mr H has said that he had good sick pay from his employer, but the policy provided cover, in 
addition, to any employer  benefits Mr H had. And, potentially, it wouldve paid out for a lot 
Ref: DRN48329362longer than Mr Hs sick pay would have paid him at his full rate of pay. So, I think  the policy  
was suitable for Mr Hs circumstances even  taking into account his existing means.  
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. Lloyds didnt include 
information on the amount of interest  which would be payable on the PPI policy  over the loan 
term. But even if it had, I think Mr H would still have  bought it. Given how long the policy 
could have paid out for, if Mr H made  a successful  claim he couldve got back  quite a bit 
more than he paid for it. 
Mr H would have got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium  if he cancelled  the policy 
early. I dont  know if Lloyds thought about  this when it recommended  the policy, or if it 
explained the situation clearly to Mr H. But I havent seen anything to suggest he thought 
hed repay  the loan early. So I dont think this meant the policy wasnt right for him. 
I havent seen  anything to make  me think the policy was unaffordable to Mr H or that he had 
a need to keep costs  down.
Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But for the same reasons that I think the policy was suitable, I dont think  better  
information wouldve  stopped him from buying  it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint  about  Lloyds Bank  Plc.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4832936