K820x#14complaint
Mr D and Miss M complain about  the service they got from Clydesdale  Bank Plc trading as 
Yorkshire Bank when  applying for a mortgage.  They would like further compensation than 
that already offered by the bank.
background
Miss M had a mortgage with Yorkshire Bank.  Miss M wanted to reduce the amount she 
owed by a lump sum payment  from Mr Ds father and then to add Mr D to the mortgage.  
Miss M had an initial meeting with a mortgage  adviser on 20 January 2018  and didnt 
complete until 18 April. The process didnt run smoothly and they feel that Yorkshire  Bank 
caused them  a series of problems including:
It didnt properly record that they wanted to use a firm of solicitors different to the firm 
they originally nominated
A bank  advisor  gave  them  the wrong  bank details for the payment of the lump sum.
Mr D and Miss M were told on 14 March that the paperwork had been sent to their 
solicitor but it wasnt received until 5 April
The Bank instructed their life cover to begin in March 2018 although the mortgage  
didnt commence until later.
The Bank made lots of mistakes  throughout the process and was unapologetic in its 
final response.
The bank may have sent their paperwork to an incorrect address that the public had 
access to.
Yorkshire Bank accepted that it had incorrectly recorded the solicitors  details.  It says that 
both account details it gave were correct. In regard to life cover it said that it was a stand 
alone product  and it was normal for it to start upon acceptance but agreed to meet Miss M 
and Mr Ds concern by refunding the payments made before the mortgage began. Yorkshire 
Bank accepted that it issued paperwork initially with an incorrect valuation and that this 
should have been checked  and that the concerns Mr D and Miss M raised with Yorkshire 
Bank werent  addressed fully. 
So, Yorkshire Bank agreed to pay compensation of £300. It then only paid this partially and 
as recompense for that paid a further  £50. Our investigator felt that Yorkshire Bank  had 
compensated Mr D and Miss M fairly  and didnt recommend that this complaint should  be 
upheld. Mr D and Miss M disagreed saying in summary that they chose and trusted 
Yorkshire Bank to complete their mortgage  and look after their information which they say 
the bank did poorly
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ms fixed  rate ended  on 31 March 2018 and before that date she wanted to achieve  a 
number of things  including  reducing the outstanding balance by a payment from Mr Ds 
father, adding her partner to the mortgage and fixing the rate before 31 March.  All of this 
seemed to be achievable by that date and presumably  would have  been  except that 
Yorkshire Bank hadnt recorded properly their solicitors  details.  As a result, although  the 
Ref: DRN40890212mortgage offer went out to Mr D and Miss M on 13 March, the relevant documents  didnt go 
to their nominated  solicitor.
Of course,  Yorkshire Banks system  would  have indicated that the solicitors documents 
would have gone out. So when Mr D and Miss M contacted the mortgage adviser, they were  
assured that the documents had gone out and when  they contacted the solicitor, they were 
told that they werent received. I can see that this would have been frustrating for Mr D and 
Miss M. The mortgage adviser then got the names of the solicitors  from Miss M. Miss Ms 
email gave Yorkshire the names of the solicitors and the address  but not the firms  name as 
she had given that before. So, Yorkshire  Bank sent out the duplicate  documents  to the 
solicitors at the correct  address but addressed to the incorrect  firm. 
There was a further delay before the solicitors got those documents.  The documents  were 
eventually received on 5 April and completion  of the mortgage took place about two weeks  
later. I expect that Miss M would  have been worried about the interest rate rise on her 
existing mortgage  but I note from the complaint form that Yorkshire assured them that it 
would reimburse  any interest if this happened  and that proved to be the case. This no doubt 
would have eased that concern. 
Mr D and Miss M are disappointed the way that Yorkshire Bank handled their personal 
information and would  like an investigation.  But that appears to be a matter  more appropriate 
for the Information  Commissioners  Office than for this service.  Ive seen no evidence that 
Miss M or Mr D suffered any harm or loss as a result of any disclosure of personal 
information that would lead to compensation. I appreciate that the failure to record properly 
the solicitors details resulted in a delay  for which Mr D and Miss M should be compensated.
I know that Mr D and Miss M feel very strongly about how Yorkshire  Bank dealt with them. 
Our investigator has explained  that the banks complaint handling is not subject to our 
jurisdiction. I expect  that this mortgage application may have gone smoothly had Yorkshire 
Bank recorded properly the details of their new solicitor. This undoubtedly  caused delay. But 
this wasnt a case where Mr D and Miss M were waiting for a mortgage  to buy a house 
where such a delay could be a cause  of great distress  and I have to consider the level of 
compensation in that context. 
The major priority  for Mr D and Miss M was that they got the mortgage  before the interest  
rate changed. Yorkshire Bank missed that deadline  by a couple  of weeks but gave Mr D and 
Miss M comfort by telling them that they wouldnt suffer from the delay.  I have considered all 
the other service issues and carefully reviewed Mr D and Miss Ms submissions. My view is 
that the amount of compensation already paid by Yorkshire Bank properly compensates  
them for the issues raised by them. So, for that reason I cant  fairly uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN40890213
Ref: DRN4089021