K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Tradewise Insurance Company  Limited has refused to pay a claim on 
his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr S car rolled when parked and hit some other vehicles and a fence. Mr S initially said he 
didnt know why this happened but has more recently suggested he left the handbrake off. 
Tradewise refused to pay his claim as it says his car was unfit for the road.  Mr S says the car 
was fit for the road and has provided  the MOT and a report from a manufacturers garage. 
But he is unhappy that Tradewise has continued to refuse to deal with his claim. 
Our investigators felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  They  said:
Mr S policy says he must maintain his car in a safe and roadworthy  condition. 
Tradewise says the cars brakes were  worn and its engineers  opinion  is that if the 
brake pads were working correctly  the car wouldnt have rolled because the 
handbrake wouldve used them to make  the car stationary.
On the evidence its most likely  that the condition  of the brake pads  was a 
contributory factor in the car rolling as they were insufficient to hold it on the hill. If the 
handbrake wasnt engaged, as Mr S has suggested, its likely the car wouldve rolled 
immediately and not some 15 to 20 minutes after it was parked.
Mr S has provided an email from a manufacturers garage saying the brakes were 
low but not un-roadworthy. But Tradewise  has relied on a full engineers report. And 
its shown the brake  pad warning light was on after the accident. The MOT  advisory 
on the brakes was also some  3,000  miles before this accident and its unlikely that 
this warning light had only just come on when the car was being taken for inspection 
by the engineer.
The brake pads  werent in a roadworthy condition at the time of the accident and 
Tradewise has acted  reasonably declining the claim.
Mr S doesnt  agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. He thinks  he left the 
handbrake off and says the car rolled from a flat surface. It wasnt  on a hill. The 
manufacturers garage says the brakes  are still effective. He had comprehensive insurance 
and thinks he should be covered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
Its not our role to decide exactly what caused  this incident. But we can look into whether 
Tradewise has conducted a reasonable investigation into what happened  and whether it has 
applied the policy terms and conditions fairly when making its decision not to deal with the 
claim.
Ref: DRN42499112In this case I think Tradewise has carried out a fair investigation. It asked an independent 
engineer to inspect  the car after the incident  and the engineers report  noted that the brakes 
were unsatisfactory.  Tradewise says it was also found that an MOT check  before the 
incident advised that the brake pads were worn thin and the repairer has advised that the 
dash shows warning lights were  on for the brake  pads. And the engineer  deems the car to 
have been unfit for road usage. Tradewise says the incident is consistent  with brake failure  
and its refused to deal with the claim.
Mr S has some  evidence from a manufacturers  garage which  says that although the brakes 
are low they are still effective, roadworthy  and would pass an MOT.  And low brakes wouldnt 
cause the car to roll. But Mr S hasnt produced evidence  from an independent engineer  or 
obtained a diagnostic report from the manufacturer showing  when the brake pad dash  
warning light came on.  
Tradewises policy clearly  says in the General Conditions that Mr S must ensure  his car is 
maintained in a safe and roadworthy  condition. But in this case I think  Tradewise was 
entitled to rely on its investigation and the conclusions of the independent engineer when  
deciding that the car wasnt safe or roadworthy and that the brake pad condition caused, or 
at very least, contributed to the incident. 
Mr S may disagree with Tradewises interpretation  of the evidence  and decision to decline 
the claim but I dont  think its failed  to comply with the policy  terms or exercised its discretion 
unfairly or unreasonably when deciding to do so on the available evidence.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr S frustration, I dont see any compelling reason to change 
the proposed  outcome in this case. And I dont  think I can fairly or reasonably  require 
Tradewise to now deal with Mr S claim as hed like.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4249911