K821x#15complaint
Mrs M has complained about the way U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) dealt with her motor 
insurance claim, after she was involved in an accident that wasnt  her fault.  
background
In April 2018 Mrs M was involved in an accident in a pub car park,  when an unattended  car 
rolled into hers. She said the cars  owner  had initially offered to pay to repair her car, but she 
chose to claim on her policy. UKI contacted the car owners insurer to hold them  at fault.  But 
the other insurer didnt  accept this.
Mrs M complained to UKI as she thought it was taking too long to settle the claim and her no 
claims discount (NCD) had been affected.  She was also unhappy that UKI had sent a letter  
to her that should  have been sent to the other  insurer and she said she hadnt  been kept 
updated. She said UKI had also called her at work  for details  that shed already provided.
UKI accepted it had sent the letter to the wrong  place and that there had been some delays. 
It also agreed it had called her at work  when it shouldnt have done. It paid Mrs M £150 to 
compensate her for that. It said it had passed  her case to solicitors to progress, by starting  
court proceedings.
Mrs M remained unhappy and in November 2018  brought her complaint  to us. She wanted 
UKI to resolve the claim, as having an open  claim against her policy was affecting her 
renewal premium.
While we were  looking  into things the other  insurer  accepted responsibility for the accident. 
UKI said, as a result, it had closed the claim and recalculated Mrs Ms premium.  
Our investigator thought UKI had acted reasonably in leaving the claim open and not 
reinstating Mrs Ms NCD while  the claim was ongoing. But he thought it should have done 
more to let her know she should  have tried to get CCTV from the scene of the accident. He 
thought this had caused a delay and asked  UKI to pay Mrs M another  £100 to compensate  
her for that.
UKI didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It provided  calls which  it said 
showed it had discussed CCTV with Mrs M at the beginning  of the claim.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ms policy allow UKI to take over and defend or settle a 
claim as it sees  fit. I look to see that its done so fairly and reasonably.  Im pleased to see 
that UKI passed  the case to solicitors  and that the claim has now been  settled in Mrs Ms 
favour. UKI needed  to keep the claim open against Mrs Ms policy  until that happened,  in 
order to accurately show the status of the claim. So, I dont think  it did anything wrong in 
keeping the claim  open.
Claims where both parties disagree  about whos to blame often take some time to resolve. 
So, Ive looked  to see whether UKI caused  any unnecessary delays. 
Ref: DRN44303742Mrs M first reported the claim on 16 April. UKI contacted  the other insurer to hold their 
policyholder at fault but didnt hear back from them. Ive listened  to a call between UKI and 
Mrs M on 18 April.  In this call UKI says that CCTV might be helpful if the other insurer  wont  
accept their policyholder  was at fault.  Mrs M says shell contact the pub where the accident 
happened to see if they have any. I accept that CCTV was discussed  here,  and Mrs M said 
she would  see if she was able to get it. But I think UKI should have done more  to let her 
know CCTV is often only available for a short amount of time. At this point  UKIs  
representative had discussed a number  of possible scenarios, so I dont think  Mrs M 
reasonably expected that the CCTV would be an important  piece  of evidence that she 
needed to obtain urgently. 
UKIs notes  show that on 17 May the other drivers insurer had viewed  the CCTV. The notes 
then say that UKI needs to get the CCTV  and that Mrs M doesnt  live locally  to the pub, but 
her mother  does, so shell  ask her to get it. I think at this point UKI should have done more to 
contact the pub instead of asking Mrs M to do it. At this point the CCTV would still have been  
available, as the pub said its kept for 32 days. As the other insurer ultimately accepted that 
their policyholder was to blame, I think its likely requesting the CCTV at this point would 
have helped to resolve the claim quicker. 
UKIs notes  show that on 15 August UKIs claims handler reviewed the claim with a 
colleague who advised we should be pursuing this 100%. As a result of this UKI started its 
process to pursue the other insurer. When the other insurer  didnt  accept fault UKI then 
passed the file to solicitors on 1 October. 
I can see a further note from 2 November where UKIs representative apologised to Mrs M 
for not keeping her updated as expected. Its complaint  notes also say that it hadnt 
progressed the file despite having  decided to pursue the other insurer.  I also note that UKI 
accepted it sent the letter  intended for the other insurer  to her by accident and called her at 
work when  it shouldnt have done.
Having taken all this into consideration, I accept  that this caused Mrs M additional 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. I think UKI should compensate Mrs M for this and 
agree with our investigator that an additional £100  is a fair and reasonable amount to make  
up for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to pay   
Mrs M an additional £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused  her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4430374