K820x#14complaint
Ms Z says National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1999 at the same time as Ms Z applied for a 
credit card in one of the banks branches. The policy gave Ms Z accident, sickness  and 
unemployment cover.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms Z disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Zs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ms Zs representative says its unlikely  NatWest made it clear to Ms Z that the PPI 
was optional. But Ive looked at the paperwork from the sale and on the application 
form Ms Z selected PPI, and she signed separately to confirm  she wanted  it. The 
form set out the option to decline PPI with equal  prominence. So Im satisfied 
NatWest made it clear to Ms Z the PPI was optional and she agreed to take it out.  
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Ms Z, so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for her. It was up to Ms Z to decide  whether the policy was right for her, 
bearing in mind her ability to make her credit  card repayments if she was sick or lost 
her job. 
Its possible NatWest didnt give Ms Z all the information about the PPI that she 
needed before she made her decision.  But Ms Z chose to take out the policy and so 
appears to have wanted this type of cover.  She wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations. And the policy was competitively  priced and apparently 
affordable. Ms Z says she had savings worth  less than three months salary and she 
was entitled to six months  full pay and six months half pay if she was sick. But the 
PPI would have  paid out in addition to her work benefits and for up to 12 months. 
And it wouldve  allowed her to use her savings  to cover other living  expenses  whilst 
not working  or to keep them  intact  for her future needs.  Ms Z also said her partner 
would have helped  her, but thats not suitable alternative protection.  Its not 
guaranteed and peoples  circumstances  can change. So based  on her circumstances 
at the time of the sale and the terms of the policy, I think it unlikely Ms Z wouldve 
made a different decision if better  information had been provided.  
But NatWest  has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Ms Z because: 
Ref: DRN42852152NatWest got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms Z about that. Because  NatWest didnt tell Ms Z, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms Z.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Ms Z any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4285215