K820x#14complaint
Mr E and his ex-wife Mrs E are unhappy  that Clydesdale Bank Plc has not removed Mrs Es 
name from their joint mortgage. Mr E also says that Clydesdale  has made it difficult  for him 
to change his mortgage to a better  deal,  causing him hardship and worry.
background
Mr and Mrs E have  a mortgage with Clydesdale on a part repayment, part interest only 
basis. 
Mr and Mrs E signed a separation agreement in 2010 by which Mrs E agreed  she had no 
legal right or equitable  interest in the property. They subsequently divorced.
Mr E complained to Clydesdale in January 2019. He said he was unhappy  that his ex-wife 
was still named on the mortgage as he was to marry his new partner shortly.  His ex-wife had 
never contributed to the mortgage.  And he said that Clydesdale  had at no time asked to see 
their separation agreement. He also said that Clydesdale had rejected his mortgage  deal 
applications without  any just cause. He asked  it to offer him a better mortgage deal and 
make him a financial gesture of goodwill.
Clydesdale didnt uphold  his complaint. It said, in summary:
As a responsible  lender it was required to prove affordability when underwriting 
mortgages. Although  Mrs E had signed a separation agreement stating she had no 
interest in the property,  in order to remove her from the mortgage and title deeds 
Clydesdale would  require Mr and Mrs E to complete a transfer of title application. As 
this would result in Mr E taking  out a new mortgage  it must be able to prove that it 
would be affordable to him going forward;
Although Mr E had already discussed  this with one of the mortgage  advisers,  if he 
wished to complete  an income  and expenditure form and provide evidence  of his self 
employed income it would be happy  to review his case  on an individual basis. If he 
would like to add his new partners name  to the mortgage it would also require  details 
of her income and expenditure;
Alternatively, to allow  him to obtain a better interest rate, it could complete a product 
switch on the existing joint mortgage  as it would not require proof of income to do 
this. However, both Mr and Mrs E would  have to agree.
Mr E had also mentioned that he was unhappy with Clydesdale  sending him arrears 
letter, the fact that mortgage appointments were completed over the telephone and 
the banking industry. But Clydesdale said it had a duty of care to inform  customers of 
arrears, even for small  amounts.  It said that it mainly offered telephone mortgage 
appointments as this was what the majority of customers  wanted,  but it could arrange  
face-to-face appointments where necessary. And it was sorry he was unhappy with 
the banking industry in general.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said,  in 
summary:
If Mr E wanted to pursue the change of ownership then he needed  to contact 
Clydesdale direct and make an application.  Clydesdale couldnt make changes  on 
the basis of the separation agreement alone;
Ref: DRN48803322If Mr E didnt  want to change the ownership before the end of the mortgage 
agreement Mr E might be able to secure a different  rate on the account  with Mrs Es 
agreement.
Mr E doesnt  agree  with our investigators conclusions  and so this complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator, and for much the same reasons.  I appreciate that this will 
come as a disappointment  to Mr and Mrs E so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision. To 
be clear,  I should also say that although  Im aware that Mr E has raised further complaints 
since he first contacted this service  my decision relates only to his original complaint as 
outlined above.
Clydesdale has explained that in order to remove  Mrs E from the mortgage there would have 
to be a transfer of title into Mr Es sole name. And it says that this essentially means that Mr 
E would have to take out a new mortgage.
Clydesdale has also said that as a responsible lender it would be required it to assess that 
the mortgage would be affordable for Mr E. Its process requires Mr E to make a formal  
application and, as part of that process,  Clydesdale would want to see proof of Mr Es 
income and expenditure.
Mr E has explained that he doesnt  think that his self-employed earnings would be sufficient 
for Clydesdale  to agree his application. And he says that it shouldnt be necessary  for him to 
prove his earnings  as he has always paid the mortgage himself. But, although I appreciate  
his argument,  Im not persuaded that Clydesdales process is unreasonable.  So Im not 
persuaded that I should require Clydesdale to agree to change  the mortgage  into his sole 
name without him making a formal  application and providing the evidence it requires. I note 
that Clydesdale has said it will then consider his application on an individual  basis.
Mr E is also unhappy that Clydesdale  hasnt  agreed  to change the rate on his mortgage.  It 
has explained that, in order to do this, it would need  Mrs Es consent, and Mr E isnt sure 
that this would be forthcoming. Again, although  I appreciate Mr Es situation, Im not 
persuaded that Clydesdale is acting unreasonably by requiring Mrs Es agreement. This is 
because while Mrs E is named on the mortgage  she is legally responsible  for it. And so it is 
right that her agreement  should be required to any amendments to the terms of the 
mortgage.
Finally, I note that Mr E also complained  that he was unhappy with Clydesdale sending him 
arrears letters and the fact that mortgage appointments were completed over the telephone.  
But I dont find that Clydesdale has acted unreasonably in relation to these issues.  And 
although I note that Mr E is unhappy with the banking industry in general, this doesnt 
change my view of his complaint as set out above.
Ref: DRN48803323my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 June  2020.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4880332