K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about two short term loans that he took out with Evergreen Finance London 
Limited, trading  as MoneyBoat.co.uk, (EFL), which he said were  unaffordable.
background
This complaint is about two short term loans EFL provided to Mr C between 
July 2018 and November 2018.  The loans were respectively repayable  by five and six 
monthly instalments.  Loan 2 hasnt been  repaid. Mr Cs borrowing history  is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date
Loan amount 
Highest repayment  
amount 
1. 9/7/18 30/10/18 £300 £91.88
2. 5/11/18 Outstanding £400 £112.58
EFL in its final response letter said that the results of its credit checks left it satisfied that
Mr C would be able to sustainably meet  the loan repayments. It assessed the affordability of 
each loan by requesting  income and expenditure details from Mr C and it verified  Mr Cs 
salary through  copies  of his bank statements. It said that he had sufficient disposable 
income to meet the loans.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Cs complaint about both the loans. She said that the information  
gathered by EFL showed that Mr C was having  problems  managing his money. She noted 
that Mr C had at least three  outstanding loans with other lenders when Mr C applied for each 
loan. She thought that EFL ought  to have realised  it was unlikely Mr C wouldve been able to 
sustainably repay  these loans.
EFL disagreed and said that given the infancy of its relationship with Mr C its checks  were 
proportionate and reasonable. It also said there were inconsistencies in the assessments 
received from this service.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
I note that EFL referred to previous assessments received from this service. But we assess  
each case on its own merits. And it isnt always appropriate to compare the outcomes of 
complaints without a detailed  understanding of the specific facts of each  complaint.
When EFL lent to Mr C the regulator  was the Financial Conduct  Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  The CONC 
contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
EFL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr C could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Cs 
Ref: DRN40678722income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I 
think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that EFL should fairly and reasonably have  done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr C. These  factors  include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that EFL was required to establish whether 
Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because CONC defines  sustainable as being  without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
EFL did a number  of checks before it lent to Mr C. It asked him for details of his income and 
expenditure. Mr C declared his monthly income  as between £1,450 and £1,500 and his 
expenditure ranged from around £1,052 to £1,125. His declared expenditure included  credit 
commitments of £350. 
I also note that EFL checked  Mr Cs credit  file before agreeing to the loans. EFL has 
provided this service with a copy of its credit checks.  I shall refer to these below. 
Weve also received a copy of Mr Cs own credit  report and I shall refer to this below. 
When a lender carries  out a credit check, the information it sees doesnt usually provide the 
same level of detail that a consumers credit search will and it isnt necessarily up to date. 
So, this may explain  any differences between the information  provided by EFLs credit  check 
and Mr Cs actual situation.  Im also aware  that not all payday  and short term lenders report  
Ref: DRN40678723to the same  credit reference agencies. So Mr C may have taken other  payday  or short  term 
loans shortly before EFLs  loans, which may not have been identified  by EFLs credit  checks.
Loan 1
I can see that the loan was repayable  by five monthly repayments with a highest repayment 
of £91.88. I can also see that EFL calculated Mr Cs disposable income as £397.50.  
Ive seen the results  of EFLs credit checks before Loan 1. I think  the credit checks should be 
used to ensure  that there is nothing  in the available  information that might show  the 
proposed loan is unaffordable. And a lender needs  to react  appropriately to the information 
shown on such checks. 
I can see on EFLs credit check  that Mr C had 13 active credit accounts  and that six 
accounts had been opened in the previous six months. Mr C had a total outstanding loan 
balance of £4,660. The check showed  no county court judgements,  no bankruptcy,  no 
defaults and no delinquent accounts in the previous  twelve months.  But the credit check did 
show an outstanding  loan balance of £375 (described as an unsecured loan but likely to be 
a short  term loan)  with repayments  of £137 and it appears there were recent missed 
payments on this loan.  There  was another loan balance (described  as an unsecured loan but 
likely to be a short term loan with a balance of £437  and a regular payment of £142 and 
another loan balance  of £816  (described as an unsecured loan but likely to be a short term 
loan) with repayments  of £132. The monthly repayments for these three  loans appeared to 
total around £411. In addition Mr C had two personal loans with monthly repayments totalling  
£225 and a number of credit cards.
Its clear that EFLs checks before Loan  1 showed that Mr Cs credit  commitments were 
much larger than those declared by Mr C and would have  been repayable  at the same  that 
Mr C needed to make repayments  to EFL. I think all this should have suggested to EFL that 
Mr C was having problems managing  his money. 
Where a lender  is aware of such things, and even in the case  of early loans in a chain with 
relatively moderate monthly  repayments, I dont think its unreasonable or disproportionate to 
expect a lender  to carry out further enquiries  to find out whether a consumer is going  to be 
able to sustainably  repay his loan.  So I think it would have  been  proportionate for EFL to 
have asked some questions about what the credit checks showed. I cant  see that it did this.
So Ive tried to find out more about  this by looking  at Mr Cs credit  report and bank 
statements for the month prior to Loan  1, to see what better checks  would have suggested to 
EFL. I note from Mr Cs bank statements  that he had three outstanding short  term loans from 
three other lenders which appeared to be those  Id identified  as short  term loans on EFLs 
credit check.  As Ive said above I think these suggested that Mr C was having  problems  
managing his money and I dont think it was reasonable for EFL to lend him Loan  1.
Loan 2
Loan 2 was taken out just six days after Loan  1 was repaid and the loan amount had 
increased to £400.  I can see that the loan was repayable by six monthly  repayments  with a 
highest repayment of £112.58.  I can also see that EFL calculated  Mr Cs disposable income 
as £375. 
Ref: DRN40678724I can see on EFLs credit check  that Mr C now had 18 active credit accounts although his 
total outstanding loans  balance had decreased slightly to £4,313.  Again the check showed 
no county court judgements, no bankruptcy, no defaults and no delinquent accounts in the 
previous twelve months. But the credit check also showed that Mr C had six outstanding  
loan balances each  described as an unsecured loan but likely to be a short term loan. The 
monthly repayments for these appeared to total around £834.
I think EFLs credit checks showed that Mr Cs short term borrowing was significantly 
increasing and that Mr C had an apparent reliance on short  term borrowing as well as having  
long term loans and a number of credit  card balances. The short  term loan repayments  
would have been repayable around the same time that Mr C needed to make repayments to 
EFL. So, again  I think that EFL should have been concerned about whether it knew enough  
about Mr Cs financial situation before  lending  to him. So I think  it would have been 
proportionate for EFL to have asked some  questions about what  the credit checks showed. 
Ive again tried to find out more about what proportionate checks would have suggested to 
EFL by looking at Mr Cs credit report and bank statements  for the month prior to Loan 2. I 
note from Mr Cs bank statements and credit  report that he appeared to have three  
outstanding payday loans  from other lenders totalling around  £1,000  as well as five of the six 
short term loans Id identified on EFLs credit checks. So I think its clear  that Mr C was 
having serious problems managing his money  and I dont think it was reasonable for EFL to 
lend him Loan  2. 
So Im upholding  this complaint and EFL should  put things right as follows.
putting things right  what EFL needs  to do
Refund all interest  and charges Mr C paid on Loan 1 and pay interest of 8% simple a 
year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid to the date 
of settlement*;
Refund all interest  and charges Mr C paid on Loan 2 and pay interest of 8% simple a 
year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid to the date 
of settlement*;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 2;
Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  2 and 
pay any balance to Mr C; 
Remove all adverse entries  about Loans 1 and 2 from Mr Cs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EFL to take off tax from this interest. EFL must  give Mr C 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. If EFL intends to apply 
the refunds to reduce  any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after deducting the tax.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint I order 
Evergreen Finance  London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, to:
Ref: DRN406787251.Refund all interest  and charges Mr C paid on Loan 1 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
2.Refund all interest  and charges Mr C paid on Loan 2 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
3.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 2;
4.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  2 
and pay any balance  to Mr C; and
5.Remove all adverse entries  about Loans 1 and 2 from Mr Cs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EFL to take off tax from this interest. EFL must  give Mr C 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. If EFL intends to apply 
the refunds to reduce  any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4067872