K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, (NDL), was irresponsible  when it 
agreed to open  a credit card account for him and when it later increased his credit  limit on 
two occasions.  Mr H says the credit  was unaffordable for him. 
background
Mr H opened a credit card account  with NDL on 21 February 2014. NDL gave him a £250 
credit limit to start with. But it then increased  the credit limit to £550 in August 2014 and 
again increased it to £1,300 in July 2015.  The account went into arrears  and the debt was 
sold to a third party,  (T),  in July 2016.
Mr H said that NDL should  never have allowed him to open  an account.  When  he
applied, NDL should have  checked his credit  record. It would have seen he had recent
missed payments to his overdraft, and a default  for this only just before. His overdraft had 
been increasing for several months in a row. 
In addition, Mr H said that NDL should never  have  increased his credit  limit. He had only 
made minimum payments  for a long while and he was using  a very high level of his credit 
limit. This should have  shown NDL that he couldnt  repay his balance within a reasonable 
length of time. So, NDL shouldnt have let him borrow more. If the lender had properly 
checked Mr Hs credit record before  increasing the credit limit, it would have seen that in the 
two years since his account had been opened, additional late payment markers and defaults  
had been put on his credit file and hed taken  out a lot of other credit.  This should  have 
warned NDL that he was struggling with his finances and it was not responsible for it to lend 
him more.  By increasing Mr Hs credit limit, NDL made his financial position worse.  In 2014, 
his monthly take home pay was £1,000 but his monthly expenses were  £1,200  and his 
monthly debt repayments were over £100. The minimum repayments  to NDL were over 
£100. Mr H couldnt  afford  his existing debt and he was having to borrow more every  month.
In its final response letter,  NDL said it had considered the information Mr H supplied  on his 
credit application  and the information held at the Credit Reference  Agencies (CRAs). Mr H 
said he had an annual  income of £16,000.  He also had one defaulted account, but this 
occurred 37 months prior to his application. NDL said that Mr H met its acceptance criteria 
and as a result, he was provided  with its card and a credit  limit of £250. 
NDL said that it regularly  reviewed how Mr H was using  the card, along with how he was 
managing his other credit commitments. It said that this type of review  might result in either  
an increase or decrease to the credit limit. In August 2014, Mr Hs account was reviewed, 
and his credit limit was increased from £250  to £550. This increase was offered in a letter 
dated 20 August  2014 and Mr H was provided with an opportunity to opt out of the
increase. But it had no record of Mr H contacting it to opt out of the credit limit increase.
A further  review took place in July 2015 and the credit limit was increased from £550  to 
£1,300. It again had no record of Mr H contacting it to opt out of the credit limit increase.
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator noted that at account  opening NDL had completed a credit check  and asked  
Mr H about his income. She said it was reasonable for NDL to have relied on the information 
Mr H provided  at the time. She appreciated NDLs credit check showed that Mr H had one 
Ref: DRN44312492default but given the proposed credit limit was a minimal amount and there was nothing  else 
concerning on the credit  file, she didnt think NDL needed to do anything  more. 
The adjudicator had then reviewed Mr Hs account  management before  the first credit limit 
increase. She could  see that hed exceeded  his credit limit on several  occasions  and felt this 
raised concerns  about his financial situation  which  shouldve prompted NDL to have 
completed a more detailed review  of Mr Hs financial  circumstances. Shed reviewed Mr Hs 
bank statements and concluded that it wasnt sustainable to lend to Mr H. 
The adjudicator noted that Mr H continually  exceeded his credit  limit before the second  credit 
limit increase. She thought this showed he was struggling financially. Shed again reviewed 
Mr Hs bank statements and concluded  that it wasnt sustainable for NDL to lend. The 
adjudicator said that by approving this credit limit, NDL was increasing Mr Hs indebtedness 
to NDL, and his overall indebtedness.  She recommended  that NDL pay Mr H some 
compensation and remove  any negative information  from Mr Hs credit  file from the time of 
the first credit limit increase.
NDL disagreed with the adjudicators recommendations.  It said that at the point of the first 
credit limit increase, there were no financial difficulty or affordability indicators reported to it 
by the CRA it used.   Additionally, the CRA reported a low overall indebtedness  and so NDL 
didnt think it had any reason to believe  that an increase of £300 to a total credit limit of £550 
would not be sustainable. NDL said that it often  started with a low credit limit and reviewed 
the account with a view to increasing  at regular intervals.   Whilst overlimit  fees were  incurred 
early on, NDL didnt  think  this was indicative of Mr H not being able to manage the account, 
but more that when  he first used the account, the total transactions  meant he had exceeded 
the given limit by £14.95 by his first statement. This then had a knock-on effect until he paid 
the balance in full in May 2014.   NDL didnt believe that there  were  any financial difficulty 
signals at this point and Mr H had paid the account in full.
But NDL could see that after the first credit  limit increase, the risk data had changed.  The 
number of active accounts shown by the CRA increased as had Mr Hs overall indebtedness.  
It also started to see the worst status  field in the credit file change. NDL said that it now 
thought that the second credit limit increase was not appropriate,  and it was willing  to refund 
all interest and charges  applied after the second increase. This would be offset against any 
balance outstanding with T.
The adjudicator asked NDL if it would also remove any associated adverse information on 
Mr Hs credit file.
NDL responded  to say that it didnt agree to amend Mr Hs credit file, as it was obliged to 
provide a true reflection of Mr Hs payment history. It calculated at that time that a total 
refund of £212.09  would  be offset  against  Mr Hs outstanding balance.
Mr H said that he wouldnt accept NDLs offer as he wanted the adverse information to be 
removed from his credit file and for the outstanding balance to be cleared.  
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H 
and to NDL on 12 February 2021.  I summarise  my findings:
Ref: DRN44312493As NDL had agreed that the second credit limit increase  wasnt appropriate, I said that I 
didnt intend to investigate this but would include the redress  for it in my redress  section.
I noted that the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) was the regulator when Mr H applied  for the 
credit card. The Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA)  was the regulator when NDL increased 
the credit  limits on the account. The relevant rules and guidance set out by the OFT and the 
FCA were similar,  with the FCA rules and guidance  referencing what went  before. The rules 
and guidance  of both regulators obliged NDL to lend responsibly and were respectively  
contained in the OFTs Irresponsible Lending  Guidance (ILG) and the FCAs Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook  (CONC).
Guidance issued by the OFT in early 2008 explained that its aim was to ensure that an 
appropriate standard of consumer protection was in place,  telling  lenders  that the way you 
operate any aspect  of a business might  well be relevant to your fitness  to hold a consumer 
credit licence. 
Irresponsible lending  was included in this guidance as an example of an unfair or improper 
practice, and defined as being contrary to the provisions of section 25(2B) of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974, by failing  to take reasonable care in making loans  or advancing  lines of 
credit, including making only limited or no enquiries  about consumers' income before offering 
loans, and failing to take full account  of the interests of consumers  in doing so. 
In early 2010 the OFT published  the ILG. Paragraph 4.2 of the ILG stated: 
Whatever means and sources of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit  sought  being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than 
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question. 
Paragraph 4.3 stated:  The OFT regards in a sustainable manner in this context as meaning 
credit that can be repaid  by the borrower:  without undue difficulty  in particular without 
incurring or increasing  problem indebtedness   over the life of the credit agreement  or, in the 
case of open-end  agreements, within a reasonable period  of time  out of income and/or 
available savings, without  having to realise  security or assets. 
This meant that NDL needed to check that Mr H could afford  to meet  his repayments in a 
sustainable manner,  in other  words  being  able to meet his repayments out of his normal  
income without having  to go without or borrow further.
The ILG and CONC werent prescriptive about  what checks  NDL needed to carry out in 
order to reasonably assess whether or not Mr H would  be able to meet his repayments 
sustainably. But the regulations said that such checks  needed  to be proportionate. This 
suggested that the same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, 
or for the same consumer  in all circumstances.
In general, I would expect  a lender  to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to 
the consumer  of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, I 
would expect a lender  to seek more assurance  by carrying out more  detailed checks. These 
factors include:
  the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any credit 
repayments from a lower level of income); 
Ref: DRN44312494  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more  difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular level of income);
  the longer the period of time during which a customer had been  given credit (reflecting the 
risk that repeated  refinancing might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable). 
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.  
In the case of credit cards, a lender  needed to assess whether a borrower could afford to 
repay the credit within a reasonable  period of time.  What constituted  a reasonable period of 
time wasnt defined but the ILG suggested  the borrower should be able to repay the credit  
on a timeline at least akin to that used for other  forms of unsecured lending such  as fixed 
sum personal loans,  made for an amount  equivalent  to the credit limit.
With regard to assessing a credit  limit, the box under  Section 4.6 of the ILG said  We 
consider that the credit  limit should have been set by the creditor  (presumably aware of the 
borrower's current disposable income and any reasonably foreseeable future changes in the 
level of his disposable income - for example, if the borrower is close  to retirement age and 
facing a significant fall in disposable income) on the basis of having undertaken an 
appropriate affordability assessment.
CONC also required a lender to undertake an assessment of the consumers 
creditworthiness before significantly increasing the credit limit for a credit  card.  
CONC 5.3.1G said that: 
(9) For a regulated credit agreement for running-account credit  the firm should set the credit  
limit based  on the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by 
CONC 5.2.2R (1) and taking into account  the matters  in CONC 5.2.3 G, and, in particular, 
the information it had on the customer's current disposable income taking into account  any 
reasonably foreseeable future  changes.
Bearing all of this in mind, Id considered  the following questions:
 - did NDL complete reasonable and proportionate  checks when assessing Mr Hs credit  
application and credit limits to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the credit  in a 
sustainable way?
 - if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks  have shown?
 - did NDL make fair lending decisions?
Did NDL complete reasonable and proportionate  checks? 
Account application
Id noted that NDL had carried out a credit check before Mr H opened  his account. NDL had 
seen a defaulted account on its check which occurred more than three years before his 
application. This didnt appear to have given  it concerns. 
We hadnt received  a credit report from Mr H which showed his credit  commitments at the 
time of his application  for the credit card and at the time of the first credit  limit increase. So, I 
Ref: DRN44312495couldnt say that there were any entries  on this that might  have  given NDL additional 
concerns.
But I thought that NDL also needed  to consider  Mr Hs monthly net income and regular 
expenditure, including his other regular credit  commitments to reasonably assess whether 
Mr H could manage to meet repayments on his credit card account.  As shown above, the 
ILG presumed  this information  would  be gathered  by a lender when setting a credit  limit. 
Id noted that Mr H had declared an annual income  of £16,000 and I could see that NDLs 
application data showed he had an unsecured credit balance of £1,700.  But I couldnt see 
that it had obtained any other information about his expenditure. So, I couldnt see that NDL 
had carried out a proportionate  check when Mr H applied for the credit card. 
Credit limit increase on 28 August 2014
As Id said above,  CONC specifically mentioned  taking into account  a customers  disposable 
income when setting a credit limit.  
NDL told us:-
When making a decision to increase a credit  limit we would consider things such  as 
utilisation, account maintenance as well as Bureau  data and our own internal risk strategies. 
At the time of the increases Mr [H] had passed the Affordability and Financial Difficulties 
checks that we are required to complete. We also checked for Over  Indebtedness,  Credit 
Utilisation, Arrears, CCJs and Defaults using bureau information, of which  also passed the 
criteria. Late payments  will not affect  a credit limit increase offer, as long as the customer  
does not allow the account to become delinquent  and pays  before the next statement is 
issued. The same applies when a customer exceeds the credit limit. In the instance that a 
customer exceeds the credit limit, as long as appropriate action is taken within  the statement 
month to bring the account back in order, this will not affect the increase. Only if the account 
remains over its limit or delinquent at the time the increase is due to take effect will the offer 
be withdrawn.
I hadnt seen any information gathered by NDL before the credit limit increase other than 
what it had told us in its response to the adjudicators view and information about how Mr H 
had managed his card repayments in its risk data. 
The credit checks carried out by NDL appeared to provide no concerns. 
In addition, NDL didnt  think  the overlimit fees Mr H incurred early  on were  indicative of him 
not being able to manage the account.
Id reviewed NDLs risk data which showed Mr Hs spending and payments on the card 
account. I could  see that Mr H had spent around £247 in the month after account opening. I 
could see that £140 was spent on cash withdrawals which could be a sign of financial 
difficulties. So, after his first month, Mr H was already very near his credit  limit. It then 
appeared that Mr H didnt  make any payments to the account in April 2014. He then repaid 
his full statement  balance  in May 2014. He then paid £5 towards  a balance of £247.55  in 
June 2014. It was difficult to tell from the account  terms received from NDL if this was the 
minimum payment at the time or less than the minimum  payment.  Mr Hs account again  
exceeded the credit limit in July 2014,  but this appeared to be mainly because an overlimit 
fee was incurred. And Mr H had increased  his monthly repayment to £38.01 in July 2014. 
Ref: DRN44312496Id noted that NDLs account terms say the credit  limit is the total amount  a borrower can 
borrow from NDL at any one time and that a borrowers balance  must never be more  than 
their credit limit. But I could see that Mr Hs account balance had exceeded the credit limit for 
four of the six months  prior to the first credit  limit increase. And in the month of the credit  limit 
increase, the account balance was only around  £4 below the credit limit. 
Overall, despite the full balance being  repaid in May 2014, I couldnt  see that Mr H was 
acting in line with the account terms for most of his time as an account  holder before the 
credit limit increase. So, I didnt think the credit  limit should have been increased  without 
NDL carrying  out more  checks. And I thought  that it would have been  proportionate for NDL 
to have obtained information  about  Mr Hs then disposable income and any short term 
financial commitments  in view of his borrowing history with it.
We hadnt received  any other evidence from NDL to show that it obtained any information 
from Mr H about his income, regular expenditure and short  term financial commitments  at 
the time of the first credit  limit increase. Nor could I see that wed received any information  
from NDL about a credit check around the time of the increase. The most  recent  credit  check  
information appeared to be from April 2014  which showed that Mr H had three  credit  cards 
with a balance  of £221.
So overall, I didnt  think that NDL had carried out a proportionate check  on Mr Hs ability  to 
repay his credit in a sustainable manner when  it increased his credit  limit in August 2014, 
notwithstanding that the lender said it had considered bureau data and checked for 
affordability and financial  difficulties. 
But the failure to carry out a proportionate  check in itself didn't mean that Mr Hs complaint 
should succeed. I also needed to be persuaded that what I considered to be proportionate  
checks would have  shown  NDL that Mr H couldn't sustainably  afford  the credit. So, Id 
looked at Mr Hs bank  statements  to see what better  checks  would have shown  NDL.
What would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown and did NDL make fair 
lending decisions? 
Account opening
As Id said above,  I would have expected NDL to obtain  information about Mr Hs regular 
expenditure before lending and I couldnt  see that it had done that. Mr H had provided some  
bank statements from around the time hed applied for the credit  card.  I wasnt  suggesting  
that this was the check that NDL should have done. But I thought  looking at his bank 
statements gave me the best picture  of what the lender should have seen. 
Id reviewed Mr Hs bank  statements for the month  before  hed opened the account to see 
what better checks would  have shown about  Mr Hs expenses. Although Mr H told us in his 
complaint form that he was spending  £1,200 on regular  expenses and £100 on debt 
repayments, I could  see very little expenditure on living costs  on the bank statements wed 
received. But I could see that Mr H had two other  bank accounts from the transfer 
information on his statements. So, Id asked the adjudicator to ask Mr H for the statements 
for these  accounts to see if these showed  other spending on living costs. Wed  received the 
statements for one of the accounts which was another current  account.  The other account 
was a savings  account. Having reviewed  the statements  for the second  current account, I 
couldnt see specific expenditure  on living costs.  
Ref: DRN44312497Mr H said that when  he opened the account, there  were recent missed payments to his 
overdraft, and a default for this only just before. Mr H said that his overdraft had been 
increasing for several months in a row. Id seen bank statements for Mr Hs main current 
account from 2 January  2014, but his account  hadnt  been overdrawn from that date to the 
date hed taken  out the credit card. I could see on the second current account  that a 
payment for around £39 had been  returned in mid-January 2014 and had then been 
represented a week later when there were no funds in the account  and had been  returned 
again. But overall, I didnt think this would  have given NDL additional concerns. 
Overall, I wasnt persuaded that better checks would reasonably  have led NDL to conclude  
that it shouldnt  have lent to Mr H. I didnt think the bank  statements showed any obvious  
evidence that Mr H was facing problems managing his finances and that the credit limit of 
£250 would  be unsustainable for Mr H. And I didnt think his finances  would  have appeared 
under so much pressure  that NDL should have  declined his application.
Credit limit increase August 2014
It seemed to me that NDL didnt properly consider Mr Hs wider financial circumstances 
when increasing  his credit limit, despite explaining  that its assessment  took into account 
various checks.
As Id said above,  I would have expected NDL to obtain  information about Mr Hs income,  
regular expenditure and short term lending  before  increasing his credit  limit and I couldnt  
see that it did that. 
Id reviewed Mr Hs bank  statements (including the second current  account statement) for 
several months before the first credit limit increase  to understand what  his income, living 
costs and credit commitments were  around  that time. Id also taken into account Mr Hs 
spending patterns  to get a better picture  of Mr Hs financial situation. Im not suggesting  here 
that these are the checks that NDL should  have  done. But I thought looking at his bank 
statements gave me the best picture  of Mr Hs wider  circumstances which  the lender would 
have likely seen if it had made better checks. 
I could see that Mr Hs living costs  had increased substantially since hed taken  out the card 
and his expenditure on his credit commitments was around the same level as when hed 
taken out the card.  I could  also see that Mr H needed to take out a short term loan each  
month to supplement  his income.  I thought  the regular spending and borrowing patterns 
shown on Mr Hs bank statements would likely have caused NDL some  concerns had it 
made better checks before increasing the credit limit. In Mr Hs circumstances I thought 
there was a significant risk that Mr H wouldnt have been able to repay a balance  around the 
amount of the new credit limit within a reasonable period of time without having  to go without 
or without  borrowing further. So, I wasnt persuaded that NDL had acted fairly in increasing 
Mr Hs credit limit at this point.
So, I intended to say that NDL could have  done more before providing  the credit  card and 
before increasing  the credit limit in August 2014. And if it had made better checks, it was 
likely to have found that Mr Hs circumstances at the time of the first credit limit increase had 
suggested that the additional credit wasnt likely to be sustainable. So, I wasnt persuaded 
that NDL had acted  responsibly at that time. Subject to any further representations by Mr H  
or NDL my provisional decision was that I intended  to uphold this complaint  in part. I 
intended to order  NDL to put things right as follows. 
  
Ref: DRN44312498What NDL should do to put things right 
NDL has already agreed that it shouldnt have increased Mr Hs credit limit a second  time. 
NDL has agreed to refund all interest and charges applied  after the second credit limit 
increase. It said that this would be offset against the balance outstanding with the debt agent  
(should there still be one), but if Mr H has since paid the balance then the refund would go 
directly to him. But it didnt agree to remove adverse information  on his credit file. 
Where we find credit to have been agreed  irresponsibly,  this Services approach to putting 
things right includes the removal of adverse information on the consumers credit  file as the 
credit shouldnt have  been lent. I see no reason why the adverse entries on Mr Hs credit file 
arising from the second credit limit increase shouldnt be removed here once any amount 
owed has been  settled. 
In order to put things  right for him NDL should: 
a) remove all interest and charges on the account arising from transactions made on or after 
the date of the first credit limit increase  (CL1 date);  and 
b) add the capital  cost of any transactions made after the CL1 date to the outstanding 
balance Mr H owed prior to the CL1 date; 
c) treat any payments Mr H had made since the CL1 date as payments towards the balance 
calculated in a) + b). 
d) If this clears  the balance any funds remaining should be refunded to Mr H along with 8% 
simple interest* calculated  from the date of these overpayments to the date of settlement or 
if an outstanding  balance remains, NDL needs to treat Mr H sympathetically and fairly, which  
may mean agreeing an affordable repayment plan with him; and
e) remove any negative  information about the account from the CL1 date onwards from      
Mr Hs credit file once  any amount  owed  has been  settled. 
As the debt has been sold to a third party (T) NDL should either repurchase  it and ensure  
the above steps are carried out or liaise with T to bring these about
* HM Revenue & Customs requires NDL to take off tax from this interest. NDL must give    
Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax it has taken off if he asks for one. If NDL intends to 
use the refunds  to reduce  an amount Mr H owes, it must do this after tax.
Mr H responded to my provisional decision to say that he agreed it. He wanted confirmation 
that the default and charges would be removed.
NDL responded  to my provisional decision to say it was happy to settle the case in line with 
my provisional decision. It confirmed  that it would ask T to update Mr Hs credit file and 
remove the default.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr H was seeking confirmation that the default and charges would be removed. I 
note that NDL has confirmed that it will ask T to remove  the default  from Mr Hs credit  file. 
And as Ive said above in my redress section, Ive ordered NDL to remove all interest  and 
charges on the account arising  from transactions made on or after the date of the first credit  
Ref: DRN44312499limit increase and to remove  any negative information about the account from the CL1 date 
onwards from Mr Hs credit file once any amount owed has been  settled.  
Otherwise, given that Mr H and NDL have given me nothing further to consider,  I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  It follows  that I 
uphold part of the complaint and require NDL to take the steps and pay Mr H some 
compensation as set out below. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua,  to:
a) remove all interest and charges on the account arising from transactions made on or after 
the date of the first credit limit increase  (CL1 date);  and 
b) add the capital  cost of any transactions made after the CL1 date to the outstanding 
balance Mr H owed prior to the CL1 date; 
c) treat any payments Mr H had made since the CL1 date as payments towards the balance 
calculated in a) + b). 
d) If this clears  the balance any funds remaining should be refunded to Mr H along with 8% 
simple interest* calculated  from the date of these overpayments to the date of settlement or 
if an outstanding  balance remains, NDL needs to treat Mr H sympathetically and fairly, which  
may mean agreeing an affordable repayment plan with him; and
e) remove any negative  information about the account from the CL1 date onwards from      
Mr Hs credit file once  any amount  owed  has been  settled. 
As the debt has been sold to a third party (T) NDL should either repurchase  it and ensure  
the above steps are carried out or liaise with T to bring these about
* HM Revenue & Customs requires NDL to take off tax from this interest. NDL must give    
Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax it has taken off if he asks for one. If NDL intends to 
use the refunds  to reduce  an amount Mr H owes, it must do this after tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2021.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4431249