K820x#14complaint
Ms W says Ban of Scotland  PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms W bought a monthly premium PPI policy in November  1993 at the same time as taking 
out a credit card. The card ended in November 2005.
Ms W says the policy was mis-sold to her. She says she was misled  with regards to the sale 
of the insurance.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ws complaint  because:
I cant be sure where or how the policy was presented to Ms W when Bank  of Scotland 
sold her the PPI policy. But Ive looked  at what she did say about how the policy was 
sold and what I know of sales carried out by Bank  of Scotland at that time and I consider 
it is more likely  than not that she was given  an option to have the insurance.
I have come to this conclusion because although  I havent got very much documentation 
at all, from what I know of Bank  of Scotland sales processes at that time, it is more  likely 
that the policy was presented as optional.  I havent been able to see any evidence that 
anything different happened in this sale and Ms Ws recollections have  not persuaded 
me on this occasion that she wasnt given a choice  to have it either.
Due to the very limited  information  that has been provided I cannot say for sure whether 
Bank of Scotland gave Ms W advice  to have the PPI policy but it doesnt  look as if it was 
unsuitable for her anyway based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time.  She 
says she didnt  have  sick pay so I think the benefit provided by the policy would have 
been useful to her if she had any extended  period of sickness or unemployment.  Any 
claim could have  been paid for up to 12 months and would have provided her with 
additional income at a difficult  time. So I think the policy  recommended to Ms W would 
have been of use and so I cannot  conclude that it would  have  been  unsuitable for her 
based on what I have  seen. I also dont think there were  any significant  terms or 
exclusions that would have made  the policy unsuitable.
Bank of Scotland has been  unable  to provide evidence  that it provided  clear costs at the 
time of sale. But I dont think Ms W wouldve changed her mind about taking the policy  if 
this cost was presented  clearly  to her (for the same reasons why I think the policy is 
suitable). 
Ref: DRN40901622Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But 
its unlikely Ms W wouldve been  affected by any of these, due to his circumstances at the 
time of sale.
This has been a difficult complaint for me to consider due to the lack of information.  But 
based on what I do have  and understand about sales  at that time from Bank  of Scotland,  I 
cannot find a reason  to uphold Ms Ws complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms W to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4090162