K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a Premier Life 
packaged bank  account (PBA) in October 2008.  He says he thought  he had to pay for the 
current account service.
background
Barclays says that Mr P has held the current account in question since  1992, and that until 
the October  2008  upgrade it was fee free. At that point the Premier  Life account cost Mr P 
£17.50 per month and provided a range of benefits. The key ones were breakdown cover;  
worldwide travel insurance; mobile phone insurance; home  emergency  cover;  an interest 
free overdraft of up to £1,000; and preferential rates on overdrafts higher than that.
Mr P complained to Barclays  about  his PBA, but it didnt accept it had done anything  wrong,  
so he brought  his case to this service. Having  looked at the evidence, the adjudicator  didnt 
think the account had been  mis-sold  and so didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.
He doesnt accept that and has asked an Ombudsman to review his case  and reach a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
considering the sale of packaged bank accounts on our website, which  everyone  can read. 
Ive kept that approach in mind when considering Mr Ps case. Mr P is also complaining  
about the way Barclays  maintained the account,  as he feels  Barclays should  have regularly  
reminded him in writing of his option to switch  to a free account during the life of the PBA.  
Having considered the evidence on both aspects of his complaint, I am not upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
Did Mr P choose to upgrade to the Premier Life PBA knowing  he didnt have to?
Mr P accepts that he cannot remember anything about this sale, it having  happened nearly 
11 years  ago. There is also no documentation  available from the upgrade  process, which,  
again, isnt surprising. Mr P believes that lack of documentation, 
should mean Barclays have not followed correct procedures in advising and 
should not mean that I am penalised.
However, that isnt the case.  I should  emphasise that I do not have the power to influence  or 
set business processes  and procedures. That is the role of the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA).  But I am aware that businesses arent required to keep 
documentation indefinitely,  and the absence of that evidence doesnt  automatically mean it 
would be reasonable for me to conclude that something  went  wrong in October 2008.
It is my role to review  what  evidence is available  and then to decide,  on the balance of 
probabilities, what  is likely  to have happened. Mr P is unable to give any testimony  as to 
what happened at the sale, so in essence  there is no specific  complaint point about what  he 
was told back then about his choices. But Ive thought about  all the circumstances 
surrounding the sale to reach my conclusion.
Ref: DRN43663822Firstly, I note that Mr P had held a fee free account  with Barclays  for around 16 years when 
he upgraded. So, in the absence of any testimony from him on this point, I conclude that he 
was well aware that free banking was an option for him. I can see that he had a substantial 
agreed overdraft limit before he upgraded, so I also conclude that he knew he could access  
credit with Barclays without paying  for a PBA.
Secondly, the operation  of Mr Ps account presents  evidence to suggest why the upgrade 
might well have been attractive to him. As Ive set out above, this PBA initially  cost £17.50  
per month. And I can see that, in the few months  before he upgraded, the interest that Mr P 
was paying on his overdraft was consistently more than the £17.50 account fee  sometimes 
as much as double that. Once he upgraded to the Premier Life PBA, his interest charges 
reduced considerably. As an example, in September 2008,  I can see that Mr P was charged 
£29.29 interest  on his overdraft. In February 2009,  he was charged  a total of £35.31 in his 
account fee and overdraft  interest (the overdraft remaining at a constant, and significant, 
level).
The upshot  is that, once he upgraded, Mr P paid a fairly small additional amount in order  to 
gain all the insurance benefits  set out in the background section of this decision, whilst  also 
maintaining his overdraft.  Consequently, what evidence I do have leads me to conclude that 
Mr P chose to upgrade  as his financial position  at the time meant that he stood to gain a 
number of benefits from upgrading, for a modest  increase in the charges he was paying.
Did Barclays give Mr P enough information to enable him to make  an informed choice?
I havent seen  enough evidence to allow me to reach  a finding that Barclays  did give Mr P 
full information  about this PBA. But that doesnt  mean I should automatically  uphold his 
complaint. I would additionally need to think that a lack of information has caused him to 
miss out  that is, that he wouldnt have agreed to the PBA if hed known  more  about it.
That isnt the case here.  Mr P confirmed that he has registered for and used some of the 
benefits, and that he was aware of the cost. I havent seen anything which leads me to 
conclude that if hed had more or better information  about the PBA he would have declined  
to take it. So he hasnt lost out.
Was Barclays required to regularly remind customers that fee free banking was an option for 
them?
In short,  the answer  to this is no. I am not aware of any requirement of the FCA that banks 
need to do anything along these  lines. In addition, I can see no evidence in this case  to lead 
me to conclude that it was unfair  or unreasonable for Barclays  not to do this for Mr P 
specifically. Therefore there is no basis for me to make a finding that Barclays has done 
anything wrong  in this respect.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Barclays doesnt need  to do 
anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Ref: DRN43663823Siobhan McBride
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4366382