K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the 
insurer, should  accept responsibility for the complaint. To keep things  simple, Ill refer 
to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Mrs H says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  added  to a store  card account in 1996.  FICL says 
that the policy was sold to Mrs H on the phone.  Mrs H cant  recall being  given  any 
information about PPI on the phone or at the time she took out the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Hs account. Mrs H disagreed.  She said, in summary, 
PPI was added without her knowledge.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence  is either 
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  based on whats available.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Im not going  to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs H aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before 
adding PPI to her account.  Based  on the limited information now available,  I cant  know  
what was said at the time the policy was sold. 
FICL says PPI was added during  a phone call after the card was taken out. I accept thats 
more likely as FICLs  records from the time show the PPI was sold during a telemarketing 
call. FICL no longer  has a copy of the call recording. Businesses often only keep records 
for six years and this policy was sold much longer ago than that. 
Ive thought about what we weve learnt  about  FICLs sales processes from dealing  with 
other cases from around the time of sale. Based  on what weve learnt about FICLs usual 
telephone sales  process, I think it likely that PPI wouldve been discussed  and the 
customer wouldve been told that it was an optional and separate product and asked if 
they wanted it before it was added. I think it wouldve been clear that PPI was separate  
from the card as Mrs H didnt take out PPI from the beginning.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think that FICL  wasnt  following its usual sales 
process in Mrs Hs case. So, I think it likely that she wouldve been asked if she wanted 
PPI before  it was added. I think PPI was probably added because  Mrs H said she wanted  
it on the phone. So, I cant fairly uphold her complaint on this ground.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs H got clear  information  so she could make and informed 
choice and decide if it was right for her and she wanted to buy it.
Ref: DRN46654022Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been, so I have to go on and consider whether Mrs H wouldve likely made  a different 
decision if she had been given clearer information.  I cant see that she wouldve. Ill say 
why.
Mrs H appeared eligible  to take out the policy  and I cant see that it was unaffordable. Mrs H 
couldve cancelled the monthly paid policy at any time.
Mrs H said she couldnt remember how much sick pay she wouldve got through  work. 
She said she had £5,000  in savings. The PPI wouldve  paid out on top of any benefits she 
received through work, allowing Mrs H to use her work benefits and savings to meet her 
other living expenses  at what might be a difficult time for her financially if she wasnt  
working or was made redundant. The policy wouldve covered her for redundancy also. 
So, I cant see that her other  resources  made  the policy clearly  inappropriate  for her.
Mrs H said she took six to seven  weeks off work in 1993 for a particular condition. But, from 
what shes said, she didnt appear to be suffering from this condition  around 1996, when the 
PPI was taken out. So, I dont  think this wouldve affected her decision to take out the policy  
even if this condition  may have been excluded from cover. I say that because it didnt 
appear to be ongoing,  so I dont think that Mrs H wouldve thought shed have  to make a 
claim because  of it. So, even if Mrs H had been given clearer information,  I dont  think she 
wouldve made a different  decision and not bought the policy. 
I cant see that Mrs H has lost out because of anything that FICL did wrong,  so I do not to 
uphold her complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4665402