K821x#15Complaint
Mr B has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont  refund
transactions, which he said he didnt make.
Background
I recently issued my provisional  conclusions setting out the events leading  up to this 
complaint, and how I thought it should  be resolved. I decided to uphold this complaint.  Ive 
attached a copy of my provisional decision, which forms  part of this final decision.  
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
Ive not received further comments from Mr B.
Halifax has accepted  my provisional  decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not received any further  comments and, as Halifax has accepted my decision, I see 
no reason to change  it. 
Based on everything  Ive seen, I think its more likely than not Mr B didnt  authorise
the transactions. Therefore,  I think its fair and reasonable for Halifax to refund the
disputed transactions.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.
I am asking  Halifax to:
refund  the disputed  transactions  totalling £1,435.30
pay 8% interest on this amount from the time the transactions  left the account until 
they are refunded
refund  any interest and charges  incurred as a result of exceeding  the credit limit
restore the account to the position it was in on 24 January 2018
pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr B for the loss of his 
money and the time taken to recover it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN48834862
Ref: DRN48834863Complaint
Mr B has complained  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) wont refund 
transactions, which he said he didnt make.
Background
Mr B travelled  abroad for work on 27 November  2017.  He worked at the national university  until
15 February 2018. On 21 February 2018, he travelled with his partner to another part of the country 
for a holiday. He returned  to the UK on 26 February. While he was working abroad, he lived with his 
mother, except for three days from 18 to 21 February when he stayed with friends.
When Mr B returned to the UK, he saw on his credit  card statement that hed exceeded  his credit 
limit. The statement showed at least  45 transactions totalling  £1,435.30, which were made between 
25 January and 27 February 2018. The transactions were  made in the same  country he was working 
in at the time. Most of them were payments to a service station. On most dates,  there were several  
payments to the same merchant on the same day.
Mr B said he didnt recognise the transactions and was nowhere near the town where they had 
been made. Twenty-five transactions were attempted between 27 February and 31
March, after the card had been blocked and when he was back  in the UK.
Mr B said he didnt use this credit card while  abroad. He said hed never been able to use it, not even 
in the UK. Hed ordered a new PIN and this was sent on 23 November 2017, but hed left the UK 
before it arrived.  He said he tried using it once when  abroad, but it didnt work. He didnt try again. 
He used his AMEX card and his second credit  card with Halifax while he was away.
Mr B said he kept his card in his wallet and that he had it with him at all times. However, he couldnt 
find it when he returned  to the UK. He also said he didnt share his card or PIN with anyone else.  
Even he wasnt sure of the PIN. 
He raised a fraud complaint with Halifax and asked  for a refund.
Halifax refused to refund  him. It said his genuine card and PIN were  used to make the transactions. 
And, since there was no explanation for how anyone else got his card and PIN, he must  have 
authorised the transactions.
Mr B wasnt happy with this outcome and so he brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked  into his complaint and decided  not to uphold it. In summary, he felt unable 
to conclude  that the disputed transactions had been made fraudulently because of the chip and 
PIN evidence. He concluded that this evidence  made it more likely than not that Mr B had 
authorised the transactions.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion and so this case has come to me for a final 
ombudsmans decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote  a detailed view that sets out in full the facts, the transactions and the 
evidence. Mr B and Halifax  have read the investigators  view so I wont repeat everything in my 
decision. But I can assure both parties that I have read the file, including the evidence,  which both 
have provided. Having  done  so, my review  of this complaint has led me to a different conclusion. 
Ive decided to uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN48834864Generally, Halifax can hold Mr B liable  for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests that its 
more likely  than not that he made or authorised them  himself.
Halifax has provided  an audit report for the transactions. According to this report, his card and PIN 
were used to make  the transactions. Specifically, the report records that the chip in his card was 
read by the terminal. If I take this information at face value,  I have to conclude that the transactions  
were authenticated by his card and PIN.
However, I see that the investigator raised  concerns about the accuracy of technical  data from the 
country in which the card was used. Halifax suggested he contact Mastercard  for more information  
but the latter  was unable to help. So, there remains some doubt about the accuracy  of the data.
But even  if accurate, the regulations relevant to this case say that the chip and PIN are not, on their 
own, enough  to enable Halifax to hold Mr B liable.  So I also need to think about whether the 
evidence suggests  that its more likely than not that Mr B consented to the transactions being made. 
I dont think he did. Ill explain why I have reached this conclusion.
Nearly all of the disputed transactions were  made in or around the same city.
Mr B said he was working and staying in another city, which is at least 43 km away, according to 
Google. Some  of the disputed  transactions were made farther away. Mr B said the transactions 
were made 65 km and 915 km from where  he was living and working.  And he knows the country  the 
well.
Mr B has provided us with a letter from the university, confirming  the dates  of his attendance from 30 
November 2017 to 15 February 2018. The statements for his Amex  card show he made  frequent 
Uber journeys and other  purchases in the town where  he was working  and living,  when the disputed 
transactions were made elsewhere.
Between 21 and 26 February, he was holidaying at a coastal  resort with his partner,  
approximately 1,308 km away. Again, Mr B has sent us the confirmation of his hotel booking. 
And his Amex statement  shows a payment for a rental car in the resort area.
Based on this evidence, I am satisfied  Mr B was in a different city and at the coastal resort  when he 
said he was. This evidence  places  him at a different location  to where the disputed transactions  
were carried  out. And although he was initially staying and working in a city about one hours drive 
away, it isnt credible or feasible that he would  travel to and from the two cities,  several times a day. 
Besides, Mr B said he doesnt  drive.  And he clearly  couldnt have carried out any transactions  
between 21 and 26 February because he was about 1-2 days drive  away.
Also, the audit report for the transactions show  that someone tried to use the card several  times 
between 27 February and 31 March, when Mr B was back in the UK. Those transactions  were  
declined because Halifax had blocked his card. The card was blocked because  the account  
exceeded the credit limit.
I think its clear from this evidence  that someone else was using the credit card. And I dont think 
Mr B made  the disputed transactions himself.
So now I have  to consider  if he gave  his card and PIN to someone else to use. He is 
adamant that he didnt  do this.
Nearly all the transactions were made at service stations and some at grocery stores. Its not clear  if 
the person was purchasing petrol or other items or withdrawing cash. There is one payment to a car 
repair shop. They are relatively  ordinary transactions. And, I accept  these  are not the typical fraud 
Ref: DRN48834865transactions either, e.g. luxury or high value  goods.  The card was also kept and used for several 
weeks, which  suggests the person felt secure using  the card.
But I cant see any reason  why Mr B would  allow  someone to use his card in this way and with 
such frequency. Or why he would  leave his credit card with a third party after hed left the country. 
And I dont think he would consent to anyone  spending  over the credit  limit. This seems 
inconsistent with what  we know about him.
I understand  why Halifax  and our investigator have reached the conclusion that there was no obvious 
point of compromise.  However, Mr B did say he tried to use the card once whilst abroad but it didnt 
work. Halifax said theres no data showing an unsuccessful attempt outside UK. But what  I dont 
know, and it is largely speculation, is whether there was a fault
or interference with the machine.
I can see there have  been  discussions about whether Mr Bs card was cloned. I cant say it was but 
it remains a possibility without further information from Mastercard. Equally,  its not my 
responsibility to identify who did use the card. My task is to decide if Halifax has demonstrated, with 
sufficient evidence,  that Mr B authorised  the transactions. I dont think it has done so. I think its 
clear that a third party was using his card (or the details  from his card). And based on the nature  of 
the transactions, his own movements and his personal circumstances,  I dont consider there is any 
evidence he authorised its use.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I think its fair and reasonable for Halifax to refund the
disputed transactions because, overall, I think its more likely than not Mr B didnt authorise the 
transactions.
I would like to make it clear that this is a provisional  decision and both Mr B and Halifax may respond 
with additional evidence. Should that happen, I will have to review this decision and I may reach  a 
different outcome. I think  its important that Mr B understands this.
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I am upholding  this complaint. I am asking Halifax to:
refund the disputed  transactions totalling £1,435.30
pay 8% interest on this amount from the time the transactions left the account  until they 
are refunded
refund any interest and charges incurred  as a result of exceeding  the credit limit
restore the account  to the position it was in on 24 January 2018
pay £100  for the distress  and inconvenience experienced by Mr B for the loss of his money  
and the time taken  to recover it.
Ref: DRN4883486