K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) wont meet  a claim she made under her 
home insurance for an item stolen  from a member of her family. She wants AXA to meet the 
claim.
background
Miss Ss sister (Ill call her Miss A) was in a study room  at university. Shed packed most of 
her belongings into her backpack  and turned away to return  an item to a shelf. When  she 
turned back, her bag and its contents had been  stolen. Included  amongst the items  taken  
was a laptop.
Miss S approached AXA,  which  said it would look into the claim.  A little while later it said it 
wouldnt meet the claim because the insurance  policy included  a term that said theft wasnt  
covered when an item wasnt in the care,  custody or control  of Miss A. And it said this was 
clear because Miss A hadnt been  able to prevent the theft.
Miss S complained, but AXA didnt change  its mind. So she brought  her complaint to us.
Our investigator agreed with AXAs interpretation  of what happened  and thought it had 
applied the terms  and conditions of the policy fairly.
Miss S raised a number of points  disagreeing with our investigators view,  so Ive been  
asked to decide this complaint.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come  to the same  conclusion as our investigator did. I realise this will 
be disappointing for Miss S and Miss A, and Id like to explain why Ive reached  this decision.
When an insurer receives a claim under an insurance policy, it first checks that an insurable  
event has taken place before it agrees to look at the claim. This was a claim for theft  
which is an insurable event in the policy. And it had affected Miss A  who,  as she lives at 
the same  address as Miss S, was covered under the policy.  It was a stolen bag and contents 
 which  would only be covered if the policy insured  personal possessions   generally 
speaking items worn or carried outside the home.  Miss S had personal possessions  cover.  
So I think AXA was right to accept the claim  for consideration. 
The next step is for AXA to apply any terms and conditions contained in the policy  that refer 
to theft of personal possessions. In this case,  it said there was an exclusion in the policy  that 
said, in summary, that it wouldnt pay for items stolen  unless they were  in the care, custody 
or control of Miss A. 
Our investigator thought it was clear  that  from what Miss S and Miss A had told AXA  that 
Miss A hadnt fulfilled  those conditions. She said they were  common  phrases used in 
insurance policies  and their meaning  was clear. Id like to go a bit further than that. The fact 
that phrases or words  are in common use by insurers doesnt automatically make  their 
Ref: DRN49042462meaning clear. If an insurer hasnt provided  a clear definition of a particular  word,  the fairest  
way to interpret  that word   or words  is to use an everyday  definition,  such as might be 
found in a dictionary. In this case there isnt a definition in the policy.  But that doesnt 
necessarily mean Miss S can argue AXA applied the exclusion unfairly. Ive thought about 
the interpretation of the words used, and Im satisfied they all relate to Miss A looking after 
her possessions, and not leaving  them  even  for a short  period of time  somewhere where 
they could be taken.
Miss S has asked whether the words mean  the bag had to be in Miss As sight  at all times. I 
dont think they go that far. But I do think they mean Miss A should either be holding the bag, 
keeping an eye on it, or be in such close proximity that it wouldnt matter if she wasnt 
looking at it  shed  still know if someone  was trying  to steal  it. I accept Miss S has 
suggested that a bag that was at someones  feet under a table could  be said to be 
complying with the term  but I can only take into account what happened in this particular 
set of circumstances.  
Instead, Miss A explained  and AXA recorded  that shed left the bag on a table and gone 
round a corner to return something.  I accept  that she wasnt far away,  but I dont think she 
was, at that point,  looking  after the bag (care and custody) nor that she had control of it (so 
able to hold onto it).
I think it was very bad luck that Miss A had her bag stolen when she only left it for a short  
period of time  but I cant say AXA has applied the exception unfairly.
Miss S said she doesnt agree with AXA saying  Miss A must have breached the terms and 
conditions because she was unable to prevent the theft. And its possible AXA could have 
worded that better. But Im not persuaded by Miss Ss counter argument  that some  thefts  
arent preventable (she uses pickpocketing  as an example) so this claim should be met. As I 
said above, I cant apply  what  happened in different circumstances  to this claim. 
Miss S says she might  have thought twice about  paying extra  for personal  possessions 
cover if shed realised the cover only applied in very limited circumstances. I havent looked 
at this in detail as Miss S hasnt  previously mentioned this, so AXA hasnt had a chance to 
comment. But I can say the cover  does offer other  protection  accidental  loss for example. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4904246