K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Santander UK Plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs C payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1991. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully the comments of Mr and Mrs C and their representatives.  However, 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why:
I have seen the mortgage application  form that Mr and Mrs C signed,  and this does set 
out the PPI as a choice. A box has been ticked to say that just Mr C should be covered. 
So, although  I cant be sure,  I think its likely there was some kind of discussion, and that 
Mr and Mrs C chose to take PPI  although  I can understand if Mr and Mrs C dont recall 
the details of what happened so many years ago. 
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Being unable  to 
pay a mortgage  can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at 
the same  time as Mr C (the person covered) received any employer sick pay, and 
potentially for longer.  It would  have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any 
redundancy pay. And it would have  put off the time when they would need to fall back on 
any savings. This all would have put Mr and Mrs C in a more  secure  position, if they 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Its hard to know how well Santander explained the cost of the policy.  But I dont anyway 
think full and clear information  about  the costs  would  have affected whether 
Mr and Mrs C took the PPI.
Its possible Santander didnt  clearly point out the main  things the policy didnt cover.  But 
its unlikely Mr and Mrs C would have been affected by any of these.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN40595362Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4059536