K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd refused to cover  the cost of repairing 
his car or support  him in a warranty claim.
background
In October  2017 Mr H bought a second hand  car with hire purchase  finance provided by 
FCA. The car was a year old and had done  6,472  miles. In October 2018 Mr H took the car 
back to the dealer to have a door mirror repaired. It seems the dealer replaced the window 
control when carrying  out the repair. Mr H says the door was removed, but the dealer says it 
wasnt. I gather it also updated some  software. Following the repair Mr H found that from 
time to time passenger  front door wouldnt open. The dealer  couldnt replicate the fault,  but 
replaced the door lock. Mr H says the door still locks intermittently.
Mr H complained to FCA. It said that there was no evidence of a fault at the point of sale and 
therefore it didnt  uphold his complaint, but offered to reduce the final settlement figure  by 
£250. Mr H brought  his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld.
He noted the videos  submitted by Mr H showing the passenger door locked when the 
remaining three were open  and appreciated his frustration with the problem.  He said a 
finance provider  has a responsibility  to provide  a satisfactory vehicle at point of sale.  
However, Mr H had confirmed there  wasnt a problem  with the door when he bought  the car. 
Nor was he aware  of any evidence that the fault was present at the point of sale.
He didnt think it was the responsibility of FCA to assist Mr H with getting the car repaired 
under warranty. Mr H didnt agree and said part of the cost of his hiring the car went to 
paying for the warranty and as FCA own the car it had a responsibility to ensure the car was 
repaired properly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr Hs frustration that his car has a fault and the dealer has been unable to 
repair it. However, this complaint is against FCA and not the dealer and not the 
manufacturer. My remit only covers  regulated financial  businesses and regulated financial 
activities. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
FCA is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
Ref: DRN48975342The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
The test relates to the quality of the goods at the time of supply.  A fault may occur some time 
after the goods have been bought,  but if it can be established that a fault was present or 
inherent at the time of sale then, in simple terms, the finance provider is liable. 
It seems  there was no problem with the door for the first year or so Mr H had the car. The 
fault developed after repairs were carried out in connection with the door mirror.  That would 
suggest that the fault may well be connected with that work. I have seen no evidence that 
would allow me to conclude that the car was faulty at the point of sale.  Therefore, I cannot 
hold FCA responsible for the fault or its repair. 
Mr H has suggested that FCA is responsible  for any faults while  the car is in its ownership.  
That is not how the law works. FCA is not responsible for any fault which  arises  subsequent 
to purchase which  cant  be established as being  inherent. 
Mr H has suggested that as he has entered into a hire purchase agreement FCA retains 
ownership and is in effect hiring the car to him. While I can understand why he takes this 
view I dont agree. He is not hiring the car; he is buying it with finance provided by FCA 
which retains ownership until the full debt is repaid.
Under the terms of the agreement he signed  by Mr H he is responsible for the care of the 
car. He is responsible  for keeping  it in good  condition and for paying for all repairs. He has a 
warranty, not FCA and so he is responsible for any claims made under that warranty.  I can 
understand his wish for support from FCA. In that regard I see it has gone back  to the dealer 
to ask it to look at the fault, but it says it cannot replicate it and so is unable  to effect a repair.
So while I have every sympathy with Mr H I cannot say FCA has done anything  wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision before 
18 July 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4897534