K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc has unfairly  reduced his overdraft limit.
background
Mr Z says hes a longstanding customer of HSBC  and had an agreed overdraft of £5,000 
which he has never gone over. He says HSBC  reduced his overdraft facility from £5,000 to 
£500 without any explanation and that decision was unfair. Mr Z says he then applied for a 
new overdraft limit of £5,000 but HSBC refused his application. He would like the previous 
limit of £5,000 given  back to him.
HSBC says its not made a mistake and reviews  overdraft facilities  annually. It says it 
reviewed Mr Zs overdraft  and decided to reduce it in line with the account terms and 
conditions. It also says Mr Zs new application was rejected.
Mr Z brought  his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt uphold  it. She thought HSBC had 
acted in line with the account terms and conditions and Mr Z had been given notice of the 
change to the overdraft limit. The investigator didnt think  it was the role of this service to 
interfere in the business decisions  of HSBC.
Mr Z remains unhappy with that view and says HSBC  hasnt explained  why it reduced his 
overdraft limit when his circumstances hadnt changed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr Z will be disappointed by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly he feels about whats happened.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions which Im satisfied Mr Z would have agreed 
to when the account was opened.  And Im satisfied that HSBC is entitled to make changes to 
an overdraft facility or withdraw  it. I can see that HSBC gave Mr Z notice of the change to the 
overdraft limit. And Im satisfied that its up to a bank or building  society  to make  such 
business decisions when  exercising its commercial judgement and not something I can fairly  
interfere in.
So I dont  think HSBC  has made a mistake  or acted unfairly by reviewing Mr Zs account or 
making changes  to it and in rejecting  Mr Zs application for a larger  overdraft limit. I 
appreciate Mr Z would like a full explanation for those decisions. But for the reasons Ive 
explained I cant fairly order HSBC to reveal  those reasons  and also think  such information is 
likely to be commercially  sensitive in any event.
Overall whilst I appreciate Mr Zs frustration about  HSBCs decision I dont think  it acted 
unfairly or made a mistake here. So I cant fairly order it to increase Mr Zs overdraft limit or 
provide any further  reasons for its decision to reduce it.
Ref: DRN46852882my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4685288