K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc handled a claim he made 
under his buildings insurance policy for damage to his bathroom following an escape of water.
background 
Mr B is the leaseholder of his property   a flat. He pays a premium  to the freeholder of his 
property for a group buildings insurance policy, which is provided by RSA.
In around April 2018 Mr B was made  aware  by the occupant of the property underneath  him 
that water  was leaking from his bathroom into their property. Mr B reported this escape  of 
water to RSA who told him that, before it could consider his claim,  he would need to provide 
it with two competitive  estimates, photographs and a leak repair  invoice.
Mr B instructed two companies to determine the cause of the escape of water  and provide 
quotes for the remedial work  necessary. The first company, which  Ill refer to here as Q, 
thought water had penetrated the sealant around the bath. But the second company, which 
Ill call G, noted a leak beneath  Mr Bs bath and said this had caused the water damage. 
RSA informed Mr B it would authorise him to instruct  Q to undertake  the remedial work it had 
quoted as being necessary due to the escape  of water. And it explained it would contribute 
£1000 towards those costs on receipt  of the original invoice on completion of the works.
Mr B said he instructed Q to restore  his bathroom  to its pre-loss state and he said he paid it 
directly for the cost of the repairs. He told RSA that, during the repairs  process,  Q had 
needed to reinforce four wooden joists because it discovered that the leak had rotted the 
four wooden joists.  This work had not been  included within the original estimate Mr B had 
provided RSA and he incurred an additional cost of £650. He said RSA verbally agreed to 
meet that additional cost. 
Mr B stated  that the amount  he paid Q totalled £1770, which also included unexpected re-
tiling work that had to be completed during the repairs process.  He said he told RSA about 
this additional  cost and asked it to reimburse  him. But it failed to respond  to his request or 
reimburse him any of the money he had spent repairing his bathroom.  
As Mr B was unhappy  with the service he was receiving from RSA he referred his complaint 
to our service. To resolve his complaint he said he wanted RSA to reimburse him the £1770 
he had paid Q to repair his bathroom. He also wanted our service  to award £200 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  he had experienced.
Our investigator requested RSAs business  file from it so they could investigate and assess  
Mr Bs complaint. But RSA told our service it had already settled Mr Bs claim and paid his 
builders directly. So, it felt there  was nothing outstanding in relation to his claim for loss. 
Despite requests for additional information from our investigator, RSA didnt provide them 
with sufficient information to evidence the level of service it had provided Mr B while dealing 
with his claim or show it had already paid Qs invoices. So, our investigator upheld  Mr Bs 
complaint and recommended that RSA pay him £1770 for the remedial work completed on 
his bathroom,  less any applicable policy excess.  They also thought  RSA should pay Mr B 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he had been caused.  
Ref: DRN44655192RSA agreed with our investigators recommendations.  However,  Mr B responded by 
explaining that he wanted RSA to remove his floorboards to investigate whether the damp 
issue had been  resolved  because the new floorboards under his bath were  showing staining. 
Our investigator didnt  think it was fair to ask RSA to undertake  any further investigations  of 
Mr Bs property.  But Mr B disagreed and asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to assess whether I think RSA made a mistake,  or treated Mr B unfairly,  such that 
it needs to now put things  right. I can see Mr B has raised several individual points in 
response to our investigators view about  his complaint. I have considered  all of these, 
although my decision  focuses on what I consider to be the crux of the issue.
Mr Bs policy  provides cover for damage caused  by a range of perils that might happen. 
These are specific one-off events and include an escape of water,  for example. In order for a 
claim to be successful a policy holder would have to show  that the damage theyre claiming 
for was caused by one of the perils listed in the policy.
In this case Mr B provided RSA with two reports, which offered a difference of opinion on the 
cause of damage. Ive seen evidence that RSA authorised Mr B to instruct  Q to undertake 
remedial work to his bathroom. In doing  so Im satisfied RSA approved Mr Bs claim and 
accepted that the escape of water was due to a leak beneath  the bath  the cause of 
damage offered  by Q in its report.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen Im satisfied  Mr Bs bathroom  has been  repaired by Q and 
that the work  it quoted  in its estimates  and invoices has been undertaken. Mr B said he paid 
Q directly for repairing his bathroom, which RSA failed to reimburse. But RSA initially  told 
our service  that it had paid the builders directly.  
I can see RSA hasnt  provided our service  with any evidence to substantiate any payment 
being made to Q by it. And Ive no reason  to disbelieve what  Mr B told our service  about 
incurring repair expenses  himself. As RSA agreed to cover  Mr Bs escape  of water claim 
under his policy Im satisfied the costs of restoring his bathroom  to its pre-loss  state  should  
be met by it.
In its email of 18 October 2018 RSA confirmed it would pay a contribution  of £1000 towards 
the cost of repairing Mr Bs bathroom.  However,  during  a visit to Mr Bs property on 29 
October 2018 he said the loss adjuster agreed  to cover the cost of additional  work  to the 
value of £650. Ive no reason to doubt what Mr B says about this. And I note RSA hasnt 
disputed this discussion took place. 
In relation to the additional  £120  cost for re-tiling work RSA said it wasnt  able to agree that 
payment without sight of the original invoice and an explanation as to why this additional 
cost was incurred.  However, Ive seen an email Mr B sent RSA on 1 November 2018, which 
stated that when the bath was removed by Q the tiles were damaged. So, re-tiling  work was 
necessary in order to restore the bathroom to its pre-loss  state.  Im satisfied that, in sending  
that email to RSA, Mr B provided sufficient  information for it to consider meeting this 
additional cost.  And Im satisfied RSA should pay the additional sum requested.
Ref: DRN44655193Its clear to me there were delays in RSA concluding  Mr Bs claim. It was necessary for him 
to refer his complaint to our service  before  the issue of reimbursing him could be resolved. I 
think RSA could have  dealt with Mr Bs claim more proactively. To recognise  the delays and 
poor service he experienced Im persuaded a modest award of compensation is warranted.
Mr B told our service he wanted our investigator  to recommend RSA pay a trouble and upset 
award of £200.  I can see that its agreed  to pay that sum. And Im satisfied  this is a 
reasonable amount, which fairly  recognises the distress and inconvenience this all caused. 
Its is in line with our approach in similar scenarios. So, I wont be increasing that amount.
Finally, Mr B has asked RSA to remove his floorboards  to investigate whether the damp 
issue has been resolved. He says his concern is prompted by a comment made by the loss 
adjuster in November  2018 that the new floorboards under his bath were  showing staining, 
either from a continuing leak or due to damp from untreated joists. 
I appreciate why this comment may have caused Mr B to question  whether the damp  issue 
had been fully resolved. However,  the wooden joists under Mr Bs bath were reinforced and 
treated by Q. And, like our investigator, Im persuaded that any unresolved damp  issues 
would have manifested themselves to both Mr B and his downstairs neighbour by now. In 
the overall circumstances  of this complaint I havent  seen enough evidence  to indicate that 
damp is an ongoing problem here. So, I cant fairly  ask RSA to undertake a further 
investigation of Mr Bs property. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve this complaint Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance  Plc should: 
Pay Mr B £1,770 for the remedial  work  completed  on his bathroom, minus any 
applicable policy excess  unless this has already  been paid.
Pay Mr B £200 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience this matter caused  
unless this has already  been  paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4465519