K820x#14Complaint
Mr K complains that Financial Administration  Services Limited (trading as Fidelity) delayed  
his switch from an existing self-invested  personal  pension (SIPP) to another  SIPP.
Background
Mr and Mrs K had separate  SIPPs and Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) that were  
administered by Fidelity.  In September 2018 they sought advice from an independent  
financial adviser, S, as they wanted  to move away from self-managing  their pensions and 
use a discretionary fund manager (DFM)  instead.
In order for S to make  the recommendation,  it asked for information about Mr and Mrs Ks 
existing arrangements. However, S had difficulty obtaining all of the information it needed 
because Fidelity didnt  send the appropriate authority form for Mrs K to the SIPP provider. 
Although it received all of the necessary information  relating  to Mr Ks SIPP  promptly, it 
didnt receive Mrs Ks information  until 22 November 2018.
S instructed Fidelity to sell the assets  held within Mr and Mrs Ks accounts  to cash on 
21 December 2018. Mr and Mrs K instructed S to start the transfer process to the new SIPP  
provider in January  2019.
Mr K made a complaint to Fidelity  about the delays, which he said had caused the value of 
their accounts to significantly drop. He said S had made the recommendation to switch  to an 
alternative provider  on 8 October  2018 but they couldnt proceed until S had all the 
information it had requested.
Fidelity didnt uphold  Mr Ks complaint, saying that it had provided all of the information S 
had requested in respect of his accounts  by 2 October 2018. It said it couldnt be held 
responsible for Mr Ks decision not to transfer  his funds or sell the investments to cash 
sooner. Fidelity provided a final response to Mrs K, upholding the complaint and offering 
£500 compensation for the delays. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt  accept this and referred their complaint  to our service. Mr K said that his 
complaint and Mrs Ks complaint had to be considered as one. He said he couldnt transfer 
his funds to the new SIPP  provider on his own as he and Mrs K were  opening  a joint SIPP 
which had a minimum investment of £250,000.  So, he said both accounts needed to be 
transferred at the same time. Mr K maintained that Fidelity was directly responsible  for their 
losses.
Mr and Mrs Ks complaints were considered  by our service separately  as the accounts with 
Fidelity were  separate.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ks complaint. He said the new SIPP  provider had 
confirmed that Mr K couldve transferred his funds to the joint SIPP first, on the 
understanding that Mrs Ks funds would follow. So, the investigator was satisfied Mr K 
couldve transferred  his SIPP funds any time from 8 October 2018, when he said the 
recommendation had been made.  The investigator  also noted that Mr Ks ISA funds werent 
transferred to the new provider and were instead taken as cash, so he couldve done this at 
any time. For this reason,  he didnt think Fidelity was responsible  for any drop in value.
Ref: DRN47295462Mr K didnt agree. He said with hindsight it was easy to say that he shouldve  gone ahead 
with his transfer, but he honestly believed the missing  information  for Mrs Ks account would 
arrive the next day. He said he wasnt made aware  he couldve proceeded with his transfer  
alone (given the minimum investment  required).
The investigator didnt  change his opinion. He noted  that Mr K might not have known he 
could transfer  his pension without Mrs Ks funds, but this was an option available  to his 
adviser, S. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to make  a 
final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
Mr K doesnt  dispute that S had received all of the information relevant to his SIPP  and ISA 
accounts by the time he met with S on 8 October  2018. However,  he says that he couldnt  
proceed with the intended  transfer to the new SIPP provider because Mrs Ks funds needed 
to be transferred at the same time to meet the minimum investment requirement of 
£250,000.
I appreciate that this is what Mr K understood at the time. But Mr K was receiving advice 
from S throughout,  and it was ultimately S that was in control  of the transfer.  By the time 
Mr K met with S again on 8 October  2018,  his pension had already experienced a loss in 
value. Ive seen  evidence showing his SIPP account was valued at £220,521.24  on 
19 September 2018, but it had fallen  to £216,667.83  by 8 October 2018 due to market 
volatility. And I think S ought to have known Mr Ks accounts would be subject to fluctuations 
in value during  this time. So, even though S was waiting for information relating to Mrs Ks 
accounts, it had everything it needed to proceed  with Mr Ks transfer. And it ought  to have 
known that the value  of Mr Ks accounts  could decrease if it delayed proceeding with the 
transfer.
S had options at this point. It couldve instructed Fidelity to sell the investments to cash in the 
meantime. Or it couldve enquired with the new provider to see whether it would accept 
Mr Ks funds  up front. Had it done  so, it wouldve found that the new SIPP provider was 
happy to accept Mr Ks funds up front, on the understanding that Mrs Ks funds  would shortly  
follow. I think that wouldve been a reasonable enquiry to make in the circumstances given it 
was unclear how much longer it would be before it obtained all of the information it had 
requested. And this wouldve  protected the value of Mr Ks accounts. However, it was also 
possible that the investments couldve recovered, and couldve potentially increased in 
value. This is an inherent risk of the timing of any transfer from one provider  to another.
Ref: DRN47295463Ultimately I dont think Fidelity has done anything wrong here. It provided S with the 
information it requested  in respect of Mr Ks accounts within a reasonable timescale. So, S 
had everything it needed  to proceed  with Mr Ks recommendation by 2 October 2018. 
I appreciate why Mr Ks transfer didnt go ahead until later,  but I dont think it is fair to hold 
Fidelity responsible for the decrease in the value of Mr Ks investments during this time.
With regard to Mr Ks ISA, I note this didnt form part of Ss recommendation and it appears  
the funds were taken  as cash  rather than invested  with the new SIPP provider.  The 
information relating  to the ISA was provided  by Fidelity promptly.  So, Mr K couldve sold the 
ISA investments to cash at any time.  For this reason, I dont think  Fidelity  caused  any loss 
here. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2021.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4729546