K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained about three  loans he took out through  a company called Uncle  Buck 
Finance LLP. (Uncle Buck). Mr A says it lent to him irresponsibly because  proper checks  
about his overall  financial  situation  werent  carried out. 
background
The complaint relates  to three loans as set out below. 
Loan Sequence Amount Term Repayment 
Instalments
1.05/11/2013 £250 15 days 1
2.24/12/2013 £500 22 days 1
3.17/01/2014 £650 22 days (1 - but outstanding)
One of our adjudicators has already said they thought the complaint in relation to loans 2 
and 3 should be upheld. Uncle Buck didnt agree with the adjudicator  and asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Mr As 
complaint.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr A could repay the loan he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks  ought  to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total 
repayment amount  and the consumers income  and expenditure.  
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Uncle Buck  should  have  fairly and reasonably done more  to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher  repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time 
during which a customer  has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN43850832There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So Uncle  Buck was required to establish 
whether Mr A could  sustainably repay  his loans,  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr A 
could sustainably make  the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow  that this is the 
case. This is because  the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Uncle Buck  told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing  to lend to Mr A, including  
assessing his income,  expenditure  and net disposable income.  It says it also carried  out 
credit checks to assess his creditworthiness. It says that all this information showed  that he 
would be able to make the loan repayments he was committing  to.  
Ive looked carefully  at all this and also applied what Ive said above,  about the length of the 
lending relationship, to the circumstances of loan 1. And I dont think its clear enough at this 
particular point that what Uncle Buck would have would have seen, from its checks,  
suggested the loan was either unaffordable for him or that the information on the checks it 
carried out substantially  undermined the outgoings Mr A had himself declared. 
I accept that Mr A may have already been indebted  to other short-term loan providers at this 
point. However, theres no clear  record of the type or depth of credit  checks that were carried  
out at that time. So Im afraid I dont agree that Uncle Buck knew its lending  was 
unsustainable for Mr A. I therefore dont uphold this part of Mr As complaint.
However, I think from the point of loan 2 onwards, the situation  was different. He applied  for 
this the month directly  after repaying loan 1 and the amount he borrowed doubled. So I think 
a more proportionate set of checks on his financial situation at this point was required.  
Our experience of short-term lending tells us that consumers who have difficulty  managing 
their money are less likely to be able to sustainably repay a loan.  A proportionate check at 
this point would have clearly shown that Mr A had several other short-term loans outstanding  
which I think would have  demonstrated that he was having financial  trouble and relying 
heavily on short-term lending. With this information, I dont think  Uncle Buck  ought  to have 
lent him the money for the loan 2. I dont  think it was responsible to do so.
Specifically for Loan 3, I think the same  issues  applied. Uncle Buck  should  have  already 
been concerned  about  whether or not Mr A might be able to make the repayments, for the 
same reasons Ive set out above. However, I also note that for loan 3 he increased his 
borrowing again and directly asked for this having  only just paid off the previous one. This 
meant that his repayments reached  a very significant portion of his income without 
considering the other expenses he might have  had. This aspect added  considerably,  in my 
view, to loan 3 being unsustainable for him.
Overall I think  a more comprehensive  and proportionate  assessment  of Mr As financial 
situation was necessary  for loans 2 and 3 for the reasons  Ive explained. I think  this would 
Ref: DRN43850833have shown Uncle Buck that it shouldnt have lent to him on either of these  occasions.  I dont 
think it was responsible to do so.
Finally, Ive thought  about what Uncle Buck said in response to our adjudicators view. It 
said, that on reflection,  it had over-estimated Mr As outgoings  from loan 2 onwards (and 
therefore implied he could probably  have afforded this loan). But I think  this lack of attention 
to detail only adds  weight to the obvious need that existed for Uncle Buck  to carry out 
appropriate checks and to correctly asses Mr As ability to repay. The evidence  Ive referred 
to above shows  Uncle Buck  shouldnt have lent him the money for either of loans 2 or 3 and 
thats why Im partially upholding  Mr As complaint.
putting things right
In order to put things  right for Mr A, Uncle Buck should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr A paid on loan 2
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 3 and treat any payments 
Mr A made towards this loan as payments towards  the capital
if reworking Mr As loan 3 account as Ive directed results in Mr A effectively  having  
made payments  above the original  capital borrowed, then Uncle  Buck should refund 
these overpayments  with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from 
the date the overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr As loan 3 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Uncle Buck can use the total refund for loan 2 to offset this. And if there is still an 
outstanding capital balance then I would  remind  Uncle  Buck that it should take a 
sympathetic view when seeking  to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr A for 
the remaining  capital
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr As credit file in relation to loans  2 
and 3
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck  to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr A a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I partially uphold  Mr As complaint and direct  Uncle  Buck  Finance LLP to put things right as 
set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4385083