K821x#15complaint
Mr Ks unhappy that Acromas Insurance Company  Limited didnt offer him an automatic
transmission courtesy  car when he claimed on his Stay Mobile  breakdown  cover  policy.
background
Acromas said in its final response that the policy terms and conditions  said the availability of 
a car depended on one being available from the third party hire company. In this case  the 
hire company says it had two automatic vehicles available, a Mokka and a Dacia,  but Mr K 
declined both as he didnt like them.  It says it did its best to organise and book a vehicle for 
him at the time.
Mr K disputes he was offered the Mokka or Dacia. He says he was offered and accepted  a 
Zafira but was then told it had already gone and wasnt available. He wants  compensation 
including for £500 of taxi fares he incurred.
our investigators view
Our investigator felt this complaint should  be upheld.  In summary  he said Acromas has 
provided notes from its records of calls with Mr K. They  say he was offered a choice of 
automatic cars but didnt like them. But it hasnt  been able to provide recordings of any calls 
or any evidence of the cars being  offered or available. As Mr K is disabled its likely he 
wouldve needed a car or he wouldnt have been  able to travel. On balance  its more likely 
than not that he wouldve accepted an automatic vehicle  if itd been offered. Not having a car 
would have meant Mr K spent money  paying  for taxis. Mr K doesnt have receipts for the taxi 
fares. Even so Acromas should pay him £500 compensation for the substantial  trouble hes 
been caused.
Mr K accepted the investigators view.
Acromas didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman review. In summary it said the car hire 
company cannot  provide any further  information. Although the original calls arent available 
its system notes  evidence  what happened and are an official record of events. They  hold 
more credibility than just a verbal  statement. The car hire company provided consistent 
information which is recorded in the system  notes. Its concerned that the investigators 
approach is effectively suggesting  that two separate agents two months apart  fabricated  
evidence or falsified system notes. Its actually likely the hire company provided information 
that has been recorded  correctly. The investigator  has rejected Acromas evidence  and 
accepted Mr Ks without  verification.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint on 29 July 2019. In summary,  subject  to any 
further evidence  and submissions from the parties,  I was minded to not uphold the 
complaint. Taking  everything into account I felt on balance that Acromas system notes do 
suggest it was more likely that Mr K was offered the two automatic vehicles by the hire 
company and declined them, than not. And the policy terms and conditions  didnt guarantee 
him a like for like replacement car. Overall  I wasnt persuaded  on balance  and on the 
available evidence that I could fairly or reasonably require Acromas  to pay Mr K any 
compensation.
Ref: DRN43752152Mr K doesnt  agree.  He says he wasnt offered an automatic car and he hasnt anything 
more to add.
Acromas agreed with my provisional decision and says it hasnt anything  further  to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have  happened than not.
The Stay Mobile policy terms and conditions  say, amongst other things, that in relevant 
circumstances a replacement car will be provided  by Acromas chosen supplier and that 
arrangement will be subject to the hire companys terms and conditions. The replacement
car will be a mid-range salon or hatchback up to 1600cc available for 72 hours.  And it says it 
doesnt guarantee a like for like replacement  car.
In this case theres very limited evidence  available to show what happened.  Unfortunately  no 
call recordings  are available. Although that may not be surprising as Mr K wouldve dealt 
directly with the third party hire company. The hire company also apparently has no other 
information available.
The only evidence that is available  is limited to what Mr K and Acromas  say and what
Acromas has recorded in its system notes and records.
Acromas says the hire company says it offered  Mr K two automatic vehicles, a Mokka  and a 
Dacia, but he declined  them as he didnt like them. It has recorded this information in its 
system notes  on two separate occasions.  Theres also mention  of Mr K being known to the 
hire company branch and trying  to book cars and not turning up.
There isnt any direct evidence or documentation  to support these notes and although  the 
information they provide may be regarded  as, at best, hearsay evidence I do think it has 
nevertheless to be considered, taken account of and given some weight when I make  my 
decision.
Mr K denies these  two vehicles were offered to him. And Acromas points out that Mr K
wouldnt now want to acknowledge he was offered the other two cars as it weakens  his case. 
Mr K accepts he was offered a Zafira but it turned out to be unavailable.
Taking everything into account  and on the available evidence I think Acromas system notes 
do suggest it was more likely that Mr K was offered the two automatic vehicles by the hire 
company and declined them, than not.
And Ive also seen nothing to support the investigators conclusion  that its more than likely 
Mr K would accept any or the first automatic car offered to him. In fact the system  notes 
suggest he didnt  like some makes and models of car even though they were automatic.
The policy terms and conditions also didnt guarantee him a like for like replacement car. 
And as Acromas has said it wasnt open to Mr K to select exactly  which  make  or model of 
car he would  like or prefer.
Ref: DRN43752153Furthermore Mr K hasnt  any receipts for the significant taxi fares  he says he incurred and 
paid for in cash.
Overall although  I recognise  Mr Ks frustration and strength  of feeling Im not persuaded on 
balance and on the available evidence that I can fairly or reasonably require Acromas to pay 
him £500, or any compensation, for his trouble and upset or any un-receipted taxi fares as 
hed like.
my final decision
I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4375215