K820x#14complaint
Mrs G feels Clark Thomson Insurance Brokers Ltd mis-sold her buildings and contents  
insurance policy.
background
Mrs G bought her insurance through Clark Thomson Insurance  Brokers Ltd. She made a 
claim for storm  damage.  Her insurer declined  the claim  because  it felt the damage wasnt 
caused by storm  (as there hadnt been a storm), but due to wear  and tear  the report Ive 
seen says the damage was caused by cement around the dormer window breaking down, 
which in turn allowed water to get into the property over a period of time.
Mrs G complained to Clark Thomson as she felt the policy had been mis-sold. She said she 
acted on the information it gave her each year that it had found  the policy which  best suited 
her needs,  but she is now in the position  of having  to pay the repair costs herself. She said 
that because shed made an accidental damage claim in the past she had no reason to think  
that accidental  cover wouldnt be included. She thought shed paid for a policy which  would 
provide cover for any form accidental damage.
Clark Thomson didnt  think  it had done  anything wrong. It said the policy  Mrs G had was 
competitive as other insurers  wouldnt provide  storm or flood cover because  of the where  the 
house was, previous claims, and the use of the premises.  It felt the policy  documentation  it 
provided showed that the cover was standard rather than including accidental damage.  It 
also said that even  if Mrs G had accidental damage cover her claim still wouldnt have been  
paid.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. Although  she appreciated that 
Mrs G thought she had accidental damage  cover, she didnt think  this made a difference  
overall because  even if Mrs G had this cover  her claim still would  have been  declined by the 
insurer. Mrs G disagreed  with our investigator. She said she paid Clark  Thomson so that it 
would search for the right policy for her and deal with any issues that arise. She felt that if 
there was confusion in the information she was given (as has been  admitted by the insurer) 
she should be reimbursed  for the costs shes incurred because accidental  damage cover 
wasnt included in the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy Mrs G held is often referred to as a standard  policy. That essentially means  
cover is provided for damage caused to the building or contents due to a range of insured 
events that are listed in the policy  such as fire, flood, storm, theft. No cover  is provided for 
damage caused by something not listed. 
Clark Thomson isnt responsible for any aspect of the claim  or the decision made by the 
insurer to decline the claim. Clark Thomson  doesnt have any contractual liability to pay 
Mrs Gs claim. The claim was handled  by Mrs Gs insurer and it was the insurer who made 
the decision to decline the claim. If Mrs G wishes to pursue a complaint about her claim  eg 
regarding incorrect information given by the assessor, the assertion there  was no storm, the 
Ref: DRN41201312decision to decline the claim  she will need to complain to her insurer. My consideration of 
this matter is only in respect  of the alleged mis-sale.
For mis-sale complaints there are two issues I generally consider:
1.was the policy mis-sold?
2.if so, did the mis-sale  disadvantage the consumer?
If the answer  to both questions is yes I will go on to look at what  the business needs to do 
now in order to put things right.
In this instance I dont  think  its necessary for me to consider the first question.  Thats 
because even if I found in Mrs Gs favour on this point and concluded that Clark Thomson 
mis-sold the policy, I think her complaint  would  fall down  on the second point. Ill explain 
why.
If Mrs G had known that her policy didnt include cover for accidental  damage she would  
have had three options. The first one would have been to continue  with the policy  as it was. 
And if she did that she would be in exactly the same position  as she found  herself  in ie 
having to pay for the repairs after her insurer declined the claim.
The second  option would have been to pay the extra  premium  to include accidental damage  
cover. But if she did that she would still have  had to pay for the repairs because  her insurer 
would still have declined  the claim. Thats because the accidental damage section of the 
policy specifically excluded damage caused  by water entering the home unless that water  
was due to storm or flood  (and the insurer said there  was no storm).
The third option  would  have been to buy another policy through someone  else. Obviously its 
impossible for me to know the precise  terms and conditions of that potential policy  and, 
therefore, whether  it would have contained a similar  exclusion to the one Ive referred to in 
the above paragraph. I do know though that no policy covers  absolutely everything that 
might happen. And all policies Im aware  of contain an exclusion relating to damage caused  
by wear and tear and/or damage that happens gradually. And given the assessor  has said 
the damage has been caused gradually  the cement breaking down and water getting  in 
over time  I think its most likely that any alternate insurer would still have declined the 
claim. So again, Mrs G would still be in the position  of having to pay for the repairs.
So, irrespective of whether or not Clark Thomson  treated Mrs G poorly in respect of the 
information given  about the policy not including accidental damage  cover, Im not persuaded 
that Mrs G would have  been disadvantaged by that. In my opinion,  she would always have 
found herself in the position  of not being  able to make a successful claim for the damage  
that occurred.
In closing, I recognise that Mrs G has mentioned other points in support of her complaint, 
such as the property being regularly  maintained  and her not being  aware  of any problem 
with the roof at the time of the incident.  Whilst Ive noted these I havent specifically 
commented on them in my decision as I dont consider them  important to the mis-sale  
argument. Theyre more  relevant  to a complaint about the insurers decision to decline the 
claim.
Ref: DRN41201313my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4120131