K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC wrongly  rejected  his claim under 
section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
background
Mr H bought a second-hand  car, paying the deposit via his Tesco credit  card.  Mr H says it 
soon became clear  the car hadnt  been of satisfactory quality at the time of sale, when a 
major fault showed  itself. 
Mr H had the car repaired and eventually sold it. He claimed back the amount of the deposit 
from Tesco as a chargeback, saying he also expected  the full reimbursement of his losses 
for mis-sold  goods as hed paid by his credit card. Tesco treated this as a claim under 
section 75.
Tesco had already paid Mr H £40 for customer service issues  and offered him a further £50, 
but they didnt accept  his claim under section 75. They said they lacked the evidence that 
the fault in the car had existed at the time of sale.
Mr H didnt accept Tescos  conclusions and came to the ombudsman  service.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Hs complaint. She didnt think  Tesco  should have to repay  Mr H 
the deposit, as Mr H had had the use of the car and had eventually sold it. Instead she 
recommended Tesco  should pay Mr H the cost of the repair, plus £100 in total as further  
compensation for customer  service issues, instead of a further  £50.
Tesco didnt  respond to the investigators conclusions. Mr H at first accepted them,  but he 
became upset by Tescos  failure to respond to the investigators conclusions.  He therefore 
said he would ask for his original claim to be met (repayment of deposit, failing which higher 
compensation than £100).  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco didnt  respond to the investigators conclusions, and I find Ive reached the same 
conclusions and for similar reasons. 
I dont think  subject  to one point - it would be fair in the circumstances to award  Mr H more 
than the cost of the repair, in terms of his section 75 claim. This represents  in real terms the 
loss Mr H suffered on the facts of this case.
Although I can understand Mr Hs feelings, it isnt the ombudsman services  practice to fine 
or punish financial businesses. I think that the £100 additional compensation is fair for the 
trouble and upset  caused to Mr H by the customer service issues.
Some further points  regarding compensation:
Ref: DRN47166602Mr H says he paid for the repair by cash 14 days  after the invoice was issued. So 
Tesco must also pay 8% simple yearly interest  from 27 November 2018 to the 
settlement date.
To be clear, ignoring the £40 compensation paid to Mr H earlier, Tesco must pay him 
in all £100 further compensation. If, as it appears may be the case, Tesco has 
already paid Mr H a further  £50 pursuant to their final response letter, then obviously 
they need only pay a further £50. 
On the face of it, Ill be asking Tesco to compensate Mr H for the cost of repair in 
Euros, and for trouble and upset  in pounds sterling. When  accepting my final 
decision (if he does), Mr H may specify,  if he wishes to do so, that all the 
compensation should be paid in the one or the other  currency, and Tesco  should  
then make the appropriate  arrangements,  making sure they use a fair and 
reasonable exchange rate. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC should  pay Mr H:
€1,075.99  plus 8% simple yearly  interest  from 27 November 2018 to the date of 
settlement, and
£100 further compensation, as further explained above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4716660