K820x#14complaint
Its agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill just refer to FICL in 
my decision.
Mrs E says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs E took out with a store card in November 1998. It 
was added to her account when  she applied for the card in the store  whilst  shopping.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.  
Mrs E mainly  said that she cant recall PPI being  discussed or agreeing  to it, and she feels it 
was applied to her account without her being able to make  an informed choice. Mrs E also 
told us that PPI wasnt something  she would've  wanted or needed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Es case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Es complaint and Ill explain why.
It isnt reasonable  to expect Mrs E to remember  exactly what  was discussed when she took 
out PPI so long ago. I have to look at everything  and decide  what  I think is most likely. 
FICL has given us a copy of Mrs Es completed store card application. Mrs E has signed in 
the PPI part of the form, next to where  it says Yes, I would like to protect  my Account with 
Account CoverPlease debit my Account  with the relevant  monthly premium until further 
notice. I think its reasonable to expect Mrs E wouldve first read through anything she was 
asked to sign. So, although I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it 
wouldve been clear from the paperwork that it was up to Mrs E to say if she wanted to have 
PPI added on. 
Mrs E also signed the completed application  at the end of the form. So it seems to me that 
she must have agreed with the information on the form at the time  even if, understandably,  
she has forgotten this now.  On balance, I find that Mrs E was aware  the policy  was optional 
and she chose to take it out.
FICL shouldve given Mrs E enough  clear  information to decide if the policy was right for her.
Its possible some information FICL gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. So I need to consider if Mrs E wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if 
clearer information had been provided. 
Ref: DRN47648522Mrs E told us that she had secure  employment and she wouldve got at least 6 months full 
sick pay from her employer. But no job can be guaranteed to be secure  indefinitely.  And this 
policy couldve paid out for longer than 6 months  and on top of her sick pay from work  
which could've been useful if Mrs E had extra costs as a result  of illness or a disability. The 
policy wouldve paid a benefit for as long as Mrs E was off work  sick or if Mrs E lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. In the event  of a successful claim, the policy couldve 
cleared the card balance if Mrs E wasnt able to go back to work. 
Relying on other  people to help out in the event of money problems  isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
So I think Mrs E couldve  benefitted  from having PPI.
 
It doesnt look as if Mrs E was affected  by any of the things  the policy didnt cover.  So, I dont 
think more information  about the policy exclusions and limitations  wouldve made any 
difference to Mrs Es decision to take out PPI. 
I dont think its likely  that FICL gave Mrs E clear enough information  about the costs of the 
PPI policy. But Mrs E chose to take out the policy when she didnt have  to  so she seems to 
have wanted it at the time. And Mrs E indicated on the application  form that she was happy 
to pay to have  it. As it was a policy she paid for monthly Mrs E couldve cancelled it at any 
time without  any financial  penalty if she changed her mind about having it or she no longer 
wanted to pay for it.
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  Mrs E, I think it unlikely she wouldve  made  
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. On balance  I think  shed still 
have taken out the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4764852