K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI)  Bristol & West at the time of the sale 
- mis-sold her a monthly premium payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case in July 2019 explaining why I considered this 
complaint to be correctly  set up against  BOI and why I thought Miss G had been mis-sold  
PPI. A copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms part of my final decision.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments and evidence  they would like 
me to consider. Miss G agreed  with my provisional decision. BOI disagreed  with it. I have 
considered BOI points  below.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BOI have said that I have  accepted in my provisional decision that an introducer was 
involved in the sale. However, to be clear,  I have not seen any evidence to suggest  to me 
that an introducer was involved in the sale of the PPI policy and I dont think the Scratchpad  
entry I have been  provided is sufficient for me to conclude that the PPI was sold by a third 
party. I also set out in my provisional decision that Miss G was clear that her dealings were  
with Bristol & West. BOIs  comments dont add anything further to what I have already 
considered and so I see no reason to depart from my findings that BOI were  responsible  for 
this sale.
BOI have also questioned  why I have simply taken Miss Gs word for it when she says she 
was self-employed  at the time of the sale. The reason I accepted what  Miss G had told us is 
because there is no inconsistent evidence to suggest otherwise. 
However, following  BOIs response to my provisional decision, we asked Miss G for any 
evidence and/or information about her self-employment status  from around  the time of the 
sale. Miss G has explained that she became self-employed  in 1999 and provided further 
information around surrounding  her work  situation. Even though  Miss G cant  provide us with 
exact dates, she has been consistent that she started working as self-employed in 1999. 
Given that the PPI was sold late in 1999,  even if Miss G didnt become self-employed  until 
the end of 1999, I think that if the restrictions relating  to self-employed  people had been 
made clear to her at the time of the sale then she wouldnt have taken the policy  out as she 
would have known  that she was about  to start working in a fully self-employed  capacity 
within a very short  period  of time.
Having reconsidered  all the relevant evidence, I still think  Miss G was mis-sold PPI.
fair compensation
BOI should put Miss G in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The policy  
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and BOI should:
Pay Miss G the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Ref: DRN49758862Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Miss G made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, BOI can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires BOI to take off tax from this interest. BOI must give   
Miss G a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Gs complaint against  Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc and require  them to pay Miss G 
the compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN49758863copy  of my provisional  decision
complaint
Miss G complains  that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI)   Bristol & West at the time of the sale - mis-
sold her a monthly premium  payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background 
Miss G took out a mortgage in 1999.  She was sold the PPI policy in connection  with this mortgage.
Our adjudicator thought that Miss Gs complaint should be upheld because Miss G has told us she 
was self-employed at the time of the sale and the circumstances in which  a self-employed person  
could make a claim were quite limited. So our adjudicator  thought  the policy  wasnt suitable  for Miss 
G.
BOI responded to the adjudicators  view by saying that they were  not responsible  for the sale of the 
PPI and that the policy  was sold by a broker. They provided their scratchpad record which  they say 
shows the mortgage was introduced. In any event, they say they have no record  of Miss G being 
self-employed at the time of the sale and no reason to believe the broker wouldnt have explained the 
terms to Miss G.  
Another adjudicator considered the complaint and concluded that BOI were responsible for the sale. 
BOI again disagreed and so the complaint  has come to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
For the purposes of this decision, I have first of all considered whether BOI are responsible for the 
sale and then gone on to consider the merits of the complaint. 
are BOI responsible for this sale?
BOI say they werent  responsible for the sale and the evidence they rely on comes from a scratchpad 
record. BOI have provided us with a screen shot of this scratchpad. There is an entry on this dated 
13 September 1999 which  says into case 95%ltv and a further entry which  says file recd. BoS 
says this shows that the mortgage was introduced.  They  have no other records or information about 
who introduced the mortgage.
I have thought  carefully about this entry. However, I dont think this on its own is sufficient to show 
that the PPI was sold by a third party. And there is no evidence of who this introducer  was or what 
capacity they were acting in.
I appreciate Miss Gs recollection of events might not be very clear  surrounding how the sale took 
place given that the sale took place  such a long time ago. However, she was clear that the mortgage 
and PPI were sold by Bristol & West. The mortgage  was with Bristol  & West  and the paperwork  that I 
have seen referencing PPI has all come from Bristol  & West.  
BOI have provided  a sample mortgage application form from around the time of the sale. In particular  
they have highlighted the section where the consumer would have ticked if an intermediary  was 
involved. However,  this in itself does not take us any further forward as we dont have a copy of the 
application form completed by Miss G and so there is no evidence to suggest  that she did tick a box 
which said that an intermediary had sold the mortgage  and PPI.
So based on the limited evidence  available  to me, I think its more likely  that BOI (Bristol & West  at 
the time of the sale) sold Miss G this PPI policy.
As I have found that BOI are responsible for this sale, I have now gone on to consider whether or not 
they mis-sold  Miss G this policy.
Ref: DRN49758864mis-sale
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold Miss Gs complaint. I will now explain why.
BOI have no paperwork from the time of the sale so its not clear whether they advised   Miss G to 
take PPI or not. If they did they would have had to have  taken  adequate  steps to ensure the policy 
was suitable for Miss G. I cant say whether they took all the steps that they should have but I dont 
think the policy was suitable for Miss G. 
Miss G has told us that she was self-employed at the time of the sale and has continued to work  in 
this capacity since then. I have no reason  to doubt  that Miss G was self-employed at the time of the 
sale. The policy document that BOI say wouldve applied  at the time of the sale sets out the 
requirements that Miss G would  have  had to meet in order to make a successful claim for 
unemployment. The requirements are much harsher  for a self-employed person than an employed  
person and Miss G is likely to have had to incur a lot more time and expense before she could  make a 
successful claim  under  the policy. 
So based on the onerous terms  for self-employed  people  under the policy, I dont think  the policy  was 
suitable for Miss G.
Even if BOI say they didnt advise Miss G to take PPI, they would still have had to provide Miss G with 
clear enough information  about the policy  so that she could make a proper decision about whether or 
not the policy  was right for her. Again  I cant say whether  or not all of the information was provided to 
her as it should have been. But I do think that if the restrictive terms relating to self-employed  people 
being able to make a claim for unemployment under the policy were  made  clear to Miss G as they 
should have been, then I dont think she would have taken the policy out.
So I think BOI mis-sold Miss G this PPI policy.
proposed fair compensation
BOI should put Miss G in the position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The policy  should 
be cancelled, if it hasnt been  cancelled  already, and BOI should:
Pay Miss G the amount  she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  she paid it until she gets it back. The rate of 
interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Miss G made a successful claim  under the PPI policy,  BOI can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes her.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  BOI to take off tax from this interest. BOI must give   Miss G a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
I currently think Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc are responsible  for the sale of the policy. And I currently 
think Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc mis-sold Miss G PPI. So, unless I receive  further evidence which 
changes my mind, I intend  to uphold  Miss Gs complaint against Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc and will 
require them to pay Miss G the compensation as set out above.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4975886