K820x#14complaint
Mr A says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background
Mr A bought the policy in 1995  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
Given that its been over 20 years  since the credit card and PPI were sold, theres  very 
limited information about  it. So when making my decision Ive thought about whats most 
likely to have happened  bearing  in mind everything Mr A and Lloyds have said.
I think its likely Lloyds made  Mr A aware that he had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that 
he chose to take it. In his complaint Mr A has given a number of reasons about why he 
wasnt given a choice  about taking PPI. He said he was told that he had to have it as a 
requirement of getting the finance, and that he was told it wasnt  optional.  But he also said 
he was completely unaware that he had it. So Im not persuaded that Mr A wasnt given a 
choice, given his conflicting recollections  of what happened.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr A, and it seems to have been right for him based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
Mr A explains that he was entitled  to up to six months sick pay if he was too unwell to work. 
He also says he couldve relied on his friends and family to help him make his credit  card 
payments if he needed to.
The PPI policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim. This 
wouldve been in addition to Mr As sick pay, and it also wouldve covered  him if hed lost his 
job. I know hes said he could rely on his friends  and family, but help from others isnt always 
guaranteed. So in the circumstances, I dont think the recommendation that Lloyds made  
was unsuitable  based on what I know about him.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Mr A doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover  such as a pre-existing medical  condition or unusual  working  arrangements.  
And based on what I know about his circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been 
useful to him. So I dont  think  better information  wouldve  stopped him buying it. 
Ref: DRN45296372I want to reassure Mr A that Ive thought  carefully about everything hes said. But having 
done so, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold this PPI policy to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4529637