K820x#14The complaint
Ms S says AXA France IARD (AXA)  mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI)
policy.
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of the policy  insurer.  I cant  consider
this complaint against the seller of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place
before that firm, or its predecessor-in-title,  were  regulated by the then Financial Services
Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation activities or were otherwise covered by our 
jurisdiction.
But the seller  was acting as the insurers agent. And the insurer has subsequently 
transferred its business to AXA, so it has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things
simple, Ill mainly refer to AXA in this decision, unless its clearer  to do otherwise.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Ms S took out in 1995. It was
sold to her in-store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion
so, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Ms Ss case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms S says the PPI was applied to her account during a telephone call. AXA says the policy  
was taken out during an interaction in a store. And it has provided  a copy  of Ms Ss 
application form. Looking  at the form, I think it was applied  for in a face to face meeting  
because the form includes information  about  the store where Ms S applied for the store card.  
AXA has also provided copies of its records, and this states the policy was sold in a store. In 
my experience, if the PPI had been  sold over the phone, AXAs  records would indicate this. 
However, the policy was sold, AXA should  have taken reasonable steps to make it clear the 
PPI was optional.  Ms S application form has a section for the PPI and applicants can select 
yes or no to take out the policy or not. In this section, the yes box has been  selected. And 
Ms S has signed the overall credit agreement, so, I think if there was anything  on the form 
she wasn't sure about or hadn't agreed  to, Ms S would have had the opportunity to question  
it at the time.
On balance, I think AXA made it clear that Ms S didnt have to take out the PPI, and she
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Ms S, so it didnt  have to check  if it was suitable  for her.
But it did have to make  sure Ms S got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for
her.
Ref: DRN44361482Its possible the information AXA gave Ms S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  Ms S says she wouldnt 
have received any sick pay benefits  from her employer. It also doesnt look like she had any 
other means   such as savings  to make  her repayments. So, I think  it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong. I also havent seen  anything  to make  me think  the 
PPI was unaffordable. All of this means  I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover.
Overall, I dont  think Ms S has lost out because  of anything AXA might have done  wrong.
Ive thought carefully about everything Ms S has said, but for the reasons explained above
these points dont  change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or
reject my decision  before 12 March  2021.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4436148