K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with various  aspects of a hire purchase agreement provided by BMW  
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS). 
background
Mr S acquired a car in late 2013  that he says had various faults with it. Around March  2016 it 
was agreed with a dealer for him to return the car and take a new finance agreement  for a 
different model  in order to sort out the situation.
In April 2016 Mr S acquired a used car, partly financed by a hire purchase agreement  
provided by BMWFS. The agreement financed £22,874.59  over 36 months. The repayments  
were £429.88 a month and the agreement  included a final balloon payment of £11,607.89 if 
Mr S wanted  to keep  the car at the end of the term.
Mr S says no checks were completed when  this finance was provided to him. BMWFS say a 
credit check  was completed and the finance  was automatically accepted at underwriting, 
considering various  pieces of information. 
Mr S told us he has suffered from health issues since around 2011,  and as a result  of these 
worsening he later lost his job and ran into financial difficulty. Around February 2018 he says 
he spoke to BMWFS about this having  made a late repayment. A repayment  plan was put in 
place and Mr S says he maintained all repayments  moving forward.
A letter was sent to Mr S in October 2018  giving  him some  options for the car. This said he 
could either  part exchange it for a new one, make  the final repayment  and keep the car, or 
hand it back.
Mr S said he wanted to keep the car and refinance  the balloon  payment. BMWFS  declined  
Mr Ss request to refinance the outstanding  balance. Mr S believes this was because  of his 
health conditions  and said BMWFS have discriminated against him for this reason.
Mr S complained to BMWFS. He said he was promised that he could  refinance  the car at the 
end of the term when he took the agreement. He said no checks were  done when he 
originally took the finance. And he said he believed the decision to not let him refinance the 
agreement was due to BMWFS being aware  of his health conditions. 
In February 2019  BMWFS sent its final response  letter to Mr S. It said Mr S had confirmed 
he could afford the agreement before  he took it and signed to say it was suitable for him. It 
also said its underwriting team will look at a number of aspects when considering refinancing  
and there  is no guarantee that refinance will be accepted.
Mr S was unhappy with this and referred  his complaint to our service.  Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. He said he thought  BMWFS did sufficient checks when it gave Mr S 
finance. And he said it wasnt guaranteed that BMWFS would offer to refinance the 
agreement at the end of the term. He also said he hadnt seen evidence BMWFS declined 
the application to refinance the agreement due to Mr Ss health  conditions.
Mr S disagreed. He said, in summary, that BMWFS didnt do enough  checks  when he took 
the agreement. He said he believes BMWFS didnt treat him fairly when he applied to 
refinance the agreement and discriminated against  him. He said he thought the wording  from 
Ref: DRN49535972BMWFS on some documents showed he would be able to refinance. He also said he was 
misled as the agreement  was titled  as a hire purchase, when he thought  it was personal 
contract purchase (PCP) agreement. Mr S also raised some points about his previous  car 
and believed  he shouldve  been  allowed to reject this as it wasnt  of satisfactory quality.  
Our investigator responded. He said the issue of not being allowed to reject  the initial car 
hadnt been previously raised, so he couldnt  consider this further.  He reiterated that he 
thought BMWFS had done  enough checks when it agreed the finance. He said he still hadnt 
seen anything to suggest BMWFS had declined the application to refinance due to Mr Ss 
health issues. He also said he didnt agree the wording Mr S pointed out indicated  that he 
would definitely  be able to refinance the agreement.
Mr S remained unhappy  with this opinion and the complaint was passed for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 December 2020.  This explained that I initially  didnt think 
Mr Ss complaint should be upheld, but Id reached  this conclusion in part for different 
reasons to our investigator. The findings from this decision  were  as follows:
My decision  will focus on what I think are the key points and evidence  in relation to Mr Ss 
complaint. I want to reassure Mr S that I have  read and carefully considered  everything hes 
told us and provided. Where I have  summarised points raised, this simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service.
This complaint is about the administration  of a hire purchase agreement. Providing and 
administering consumer  credit contracts  like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied our 
service can investigate Mr Ss complaint about  BMWFS.
Mr S has raised several points so I will address these in turn. I have not looked  into the issue 
later raised by Mr S about the satisfactory quality of the initial  car he acquired  he will need 
to raise this as a separate complaint  if he still wishes to pursue this.
Did BMWFS do sufficient  checks  when it agreed the lending in April 2016?
There isnt a set list of checks BMWFS needed to do when deciding if the lending was 
suitable for Mr S. But, it needed to do proportionate  checks to make  sure it was responsible 
to lend to Mr S and that he could afford the borrowing he was taking on. Mr S says sufficient  
checks werent completed.
Our investigator said BMWFS had done  enough  checks when it provided Mr S with the hire 
purchase agreement  in April 2016.  But, I disagree with him on this point. Ill explain why.
BMWFS say this agreement  was auto-accepted  by its underwriters. It said this means  they 
considered Mr Ss employment  status,  residential  status and age along with the monthly  
repayments. It also says it performed a credit check  but it hasnt been  able to provide 
further details  of this.
Mr S says BMWFS didnt  complete a credit check. Hes provided  some screenshots from a 
credit scoring website that he says show this.
There is clearly  some  debate here about whether BMWFS  did a credit  check  on Mr S or not 
at this time.  I dont  know for sure what happened  here. But, I dont think I need to make a 
Ref: DRN49535973finding about whether this happened  or not. I say this as Im satisfied that even if BMWFS  
did do a credit check on Mr S, this still wouldnt have been enough to ensure the lending  was 
responsible and that he could afford  the borrowing.
BMWFS provided  Mr S with credit of around £25,000, with monthly repayments in excess of 
£400 a month over at term of three years. I appreciate Mr S already had finance with 
BMWFS. But, this was a new agreement and represented a significant  financial commitment.  
Bearing this in mind, I wouldve expected BMWFS to check further details from Mr S, such 
as his income and expenditure  or by doing a review of his bank  statements.
I need to consider if this had any impact on Mr S. So, what  I now need to think about is what  
wouldve happened if BMWFS did do sufficient checks  at the time.  
I asked Mr S to provide  bank statements from around the time the lending was approved  so I 
could see what his income and other commitments were. But he said he didnt believe he 
could get hold of these.  So, I asked  him to provide  a breakdown of his income  and 
outgoings. But he declined  to provide this. So, in the absence of any further information, I 
need to base my findings on what evidence I do have.
Ive seen some emails from Mr S from around the time this lending  was discussed. 
Mr S said:
I have never once  missed a payment and earn more than enough to cover £400  a month. 
Ive also considered a form from the time Mr S agreed to the credit.  This says:
DO NOT SIGN YOUR CREDIT AGREEMENT  UNLESS YOU ARE SATISFIED THAT IT IS 
SUITABLE FOR YOUR NEEDS  AND  THAT  YOU  WILL BE ABLE TO MEET THE 
REPAYMENTS WITHOUT UNDUE DIFFICULTY DURING THE AGREEMENT
It appears Mr S signed and dated  below this statement.
Ive also considered that Mr S had a credit  agreement in place with BMWFS  for his previous 
car when  this finance was agreed. The monthly repayments were only around £15 a month 
lower than the new agreement. And Mr S had maintained repayments on this account  for 
around two and a half years. 
I appreciate this doesnt tell the whole  story.  But considering the lack of other evidence, and 
given Mr S specifically told BMWFS that he earned more  than enough to cover the monthly  
repayments, I havent seen enough to make me think its most likely that Mr S couldnt  have 
afforded the borrowing or that it was irresponsible for BMWFS to lend to him. 
So, even though Im satisfied  BMWFS didnt do enough checks,  I dont think  its likely this 
wouldve affected its decision  to lend. It follows that Im satisfied this didnt have any impact  
on Mr S, so I dont think BMWFS needs to take any action here. 
I will of course  reconsider  this before my final decision, if Mr S provides evidence from the 
time such as bank statements or a detailed account of his income and expenditure along 
with other  evidence such as wage slips,  mortgage statements and bills.
Did BMW do anything  wrong when it declined  to refinance the agreement?
Ref: DRN49535974Mr S is unhappy that when it came towards the end of the term, BMWFS wouldnt allow  him 
to refinance the outstanding amount so he could keep the car. Mr S has gone  into some  
detail about this issue and believes BMWFS have discriminated against him because of his 
heath conditions.  So, Ill consider if I think it did anything wrong  when it declined  Mr Ss 
request to refinance. 
BMWFS have said that this application was declined  by its underwriters. It provided some  
information from Mr Ss credit file that shows at the time he asked to refinance this 
agreement, he had defaulted on a pay day loan and was in arrears  on another account. 
I understand the reasons  behind Mr S making  late repayments on his hire purchase 
agreement with BMWFS, and I was sorry to read about the situation with his health. But I 
also need to consider late payments,  whatever the reason for them,  may affect  an 
underwriters decision  to lend.
I can see Mr S spoke  to BMWFS around February  2018 and informed it of his health  issues.  
But, given the information provided  by BMWFS about Mr Ss credit file and payment history  
on this account,  on balance, I think its most likely  his application was declined  due to his 
financial situation. It follows that Im not persuaded Mr Ss request to refinance  was declined 
because of his health. So, I dont think BMWFS needs to take any action here.
Was Mr S given  incorrect information about  the finance?
Mr S says he was told that he would  always be able to refinance the car and continue to pay 
for it until he owned it. He says the finance agreement  was misleading. And he says 
information sent by BMWFS says he would be able to refinance.
Ive thought about what Mr S was told before he took the finance agreement.  Ive carefully  
considered what  he said happened here. When deciding if the finance was misrepresented  
to Mr S, I need to consider if a false statement  of fact was made to him about the finance. 
I appreciate this took place some time ago. And I dont  have  access to the conversations 
held. But, its worth noting in this particular  case that I dont think  it would be enough  for me 
to consider that a misrepresentation occurred if Mr S was told he could refinance the 
agreement at the end of the term  as this was a potential option. I would consider a false  
statement of fact to be something along the lines of Mr S being told that he could  refinance  
the agreement  regardless of his credit score, payment history or financial situation  in the 
future. On balance,  I dont think its likely he was told this.
Ive also looked  at the terms  and conditions from the time. But I cant see anything that says 
its guaranteed  that Mr S could  refinance at the end of the term.
Ive thought carefully about this. But, on the balance of probabilities I dont think  its most 
likely the finance  was misrepresented or misdescribed  to Mr S before he agreed to it.
Ive also thought about what  Mr S said about the documents he was sent towards  the end of 
the term. The two sections he highlighted say:
You can refinance the final payment amount with BMW Financial Services and,
Ask to speak to one of our finance  specialists at your BMW Centre  who will be happy to 
discuss a new finance agreement to spread the cost of the final payment.
Ref: DRN49535975Thinking about  this, Im satisfied neither of these  statements imply Mr S could  refinance  
regardless of his financial situation. And, having reviewed the other  communication from 
BMWFS, I cant  see that it stated it was guaranteed  that Mr S could refinance the 
agreement. I should  point  out that even if it did say this, I still wouldnt expect BMWFS to 
lend to Mr S automatically.  I would  still expect it to make proportionate checks to ensure any 
borrowing was responsible and affordable.
Finally, Ive considered  what Mr S said about  the title of the credit agreement. He said he 
thinks this was misleading, as it was called a hire purchase agreement, rather  than a PCP 
agreement. I can see the agreement Mr S signed is titled  Hire Purchase  Agreement.
Its worth  pointing  out that PCP agreements are a form of hire purchase. So even if I did 
think the agreement  was a PCP, I may reach the conclusion the title was not misleading. 
But, in this case I think Mr S did have a hire purchase agreement  rather than a PCP. I 
appreciate the terms and conditions explain Mr S can return  the car at the end of the 
agreement or he needed  to make a balloon payment to keep the car. But, the agreement 
doesnt contain a guaranteed  future  value (GFV) for the car  which  is generally  considered  
to be a feature  of PCP agreements. So, in this particular case  I dont think the title of the 
credit agreement is misleading.
I gave both parties four weeks to respond with any more information  or evidence before I 
made my final decision.
BMWFS did not respond to my provisional  decision.
Mr S responded and said he disagreed  with the outcome  I had reached.  He raised various 
points for me to consider.  And he also provided  some screenshots showing some  financial 
commitments from the time along  with his income and expenditure.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still dont think this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
Mr S responded in some length to my provisional decision and made a lot of individual  
points. I wont respond  to each of these in turn  Ill instead focus  on what I think  are the key 
points and issues raised here. I want to point out to Mr S that not addressing  everything  hes 
said in detail isnt due to me considering what hes said unimportant  this just reflects the 
informal nature of our service. I can reassure Mr S that Ive carefully considered  everything 
he said in response  to my provisional decision.
Mr S said he thought BMWFS did not auto accept his application and it deliberately didnt 
update his information so the lending would  be approved. I accept it appears BMWFS didnt  
update Mr Ss information,  but I havent  seen anything to suggest  this was purposefully done 
so the application was accepted. If I accepted that the application was manually overwritten, 
I would still think BMWFS didnt do enough checks when  it agreed to lend to Mr S  so 
ultimately this doesnt affect my decision.
Ref: DRN49535976Mr S says he was forced into taking  the agreement under  duress. Ive carefully thought 
about this. But I havent seen enough to make me think  its likely  this was the case.
Mr S reiterated that he believed he was discriminated against. But having  considered  
everything again, I still dont believe it was most likely that this was the case   for the same 
reasons as explained in my provisional  decision.
Mr S says he had late repayments  on his credit file from the time he took the agreement.  
Hes shown some  screenshots from the time from what appears to be a shopping or 
catalogue account. But these screenshots dont state late repayments were  made  or that a 
repayment was due.
Ive also carefully considered the information Mr S sent in about his income  and expenditure. 
Mr S has provided a very detailed breakdown of his outgoings, including  his travel, clothing, 
phone costs, unsecured  debt repayments,  all associated costs for the car including servicing 
and insurance  etc. This does include some things, such as buying lunch at work every  day, 
that I wouldnt normally consider to be strict  financial commitments. But, looking at the 
figures hes provided and even including all of the expenses hes listed,  his own calculations  
do still leave some disposable income   although  I accept this isnt a large amount.
After Mr S provided his income and expenditure I asked him to provide some evidence  to 
back up what he told us  in particular around the unsecured debts he said he had at the 
time. Im satisfied Mr S had sufficient opportunity to do this and was aware  of the reasons for 
requesting this information. 
Mr S has provided some  evidence  here  but I do have some  concerns about some missing  
information and some inconsistencies  with what he told us about his unsecured debts. This 
is important, as Mr S says the minimum repayments  on these debts at the time the lending 
was agreed with BMWFS were nearly  £400 a month  which is a significant  commitment.
Mr S said he had various credit accounts when he took the hire purchase agreement  
including store cards and credit cards. While hes shown the balances  of two of these 
accounts from around the time, for the majority of the debts  he told us about he hasnt  
evidenced the amount owed. 
Mr S did evidence repayments to two other  accounts, which  he says show  the minimum 
amount due. But one is a card payment and one an online  payment   neither is a direct  
debit. Neither repayment say this was the minimum amount due.  And  both amounts paid 
are round figures. I cant be sure these payments show the minimum repayment due to the 
accounts. And either way, Mr S hasnt  shown the actual balance  of these accounts.
In total, Mr S said he had around £14,500 of unsecured debt in 2016 when the lending with 
BMWFS was agreed. But hes only been  able to show evidence of balances totalling  around 
£6,000.
Ive carefully thought  about all of this along with Mr Ss income from the time. Ive considered 
that he had a job and was living at home  with family. Ive considered  that Mr S made similar  
repayments on his previous  agreement,  apparently without issue,  for some time.  
I appreciate Mr S said what he told BMWFS when discussing swapping his car about being  
able to more than afford £400 a month was a flippant comment.  But, I have had this in mind,  
Ref: DRN49535977along with what  Mr S signed at the time which I detailed in my provisional decision and set 
out above.
Thinking about  all of this, I dont think Mr S has provided enough to demonstrate the lending 
wasnt affordable for him. So, it follows I still think,  if BMWFS had done sufficient checks at 
the time it provided  Mr S with credit, that this wouldnt have affected its decision to lend to 
him.
Ive also considered that Mr S says he couldnt have afforded  to save enough money to 
cover the balloon repayment at the end of the term, so the agreement wasnt suitable for 
him. But, Mr S didnt have  to make the balloon payment  he had the option to hand  the car 
back without further payment.  So, this doesnt  change my opinion.
Ive carefully considered  everything else Mr S said.  But this doesnt change my opinion.  I still 
think this complaint should not be upheld, for the reasons above and set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2021.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4953597