K822xComplaint 
Mrs D has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly increased 
the cost of her pet insurance policy each  year.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mrs D took out, will continue  to cover  any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made. 
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mrs D. It has accepted 
the information it gave Mrs D about the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. And 
RSA has offered to pay her £500  compensation for the trouble and upset shes  been caused 
as a result  of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances 
of Mrs Ds complaint.
Mrs D has told us shes not happy  with the offer RSA has made because no other  insurer  
will cover her pets pre-existing conditions now, so she have no choice but to keep paying 
the increasing premiums  if she wants her pet to be covered.  Mrs D feels  RSA should reduce 
the cost of her policy to make it more affordable.
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide, 
and I dont have  the power to tell a business  what its insurance should cost.  I would be, in 
effect, determining  or telling a business how it should operate   and thats not my role. So I 
cant say the cost of Mrs Ds policy is too high, she should have been charged less for the 
policy or that she should be charged less in the future.
While Mrs Ds premium  has seen significant increases, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest RSA has treated  her differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder  
in the same position. So I cant tell RSA to charge her a lower premium going  forwards.
I understand this situation has caused  Mrs D a significant amount of distress as, due to her 
pets medical history and age, she cant find equivalent cover elsewhere. And I recognise the 
likely continuing increases in premium the in future may make the policy  unaffordable.
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Mrs D the information she needed  to understand 
she could end up in the position she now finds herself in. Where I find something has gone  
wrong, Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out.
Ref: DRN43251162If Mrs D hadnt  taken  a lifetime policy, she wouldve either had no cover at all, and would 
have had to pay for all her pets treatment  herself,  or a reduced level of cover, where  she 
would still have found herself in a situation where  her pets  conditions  were no longer 
covered.
I think its unlikely better  information  about  the possible future costs of the policy  would have 
resulted in Mrs D having the same level of cover  for ongoing conditions at a fixed  or capped  
premium  this type of policy  isnt generally  available. So it wouldnt be fair for me to put her 
in this position.  
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the upset and distress  Mrs D has 
experienced. It is a significant award  and I think it fairly compensates  Mrs D for the trouble 
and upset shes been caused.
My final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Mrs D £500  compensation is fair 
and reasonable.  I dont  require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4325116