K821x#15complaint
Ms C says Perrys Motor  Sales Limited mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy on a loan in 2005. For simplicity Ill refer to the business  as Perrys for the rest of this 
decision.
background
Ms C bought the policy in 2005  in connection  with a loan. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Perrys disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read and considered  the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments  to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider  it, but because I dont think  I need  to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. Weve set out our 
general approach  to complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account in deciding Ms Cs case.  
Its not straightforward to decide a case when the sale was so long ago and the 
documentation from the time of the sale is incomplete, as it is here. Where the evidence  
from the time is incomplete, I need  to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  
 that is to say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both sides have  said, and make a 
decision based on what I think most likely happened.  
Having reviewed all the submissions made in this case, I have reached the same outcome 
as our adjudicator  and for the same reasons. I explain  why below. 
The questions I need to consider are whether Perrys  gave Ms C information that was clear,  
fair and not misleading in order to put her in a position where she could make an informed 
choice about the insurance she was buying.  And whether in giving any advice or 
recommendation, Perrys took adequate steps to ensure the product it recommended  was 
suitable for her needs. 
Perrys has been silent on whether it gave Ms C any advice about whether  she should take 
out the policy. But Ms C says advice was given. I need make no firm finding on this because,  
having assessed this case on the lower test  a non-advised sale  and for the reasons 
given below, I do not think that Perrys ensured  Ms C was in a position to make  a properly 
informed choice. I am upholding Ms Cs complaint  because I think that Ms Cs employment  
status would  have made her ineligible for the policy she was sold,  most likely. 
Perrys has not been able to provide us the policy document for the policy it sold to Ms C. But 
we have been provided with a copy of the Hire Purchase agreement  documents.  These 
show that the agreement was between  Ms C and General Motors Acceptance Corporation 
(UK) plc and the application form for the PPI shows the premiums are paid to this same  
company. We have a policy document in our files from March  2007 for that business. It 
seems most likely that the terms would have been similar to those that applied to Ms C in 
2005. The 2007 document says that to be eligible for the policy you had to be working at 
Ref: DRN45411172least 16 hours a week and have been  in fulltime employment or self-employed  for at least  6 
consecutive months before the cover  began. 
The application form that Ms C signed has some similar wording in it. It asks, As at the 
commencement date of the agreement you will be over 18 years  of age and no more  than 70 
years of age at the expiry of the agreement. you are in full-time employment or full-time self-
employment and have been  so for the last 6 months.
So, I think that Ms C needed  to have been working  for 6 months before the policy  to be 
eligible for the policy she was sold, most likely.  
I think this would have  mattered to Ms C because she told us, prior to commencing 
employment on 5th November 05, I had been  unemployed since completing my college 
course in July 2005 (which commenced  Sep 2004). So, based  on what Ms C told us she 
was ineligible  for the policy that Perrys sold her. I note that the documents from the sale do 
not include an employment history question. So, I have no evidence  that undermines Ms Cs 
testimony on this matter. 
Perrys has pointed to the application form and the declarations section. This bit says, By 
ticking the appropriate box & signing  you are confirming  that,you are in full time 
employment or full-time self-employment and have been so for the last 6 months. It says 
that by signing  in this section Ms C was telling them that she was eligible for the policy. So, it 
thinks it supplied sufficient  information to Ms C to work out whether she was eligible or not, 
and it thinks she probably was eligible or she wouldnt  have signed this section.
Ive thought about this and I have noted  that the page that Perrys has pointed us to, and 
which contains the above declaration, is also numbered as page 17. It is part then of a much 
larger document the main purpose  of which is to secure the loan needed for Ms C to buy the 
car she wanted. To understand what Ms C was supposed to understand from this section, or 
to know what accommodation Perrys  gave their customers to closely  read such a document  
during the sale,  I would need to know how this was positioned with Ms C. Perrys has not 
provided any training  manual or guidance on how it instructed its staff to present this 
document. 
I note that some of the ticks and responses on the page called application  for payment 
protection plan  are pre ticked on the box. So, it seems that at the point in which Ms C is 
asked to sign the forms the conversation  about the PPI and what type of cover she could  
take had already taken place. I cant know what the representative  said to Ms C before she 
saw the application form or how they positioned the eligibility criteria with Ms C. But it seems  
most likely that they failed  to explain them properly or I cant  see why someone who was 
ineligible for a policy would proceed  to apply for it. 
Perrys now wishes to rely on the detail included in the application form to say it did explain  
the eligibility sufficiently. But the fact that the application form was partly pre-completed 
seems to limit Ms Cs contribution at the meeting to signing in certain places.  By choosing to 
represent important  information in this way, Perrys ran the risk that Ms C might not engage 
with all the information the form contained. Even had Ms C been  given the time during the 
meeting to read the application  forms before  making  her choice, these details  would have 
only revealed themselves  following a close reading of the documents, and in this case 
getting to page 17. But this information was important and needed to be sufficiently 
highlighted to her. 
Ref: DRN45411173Based on all of the submissions made  in this case, I dont think the submissions provided 
show that Perrys did sufficiently highlight important  information to Ms C. So, I dont think Ms 
C was given enough information  about  the policy when she decided  to take it out.  And I 
think she has suffered as a result. I say this because she has paid premiums for a policy  she 
was, most likely, ineligible for.  
I think that the policy was mis-sold and Perrys needs to do something to put things  right.
what Perrys should do to put things right
Perrys should put Ms C in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Perrys should:
Pay Ms C the amount  she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year. 
If Ms C made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy,  Perrys  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Perrys to take off tax from this interest. Perrys must give 
Ms C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Ms Cs complaint  and I direct  Perrys Motor Sales 
Limited to pay Ms C compensation in accordance  with the calculation  set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4541117