K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains he was mis-sold a Whole of Life (WOL) and savings policy  by Sun Life 
Assurance Company  of Canada (U.K.) Limited.
background
Mr G took out a unit-linked  reviewable WOL policy in November 1985 that provided life cover  
of £50,000 but also allowed him to pay something  towards savings. The premium of £15 was 
split between providing the life cover element of the policy (£12.45) and savings (£2.55). 
Mr G complained when  he received a letter from Sun Life in October 2018 which indicated a 
significant increase  to the premium would  be needed at some  point. He suggested that he 
wasnt aware that his premium could go up.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint a copy  of which is attached  and forms part of 
this decision. In short I made the following findings:
Mr G didnt need life cover when he first took out the policy  in 1985 and he is entitled  
to repayment  of premiums.
Mr G did want  life cover from 1999  at which time he was married so it was 
reasonable to deduct the cost of life cover from the premiums to be repaid from then.
I wasnt persuaded that he was misled about  the premium  being fixed as the policy  
documents wouldnt have said this and the reviews referred to the period of time the 
current premium  would  continue  to provide the life cover.
The cost of life cover is already more than the current  premium so the amount that 
has accrued in the protection part of the policy is being used  to help pay the costs.
Sun Life said the premiums should never  been used to buy savings units.  I 
understood it to mean the whole  premium of £15 shouldve  paid for protection units  
from the outset. I think this just means  the amount now standing in the savings part 
of his policy would instead be within the protection part of his policy.  He can move  
this money into the protection part of his policy now if he wants.
Sun Life had calculated what was owed to Mr G on the basis  he wouldve had life 
cover from 1999  and offered this to Mr G before he referred  his complaint so I wasnt 
upholding the complaint.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding to my provisional  decision. Sun Life said it 
had no further  comments. Mr G didnt agree with the provisional decision and made  the 
following comments:
He had already provided strong and compelling  evidence of mis-selling,  misinformation 
and miscalculations.
The suggestion he had a need  for life cover from 1999  is negated  by this as he had been 
misled into taking out the policy.
He has found  out that more than his premium has been  deducted  from the protection 
units value policy  for a considerable number of years without notification to him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN45427642I note what Mr G has said about  the evidence he has provided  and I took all the information 
he provided into account when making my provisional decision. There is no issue about his 
being mis-sold the policy in 1985  but for the reasons I have already explained I think  it is 
reasonable to deduct the cost of life cover from the redress payable from 1999.
I note what Mr G has said about  more  than the premium being deducted from the protection 
units for some years. But as I explained  in my provisional decision, once the cost of 
providing the life cover  is more than the premium the unit value that has built up in the 
protection part of the policy is used to help pay the costs. This is simply how the policy  works  
and I dont think Sun Life has done  anything  wrong  because it didnt specifically tell him that 
the costs are more  than the premium earlier. What  Sun Life has to do is review  the policy 
when necessary and tell Mr G the outcome of each review, as it has done.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above  and in my provisional 
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN45427643COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr G complains he was mis-sold a Whole of Life (WOL) and savings  policy by Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited.
background
Mr G took out a unit-linked reviewable WOL policy in November 1985 that provided life cover of 
£50,000 but also allowed him to pay something towards savings. The premium  of £15 was split 
between providing the life cover element of the policy (£12.45)  and savings  (£2.55). 
Mr G complained when he received a letter from Sun Life in October 2018 which  indicated a 
significant increase to the premium would be needed  at some point.  He suggested that he wasnt 
aware that his premium could go up.
Sun Life issued a final response to the complaint in which  it said there was no evidence to suggest  Mr 
G had been told the premium was guaranteed. So it said it was satisfied Mr G was aware the policy  
would be reviewed  and that the premium could potentially  increase.
Sun Life explained that a one-off charge of £4.65 had recently been incurred to correct an issue 
between the split of the monthly premium between the protection cost and savings amount.
Sun Life rejected  the specific concerns  raised  by Mr G but also considered  the overall  suitability of the 
WOL policy. It said the policy was designed for long term savings and to provide  protection. 
It said it was unable  to justify life cover being included  when the policy was sold but thought from 
August 1999  Mr G had a need for the life cover. It explained that this was because  he said that at that 
time he was married and thought he had put the policy  in trust and that he expected the policy to 
provide protection  for his family.
Sun Life offered  to cancel the policy and repay the premiums on the basis the policy wasnt suitable, 
but with the cost of life cover  and other costs from August 1999 deducted on the basis Mr G had a 
need for life cover from then. The total amount offered,  including interest but less tax, was £9,287. 
Sun Life explained it would  retain the current value  of his policy of £7,301.  In the alternative it offered 
to keep the policy going on its current  terms in which  case it would  pay him £1,965.
 
Mr G didnt agree to either offer and referred his complaint to us. He thought  Sun Life should repay  
the full premium plus interest. One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt uphold  it as 
he thought Mr G had a need for life cover from August 1999 and that the two offers made by Sun Life 
were fair.
Mr G didnt agree with the adjudicator.  He said Sun Life had stated that his premiums should  never 
have been used to buy savings units as the premium would never  have been enough to maintain the 
protection benefits for the whole of his life. He said he would not have  taken the policy  out if he had 
been made aware of the reviewable nature of the policy. And the fact his circumstances changed at 
some point didnt make  the policy legitimate.  
Mr G also said he didnt disagree  he had a need for life cover and that is why he was persuaded to 
take out the policy.  But he said that this doesnt mitigate the mis-sold  policy and potential six-fold 
increase in premiums  due to Sun Lifes error. He said the only acceptable recompense is the refund 
of his premiums plus interest.
As Mr G didnt agree  with the adjudicator the matter has been referred to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ref: DRN45427644Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Sun Life has said Mr G didnt need life cover in 1985, which I agree  with given he was only 20 years  
of age, single, and with no dependents.
On the basis that Mr G shouldnt have been sold the WOL policy in 1985 he is entitled to return of his 
premium plus interest from that date and there is no dispute about  that. I note that he has suggested 
interest should be compound but we normally  award simple interest at 8% which  is the basis Sun Life 
has used to calculate what is due and I think this is reasonable. 
The main issue in this case is whether the cost of life cover  should be deducted from the premiums to 
be repaid or not. Mr G argues it shouldnt  be on the basis he would never have taken out the policy in 
1985. I acknowledge he didnt have a need for life cover at that time so shouldnt  have been sold a 
policy that provided  this. Sun Life has agreed to repay the premiums in full between  1985 and 1999 
with interest. The question is whether  it should repay the full premium  after 1999.
Where it is clear that someone was sold life cover they would never otherwise have had it may be 
appropriate to give them a full refund  to date where  it is clear they wouldnt have had life cover at all. 
But where  there is a change  in circumstances  so that there is reason  to think that life cover wouldve  
been taken out at a later date and this has been provided for a long period of time after that, as in this 
case, I dont think it is fair or reasonable to award a full refund.
Mr G hasnt suggested  he didnt know he had life cover. He has said that he thought  he put the policy 
in trust for his wife in 1999. He has no evidence there was a trust and neither  does Sun Life. But given 
he thought he had put the policy in trust I think it is more likely than not this is something he has 
thought about at the time.  
In the circumstances I think he wanted life cover at least from 1999,  and he has had the benefit of that 
cover for a long period  of time. If he had died at any point  the policy  wouldve paid out and it is likely 
his wife wouldve  benefitted from it through his estate even though it wasnt placed in trust.
I note that Mr G argues that he didnt  make a conscious decision to take out life cover in 1999 but an 
uninformed decision to take out life cover in 1985. I acknowledge this, but he didnt need to make a 
conscious decision to take out life cover in 1999  because he already had this, and I think he made  a 
conscious decision to retain the policy. I am not persuaded  that Mr G didnt want or need life cover 
from 1999  given he was married at that time and thought  he had put the policy  in trust for his wife. 
He has kept the policy for a further 19 years before making any complaint and his complaint was not 
because he didnt want life cover but because he was unhappy with the letter  he received dated  10 
October 2018 which indicated a significant increase in premium would  be necessary. He has 
suggested that he thought  the premium  was fixed.
I think  it would help to set out how a unit- linked  reviewable whole  of life policy  works. The premium 
paid towards  the life cover purchases units in an underlying investment. The cost of life cover is then 
deducted by selling sufficient units to pay the costs. The remaining units  remain in the investment  so 
these can make a return. The premium is based on assumptions about  the cost of life cover in the 
future and the return on the investment part of the premium. 
The purpose  of the reviews is to see how costs  have actually increased  and the investment has 
performed as against the assumptions made. At each review further assumptions are made as to the 
costs of providing cover  and the investment performance in the future.
As the costs  of providing life cover increase  with age the purpose of the investment  is to build up a pot 
of money that can be used  to help pay the costs when  these have increased to a point the premium 
isnt enough to cover  the costs.
Ref: DRN45427645Im not persuaded  on the evidence I have seen  that Mr G was misled about  the premium being  fixed  
for the whole of his life. This isnt what the documents he wouldve been provided wouldve  said and 
any recollection he has of what he was told is so long ago it is unlikely  to be accurate.  
I think  it is also of note that although previous  reviews  didnt require an increase to the premium they 
did refer to the period of time the current premium  would  continue  to provide the life cover for. In the 
reviews in 2001, 2005  and 2010 this was a period of 25 years. In 2015 it was 16 to 24 years 
depending on growth.  So if Mr G thought the premium  was fixed  I wouldve expected him to raise this 
when he was made  aware that the premium would  only provide cover for a certain number of years.
The letter of 10 October 2018 explained that a past processing error  had caused the split between  the 
protection and savings  premium to be calculated  incorrectly so that the amount of premium  allocated 
to pay for the benefits of the policy was too low to cover the charges.  It said a small charge of £4.65 
had been made to rectify this. 
The letter also referred to a premium of £90.33 which is the figure that led Mr G to complain. This 
figure is what Sun Life calculated Mr G would have to pay to provide life cover for the whole  of his life 
from 2018,  as it explained  in its letter of 24 January 2019. But he wasnt being  asked to pay that figure  
at that time as Sun Life made clear.
It explained in further correspondence that the whole  of the current premium of £15 had to be paid 
towards the protection part of the policy with nothing towards savings  as the current costs  were  
£20.37. In other  words the costs were already above the premium and these  will continue to increase 
as he gets older as the costs of providing  life cover increases with age.
The part of the premium Mr G has paid towards the life cover that has been invested has meant he 
has a reasonable amount  available currently to make up the difference between the current  premium 
and the costs. But as the costs are already greater than the premium no further money is being 
invested so this pot will be reduced until the amount  he has accrued is exhausted.
When the amount  accrued  and premium are no longer  enough to cover the costs going forwards the 
premium has to increase to meet those costs,  and further increases in the premium may be 
necessary as costs increase. That is simply the way reviewable  whole of life policies work.
I have considered what Sun Life has said about incorrectly paying  part of the overall premium paid 
towards savings units when the policy  should  only have  been buying protection  units. But this mistake 
is not what  has led to the costs now being more than the premium. I note what  Sun Life said in its 
letter of 21 December 2018 when it stated:
 Your  premiums should never have been used to buy any savings  units. The premium would never  
have been sufficient to maintain the protection benefits being provided for the whole of your life. 
Therefore we have used  your premiums to buy savings units incorrectly from the inception  of the 
policy on 1 November 1985.
I understand this to mean that the whole of the premium of £15 shouldve been used to buy protection  
units from the outset.  But I dont think this means he wouldve been any better off now than if it had 
done this from the outset. I think it means the amount  currently  standing  in the savings  part of his 
policy would instead be within the protection part of his policy. Mr G can move this money  into the 
protection part of his policy  now if he wishes. 
Given my finding that Mr G wouldve had life cover from 1999 and was aware  of the reviewable nature 
of the policy and that premiums could increase and chose to keep the policy  going because  he 
wanted the life cover  I think the way Sun Life has calculated redress is fair and reasonable.   
Ref: DRN45427646my provisional  decision
I dont uphold  this complaint  for the reasons I have explained.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4542764