K820x#14complaint
Mr Fs complaint is about a claim he made on his Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited legal expenses insurance policy.
All references to Acromas  include their claims handlers. For clarity the 
claims handlers  in this case are also the sellers of the policy.
background
In January  2017,  Mr F was involved  in a car accident during  which he was 
injured.  As a result he made  a claim on his Acromas legal  expenses 
insurance policy.  
Acromas appointed a panel  firm to consider the claim. The panel firm got in 
touch with Mr F. When  they did, he suggested hed already instructed other 
solicitors and that hed get back to them  once  hed made enquiries about 
how those solicitors came to be instructed.  The panel firm agreed to place 
their file on hold whilst he did this. They then called  him again to find out 
whether he still needed their help. Mr F said he was still confused  about  
everything so it was agreed the panel  firm would call him again  in a week. 
The panel firm did this but there was no response. As a result  they wrote to 
him confirming they would close their file and provided advice around the 
limitation applicable to the claim.
Mr F complains that Acromas are now refusing  to cover the legal fees his 
solicitor has incurred  in respect of his personal injury claim. Acromas 
responded to that complaint. They  said that Mr F wasnt  entitled to choose 
his own solicitor under the terms of his policy and that he may wish to 
reconsider using  their panel firm should he be able to extricate himself from 
his agreement  with his own solicitors.
Mr F accepts that he might have missed Acromas solicitor  contacting  him 
because several firms had been in touch  with him at that time and he was 
suffering from a head injury. He also says that Acromas didnt make 
contact with him directly and he remains of the view that Acromas should 
cover his solicitors costs.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.  Having done  so, 
I dont think Mr Fs complaint should  be upheld. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN49616912Mr Fs policy sets out that Acromas will appoint a solicitor  for policyholders 
but if their claim  is at a point where  they can choose  their own solicitors-  
normally when  proceedings are required- those solicitors  must agree to 
Acromas terms of appointment.  We dont think thats unreasonable. In this 
case Mr F didnt approach Acromas to request they consider the 
appointment of his own solicitor- rather he called to make a claim. But after 
that claim had been  made, Acromas,  through their panel firm, discovered 
that solicitors had already been  instructed  by him. The panel firm explained 
that Mr F couldnt have two firms acting for him on the same claim. As a 
result they closed their file of papers.  
Acromas have since discovered that Mr F is pursuing his claim through  
another insurers solicitor. The issue seems to be that those solicitors may 
be charging under a conditional fee arrangement which  could mean that 
any damages he recovers might involve a deduction. Conversely if Mr F 
used Acromas panel firm, he wouldve been entitled  to 100% of any 
damages paid to him. Acromas  have said that theyre  still prepared  for their 
solicitors to take on the claim but this will depend on whether  Mr F can 
extricate himself  from his current  set of solicitors. Its up to Mr F if he wants  
to do this. At present I cant say that Acromas should pick up any of his 
own solicitors costs because no terms of appointment exist between them, 
nor have  those solicitors approached Acromas for funding.
When Mr F raised  his complaint with Acromas he was also unhappy that 
clinical negligence claims  were not covered  under  his policy.  Hes since 
said this is no longer an issue but for the sake of completeness Ill set out 
what I think about this. Mr Fs legal expenses insurance policy is motor 
legal assistance cover. That means its intended  to cover incidents arising  
out of motor  accidents. His policy refers to this being in circumstances 
where the other party is to blame. The policy  is not intended to cover 
clinical negligence claims- whether or not the reason Mr F was treated by a 
clinician was as a result of a motor accident. So theres  no cover for these  
types of claims. Because of this I dont think it was unreasonable  for 
Acromas to decline cover for this particular claim.
Finally, I know that Mr F feels his policy was mis-sold. I cant  consider  that 
complaint as its not against Acromas. Mr F will be aware  that his complaint  
about this has been  considered separately  by us against the seller  of that 
policy.
Ref: DRN49616913my final decision
For the reasons set out above,  I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against  
Acromas Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr F to accept or reject  my decision  before  30 September 2019
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4961691