K820x#14complaint
Miss S complaint is about a claim she made  on a legal expenses insurance policy.  
DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited  stopped funding that claim part way 
through, which Miss S says cost her a considerable amount  in legal fees to complete. Miss S 
wants DAS to reimburse her for the costs she says she incurred.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in February 2020, part of which is copied 
below:
In February  2013  Miss S made a claim on her legal expenses insurance  policy  for cover  to 
bring a claim  against her former employer.  DAS accepted the claim and began  to pursue it 
on her behalf. Part way through  Tribunal  proceedings, Miss S employer made an offer to 
settle the claim. Miss S didnt want to accept that offer but the panel firm DAS had instructed 
to act for her advised the offer was reasonable. 
Because Miss S didnt  accept the offer, DAS withdrew funding.  Miss S went  on to pursue the 
claim with the benefit of her own representatives  and win at trial, but she incurred 
considerable legal fees in doing  so. She now wants DAS to pay her costs in going to trial.
Our investigator considered Miss Ss complaint. She initially thought it wasnt  one we could 
consider because it was referred to us more  than six years after the event which gave  rise to 
the claim had happened  and more  than three years since  Miss S should have known they 
had cause for complaint. In addition, she didnt  think there  were  any exceptional reasons 
why Miss S didnt refer her complaint to us any sooner.  
Miss S disagreed with this and explained that she had complained to DAS when  they said 
they wouldnt cover her claim any longer. Our investigator considered this. She noted that 
Miss S did complain to DAS in September 2013 about their decision to stop covering her 
claim. Although DAS responded, they didnt provide her with referral rights to this service or 
explain that a complaint  needed to be made within six months. Those referral rights were  
only provided in a letter from DAS in March  2019.  Miss S brought  her complaint to this 
service within  six months of that letter, so the investigator said Miss S complaint wasnt  time 
barred. 
Because of this, she went on to investigate Miss S underlying complaint. After  doing so, she 
said that Miss S went back  to DAS with details of an opinion  from her barrister which said 
the merits of her claim against  her employer were  over 55%.  She concluded that DAS didnt 
do enough to look into this so it should  now reconsider Miss S claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms. She also said that if the claim was one that DAS should've covered 
at the time, they should reimburse the costs they shouldve covered together  with interest of 
8% per year simple.
DAS dont agree with the outcome the investigator  reached. They  say that although  Miss S 
sent them details  of her barrister to contact in relation to his opinion on the merits of her 
claim, this didnt change  their decision to turn down cover, which  was because Miss S didnt 
accept a reasonable offer to settle her claim.  Because of this, the matter  has been passed  to 
me to decide.
Ref: DRN40193792my provisional findings
Miss S wants her complaint to be investigated.  As our investigator explained, we can only 
look at a complaint  if it falls within our scheme  rules.  The time limits applicable to the referral 
of a complaint  can be found in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook, under DISP 
2.8.2R. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I agree that Miss S complaint is one we can consider because 
she raised a complaint with DAS about  their decision to turn down cover in September  2013 
and DAS responded to that complaint, but didnt provide referral rights  at the time. Instead 
they provided those  referral rights in a letter to her in March 2019.  As Miss S brought her 
complaint to this service  within  six months  of that letter, this is a complaint we can look at. 
Because of that Ive gone on to consider the merits of Miss S complaint against  DAS.
 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Miss Ss 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why below.
The policy terms say:
You must tell us if an offer is made to settle  the dispute. You must not negotiate or agree to 
settle the dispute without  having our agreement beforehand. If you do not accept a 
reasonable offer to settle the dispute,  we may not continue to support your claim.
In this case, Miss S employer made an offer to settle the claim, but Miss S thought the sum 
offered was too low. The panel  firm didnt agree. They advised the offer was reasonable and 
should be accepted. They also advised that one element  of her claim no longer had 
reasonable prospects of success. But DAS decision to turn down cover was based on the 
fact that Miss S wasnt prepared to accept the offer that had been made to her.
I know Miss S consulted her own barrister,  who advised her that the merits of her claim were  
over 55% but I dont  think that matters  much in this case. Whilst that might have been true, 
that didnt mean that DAS needed to do anything further if Miss S wasnt  prepared to accept  
the offer being made. I appreciate that Miss S went on to achieve more  at trial, but DAS was 
entitled to rely on the advice it received from the panel firm- and in this case that advice was 
that the offer was reasonable and should  be accepted. I havent seen anything to suggest 
that Miss S provided DAS with a barristers opinion to suggest the offer made  wasnt  a 
reasonable one. Rather Miss S provided DAS with a link to her barristers online profile and 
asked DAS to get in touch with him in respect  of the advice shed been given. I can see that 
DAS didnt follow this up- not least because they wouldnt have been able to access advice 
that wouldve  been confidential to Miss S- but also because theyd previously  advised  that 
such advice wouldnt have made a difference to their decision to turn down  cover.
In the absence of Miss S providing with DAS with contemporary legal advice to contradict 
that of the panel firm on the issue of whether the offer made was reasonable, I cant  say 
DAS did anything wrong. So, I wont be recommending they do anything  further.
Ref: DRN40193793developments
I asked both parties to provide any other comments or information they wanted considered in 
response to my provisional  decision. DAS have  confirmed they accept my findings  and have 
nothing further  to add. Miss S has also responded. She made the following points:
She disagrees with my findings  and thinks Ive misunderstood the facts;
DAS appointed their own representatives and a barrister, who mis-led her and were 
working alongside the policy, which was mis-sold. 
She didnt appoint her own representatives  and barrister as implied.
Shes troubled that Ive found  against  her and that I havent  been in touch sooner to ask 
for further supporting documents, which shows bias on my part. 
Shed  like further time to obtain information from the barrister to say that DAS asked for 
him to be instructed.  
Shed  also like to provide timelines and further  points but requires a period  of a further 
two months to do this.
I considered Miss Ss further  submissions  and her request  for an extension  to respond to my 
provisional decision. Given what shes said, I explained that I wouldnt be extending  time for 
her to provide further submissions because I didnt  think theyd make a difference  to my 
provisional decision. I explained  that was because my findings were based  on DAS reliance 
on the panel firms  advice, which I thought was reasonable  in the circumstances. So, I didnt 
think the question  of who instructed the barrister  would  change my view. I know  Miss S 
remains unhappy with this, but Ive made  clear  that its fair that I now proceed  to decision and 
that both parties  have  had enough time to put their points to me.
my findings
In my provisional decision I explained  that this was a complaint we could  consider  inside  our 
scheme rules. As DAS has accepted my decision, I wont  be commenting any further  on that.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
Miss Ss complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Im grateful  to Miss S for clarifying that the barrister and solicitor she used were initially the 
ones instructed by DAS.  From what shes said, it appears that after funding was withdrawn, 
Miss S continued with the instruction of the panel  firm and the barrister, at her own cost. Im 
sorry if I misunderstood that, but as Ive said, I dont think that makes a difference  to the 
outcome of my decision. Thats because DAS were  entitled to rely on the advice of the panel  
firm on the question of what a reasonable offer was. The fact that the barrister later said 
Miss Ms claim had reasonable prospects of success  makes  no difference because it was a 
requirement of the policy that Miss S had to accept  a reasonable offer. If she wasnt  
prepared to  which she was at liberty to do, and indeed  did- then DAS werent obliged to 
continue funding her claim.
I know that Miss S feels this is unfair,  but I dont agree.  Whilst she took the decision  to 
proceed with the litigation  at her own cost and risk, thats not something wed expect an 
insurer who is funding that litigation to do, if theyve  been advised  by legal professionals that 
a reasonable offer to settle has been made.
Ref: DRN40193794As I said in my provisional decision,  Ive not seen anything to suggest that Miss S was in 
receipt of or provided DAS with a barristers view setting out that the offer was unreasonable 
when they chose to turn down cover, or later. So, I dont think DAS did anything  wrong.
Finally, I know  Miss S is unhappy with the actions of the panel firm and that of the barrister.  
Thats not something I can consider. Solicitors and barristers are independent professionals.  
They have their own regulator and codes of conduct. If Miss S remains unhappy, she can 
refer her complaint  about this to the panel firm and the barrister directly  or contact the Legal  
Ombudsman.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold Miss Ss 
complaint against  DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2020
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4019379