K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains Clydesdale Bank Plc has given  him a contactless debit card when he 
specifically asked not to have this feature. 
background
Mr C opened a business account  with Clydesdale in May 2018. He was sent a debit card 
without the ability to make contactless payments. Mr C says when he opened  the account he 
specifically said he didnt  want  the contactless  feature,  and was told he wouldnt have it.
At the end of May,  Clydesdale made some changes  to its business account cards. One of 
these was that the contactless payment feature would be added to all of its cards.  There was 
no option to not have  this facility. Mr C was sent a new card with the contactless facility in 
November 2018.
Mr C complained to Clydesdale. He said he was told when he opened the account  that it 
wouldnt have a contactless facility. He has serious  concerns about the safety  of his money 
and believes  this feature puts him at risk.
Clydesdale explained  it was now only offering cards with contactless  ability.  It said when 
Mr C opened the account he was able to choose not to have this facility,  so the information 
he was given at this time was correct. But it had recently taken  the decision to only offer 
contactless cards.
Unhappy with this response,  Mr C referred the complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into it. He understood Mr Cs concerns, but thought  the decision to only 
offer contactless cards  was one Clydesdale was entitled to make.  So he didnt think the 
complaint should  be upheld.
Mr C didnt agree. He maintained he was misled when he took the account, and now had to 
switch to a new bank. He said he was offered 26 months of free banking  with Clydesdale  
and now had to pay £11 per month with the new bank.  He said he had to pay £20 to write to 
his customers to tell them  of his new account  details.  He asked Clydesdale  to pay for the 
new banks monthly  fee during what wouldve been his free period with Clydesdale  and the 
cost of writing to his customers  to be refunded.  
Mr C asked for the complaint to be reviewed by and ombudsman, so its been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C says he was told he had the option of have a card without the contactless  feature when 
he first took it. This was correct at the time, and his original card couldnt be used for 
contactless payments.  It wasnt announced by Clydesdale until after Mr C took his account 
that it would  be removing all non-contactless cards. So I think  the information  Mr C was 
given when he took the account was correct.
Ref: DRN41122442The decision  to add to contactless feature to all of its cards  is a business one Clydesdale  is 
entitled to make. I dont think Clydesdale gave him assurances that it wouldnt add this 
feature at a later date. It wouldve been  ideal  had Clydesdale told Mr C that the option to 
have a non-contactless card may change over time. But the same is true of any bank. So I 
dont think had it told Mr C this, he wouldnt have  opened the account. No bank can 
guarantee it wont add new features at a later stage.
I understand Mr Cs concerns about security and his dissatisfaction  that he now has to 
change providers and pay the new provider. But had he been told that he wouldnt have the 
option to have a non-contactless card in the future,  he still wouldve needed to find another 
provider who offered this, and likely  pay a fee as he has to now.
my final decision
I know Mr C feels  strongly  about  this, but my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4112244