K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains on behalf of Ms H, a friend, of irresponsible  lending  by Black Horse  Limited  
(trading as Landrover  Financial Services (LRFS)) leading to negative information on Ms Hs 
credit file. Ms H would like the negative  data removed. And compensation to cover legal fees 
and the stress and strain she has been  put under.
background
Mr H has explained that Ms H (NB. Mr H is not Ms Hs husband,  as referred  to in this 
decision) took out a Hire Purchase Agreement for a car through LRFS in November 2014. 
The car was for her husband,  but for various reasons Ms H took out the finance in her own 
name. Mr H says Ms Hs husband  made the repayments but stopped  doing  so when they 
split up in 2015.
He says that Ms H already had two other  loans  and mortgage repayments  to make. Those,  
combined with this new Hire Purchase  Agreement, meant Ms H had monthly  repayments  of 
around £3,000.  But she only worked part-time, and earned between £600-700 per month.
Mr H says that Ms H was unaware that her ex-husband failed to make  some payments. She 
later understood the account  had been  in arrears,  but this had been resolved when he 
traded-in the car. 
Ms H was really surprised to find out in May 2016, when she was looking into getting a 
mortgage that she had a poor credit rating due to the agreement  with LRFS  being in default.  
He says at this stage  Ms H contacted  a solicitor to try to resolve matters, and started to incur 
legal fees. LRFS sent its first final response  letter (FRL) to Ms Hs solicitor, dated 23 
February 2017.
Ms H then dispensed with her lawyers services and contacted  LRFS  direct.  She got a 
second final response letter (FRL), dated  17 April 2017. Ms H didnt find this response 
satisfactory, but as by this time her credit  rating  had gone from poor to excellent, and the 
default had been removed, she didnt  take her complaint any further at that time.
Unfortunately, in December 2017 Ms H got a text alert telling her credit file had altered. 
When she looked into this she realised the default  was back  on her file and her credit rating 
had reverted to poor
So Ms H complained again  to LRFS in January 2018, receiving a third FRL, dated  9 March 
2018.
Mr H said that although  LRFS had given, and Ms H accepted, £150 compensation for its 
failure to respond  to some of her correspondence, she didnt feel this compensated her for 
stress and inconvenience shed suffered. 
Mr H said that Ms H was unable to get credit due to her poor credit  rating  and so couldnt  get 
a mortgage. 
He also noted  that LRFS  had been  evasive over the return of the car; there were lengthy 
delays in correspondence; and he wasnt convinced LRFS had sent some of the arrears  
letters it claimed to have.
Ref: DRN40039082LRFS refused to give permission for us to look at the issues  addressed in its FRLs of 2017, 
as Ms H was out of time to raise those complaints with us, under our jurisdiction rules. But it 
did agree  that Ms H was in time to put in a complaint about the issues it responded  to in its 
FRL of March 2018.
Our investigator issued  a jurisdiction view, agreeing with LRFS that Ms H was out of time to 
raise issues  that had been  addressed  in the 2017  FRLs.
She then considered the issues raised and dealt with in the FRL of March 2018.  But as 
some of these, specifically around irresponsible lending,  had also been  addressed  by 
LFRS in its FRLs of 2017, she made  it clear that she couldnt  reconsider these as she had 
already found  Ms H out of time.  
In terms of the other issues  Ms H raised, our investigator didnt find that LRFS had done 
anything wrong. She felt it was likely it hadnt received a letter that Ms H said she never  had 
a response to; that its choice of words over the car being abandoned  could have been  
better; that LRFS was within its rights  to take the car back; that voluntary termination (VT) 
wasnt an option due to arrears and the fact insufficient money had been paid to allow this; 
that LRFS had explained the differences between statement  and default  notice  sums;  that 
LRFS wasnt responsible for the state that the Data Subject Access  Request (DSAR) 
material had been  delivered in; that it had organised the DSAR  without charge so Ms H 
could see the information it held; and that it had removed the default  in error, but in her view 
it was right for it to be reinstated as it was important that credit files accurately reflect the 
conduct of accounts.
She also explained the term write off, and finally noted that Ms Hs real concern was that 
the finance should never have been provided  to her in the first place. But she explained that 
part of Ms Hs complaint  was out of our jurisdiction to consider on the basis of time, because  
it was referred too late.
LRFS accepted this view but Ms H didnt.
On Ms Hs behalf, Mr H said that he had made  it clear in March 2019  that there was no point 
in considering all of the issues in Ms Hs complaint if the loan application  figures were  not to 
be looked at as well. And that Ms H couldnt have complained in 2017 as she wasnt  in a 
position to do so  as she wasnt  in possession of all the facts.  He said as LRFS had given 
further information he felt that it shouldnt then be able to rely on a previous FRL to avoid the 
issue of irresponsible  lending  being looked  at again.
In relation to the specific issues raised  in 2018, and to our investigators view, Mr H 
responded to say a letter  LRFS was unable to find had actually  been  signed for, and the fact 
it took numerous attempts for Ms Hs solicitor to get responses to correspondence showed,  
he felt, that LRFS lacked  organisation. 
Mr H didnt feel that LRFS  organising  the DSAR was a positive thing, as he had made it 
clear they would be seeking this anyway. Also, that LRFS didnt give any information as to 
how to get the DSAR  - it referred Ms H to the garage and the garage back to LRFS. 
He said he found  a comment our investigator made  that Ms H didnt object to her ex-
husband making payments towards  the car objectionable,  as the agreement had been set up 
with the ex-husbands bank details for a car he had sole use of. He said Ms H was unable  to 
Ref: DRN40039083keep the car under  her control, as per her Hire Purchase Agreement, as her ex-husband 
had sole use of it, and her legal positon  was such that she had minimal contact with him. 
He wasnt convinced that default  and arrears letters had been sent, and found the 
discrepancies as to what had happened to the car remarkable in that it was in the garage 
from Sept 2015 to March  2016, but the garage  said it hadnt had the car back  since it had 
been sold. 
He drew comparisons to the false income and expenditure details used to get finance for the 
agreement, and felt there  was possibly something untoward going  on between  the garage 
and the ex-husband. He felt the investigator  simply took LRFS at its word when it explained 
the difference between the amounts on the balance and default notice.
Finally, Mr H said that if Ms H had complained in 2017 that our investigation wouldnt have 
uncovered information that has since come to light. And without  that we couldnt have made  
a fair judgement. He said the 2017 complaint was that the loan was unaffordable.  The 2018 
complaint was that the loan had been granted on the basis  of fictitious  financial information - 
which was a different  matter.
Our investigator considered all of these points, but didnt change her view. She apologised 
for the time it had taken  to deal with Ms Hs case. She confirmed that she had concluded the 
2017 complaints  were  out of time to consider, but had said in an email  dated 6 March  2019 
that she would consider  the 2018 part. She pointed out Mr H could, at that time, have said 
he didnt want her to do this, but he didnt.
In response to Mr Hs comments to her view,  she made the following points. The fact that 
LRFS continued  to respond  to Ms Hs queries, out of courtesy, didnt alter the fact the FRLs 
clearly stated there was a six-month time limit to bring a complaint to us. The many letters 
Ms H said her solicitor sent,  and werent  responded to, in 2017 were  part of the complaint 
that was out of time to consider. So our investigator couldnt comment  on these, and also 
couldnt comment on the finance  agreement  being based on false financial information  - 
since that related  to unaffordable lending, which had also been  addressed  in 2017.
Ms H didnt accept this view. So the matters come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate Ms H and her representative, Mr H, feel really strongly about these issues. 
And looking in general terms  at the total of Ms Hs complaint,  I dont doubt  the stress she 
has been put under by the financial  agreement and the repercussions from it.
I do also appreciate, and Mr H has articulated very clearly, that he doesnt feel the less 
consequential issues in the 2018 complaint  can be dealt with in isolation. And that the whole 
basis for the complaint is irresponsible lending on the part of LRFS, and that all the matters  
should be looked at together.
When Ms H first put in her complaint to our service,  LRFS objected to the issues addressed 
in 2017 being looked into as Ms H was out of time to complain to us. This was because she 
came to us more than six months after the dates  of the FRLs. Our investigator correctly 
Ref: DRN40039084considered this issue of jurisdiction first. She found  that Ms H was out of time to bring that 
part of her complaint  to us. She wrote and gave this view in a letter date 1 March 2019;  
giving Ms H until 8 March to accept  or not accept her view.  And she made it clear in this 
letter that if Ms H didnt agree with her view there was an option  for the issue  to be looked at 
by an ombudsman for a final decision.
Neither Ms H, nor Mr H on her behalf,  asked for an ombudsmans review. Mr H responded to 
say he wasnt, in his words, looking to have matters  referred to in the 2017  correspondence 
looked at, its clear that it is fruitless pursuing that. But he did say he wanted  an assurance 
that new issues debated in 2018 with LRFS would be considered which  would include the 
disputed application  income and expenditure figures  for the loan agreement.
In her response, our investigator  made  it clear  that the issue of unaffordable lending  had 
been covered  in 2017. She also noted  that Mr H had tried to raise  a new complaint with 
LRFS in May 2018, but said it was too late to do that now. And she made it clear she would 
not be considering  any matters  relating  to irresponsible lending, but she would consider the 
March 2018 complaint and respond to that in due course.
Mr H responded again, saying  his new complaint  was about incorrect figures being used for 
a credit application, and questioned if our service  would walk away from a serious matter by 
classing this new information as part of other elements of the complaint that cant be 
considered as they are out of time.
In response to this email,  our investigator said she would look at the matters she could 
consider and respond in due course, which she then did in her subsequent view on the 
issues arising from the 2018 complaint  - but not including anything that referred back  to the 
2017 complaint,  which  was out of time.
I have considered all of this correspondence  very carefully. Its clear to me that Mr H, on Ms 
Hs behalf, wasnt happy with the jurisdiction view. But if he didnt agree with that he should 
have asked for an ombudsmans view at the time.  He didnt. 
Its also clear  to me that the issues Mr H wants us to revisit all form part of the complaint 
about irresponsible lending, which was dealt with in 2017, and which  our investigator 
decided were out of time to consider, with no exceptional circumstances to allow us to do so. 
I dont agree with Mr Hs point that had Ms H complained in time that information that is now 
available wouldnt have been available then. It would have been our role to find out all the 
information we needed.
So, unfortunately, I have concluded that the decision on jurisdiction has already been made, 
and accepted, and its not for me to revisit this here.
Our investigator noted in her view those issues that had been raised in 2018 that she 
couldnt consider,  as they related to irresponsible lending covered in the, 2017 complaint. 
And I agree with her assessment of what she could, and couldnt, respond to. So Im not 
going to go back  over those points again here.
This decision, therefore, will only focus on those  relevant  issues that I can consider that  Ms 
H raised in 2018.  
The outstanding issues that Mr H raised  with our investigator after her view seem  to be;- the 
letter LRFS  misplaced; the provision of the DSAR; comments  from the debt recovery  
Ref: DRN40039085company; the statement  the car had been abandoned; the provision or otherwise of default 
notice and arrears letters;  and the differing amounts on the statements and default notices. 
And Ive looked  at these carefully.
I cant be sure what happened to the letter  that Ms H sent to LRFS  by recorded delivery. Its 
unfortunate, but sometimes correspondence  can go missing or get overlooked.  As other  
correspondence has been responded to, I think its likely this was just a genuine  mistake  on 
someones part. I accept  that this must  have been frustrating, but dont see that this in itself 
confirms Mr Hs view of LRFSs general lack of organisation.
With regard to the provision of the DSAR information. I accept  Mr H says that he and Ms H 
always intended to get this themselves. I have  seen the letter Mr H referred  to where  they 
were referred on to the garage to get the DSAR, so I can also appreciate their frustration 
over this.
With reference to the comments our investigator  made about Ms Hs experience with the 
debt recovery firm, I agree its difficult to comment on anything that was said at the time as 
theres no record we can refer to. 
I dont believe that the investigators  comment about  Ms H not objecting to her ex-husband 
making payments  towards her agreement  was intended to be insensitive or offensive,  and 
Im sorry  if Ms H and Mr H found  it so. I felt the comment  was superfluous,  and didnt need to 
be made, so its unfortunate that it was. 
In terms of the car being described as abandoned, our investigator said LRFSs  choice of 
words could have  been  better since it wasnt abandoned, but was taken to a dealership. Her 
comment that under the terms of her agreement,  Ms H was supposed  to keep control  of the 
car is accurate. But I do appreciate that given the personal circumstances Mr H has outlined, 
this would have  been difficult for Ms H given, legally,  she was supposed  to have minimum 
contact with her ex-husband. 
Mr H feels there has been some sort of cover up over the whereabouts of the car. He says 
it was in the garage from September 2015  to March  2016, but LRFS  says it only became 
aware of this when  Ms Hs ex-husband wrote to let it know  in March 2016.  But Mr H says the 
garage stated it had never had the car back in its possession since  its sale.  Im not sure this 
constitutes grounds for some sort of cover up. It feels to me more  like a lack of 
communication between  the parties  involved.
I appreciate Mr H is sceptical as to whether any default or arrears letters were sent. We have 
been given copies of some of these. Theyre correctly addressed,  and Ive no reason to 
believe they werent sent. These letters arent required to be sent by recorded or other  
means of delivery.  I dont  feel that just because  one letter Ms H sent by recorded delivery 
seems to have gone missing is grounds  to say other  letters  werent sent.
Looking at all of these  issues,  I do think some of the administration  and communication by 
LRFS could have  been better. I think LRFS  has acknowledged this by already paying 
compensation for its level of service, and that is an appropriate gesture to have made.  I dont 
think it should pay any more.
I do appreciate that Ms H has found  the whole situation very stressful,  and that she would 
also like the adverse information taken  off her credit  file. But it feels  to me that the significant 
source of her stress  is the finance  and agreement. And the subsequent impact on her credit 
Ref: DRN40039086file. Unfortunately, for the reasons already explained, these are not issues  I can take a view 
on, as they were referred too late and are out of jurisdiction. 
And theres  nothing in the issues Ive been able to consider  that makes me feel it would be 
reasonable to ask LRFS to pay any additional  compensation, or to alter any information on 
Ms Hs credit  file.
I appreciate this will be disappointing to Ms H, but I hope Ive clearly explained why Ive 
reached this decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.  
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4003908