K821x#15complaint
Mr T says MYJAR Limited  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2019,  where  I set out a detailed 
background to this complaint and why I was inclined to uphold Mr Ts complaint in part. Ive 
included extracts from my provisional decision at the end of this decision.
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond  to my provisional findings before making a 
final decision. Both parties have now responded  Mr T and MYJAR have accepted my 
provisional findings. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party disagrees with my provisional  findings, I see no reason to depart from it. 
MYJAR gave Mr T some loans when it shouldnt have lent to him and it needs to put things 
right.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr T paid on loans  6 to 18,
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*,
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 to 18 should be removed from 
Mr Ts credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ts complaint in part and require MYJAR Limited to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41977132Extracts  from provisional decision
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about  short-
term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  - on our 
website.
The Financial Conduct  Authority was the regulator at the time of Mr Ts loans  and it set out rules 
and guidance for lenders  such as MYJAR in its specialist  sourcebook  Consumer  Credit  
Sourcebook (CONC).
I am not quoting  all the specific regulations here, because I would expect  MYJAR to be familiar  
with these  through previous  ombudsman decisions, particularly recent decisions, which  set 
these rules out in more  detail.
The rules arent  prescriptive  about what checks the lender needed  to carry  out but, its checks  
needed to be customer-focussed on the ability  of the consumer to sustainably  repay  the loans.
So MYJAR  needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T could repay  the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include:
 the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  
a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become,  or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important  for me to start by saying that MYJAR  was required to establish  whether  
Mr T could sustainably repay his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis 
might be an indication a consumer could sustainably  make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.
This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without undue difficulties and in particular 
the customer  should  be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other reasonable  
commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows  that 
MYJAR should have considered Mr Ts pattern  of borrowing and not just the affordability  of the 
loans on a pounds and pence calculation.  MYJAR  should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably  to 
realise, that Mr T wasnt repaying his loans  sustainably  if he had to borrow further.
Ref: DRN41977133Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
MYJAR has told this service it carried out detailed checks before agreeing to lend to Mr T. It says it 
asked Mr T about his employment status,  income and expenses. It also said it searched his credit file 
and ran the information through its internal systems. And based on its checks it didnt think  it lent 
most of the loans irresponsibly. It acknowledged that it shouldnt have  given Mr T loan 10 and has 
offered to pay redress on that loan.
Looking at MYJARs lending to Mr T, I think the checks for the first three  loans went  far enough  and I 
dont think MYJAR was wrong to lend Mr T those loans. However from loan 4 onwards,  I think that 
MYJAR should have been looking to build a clear picture of Mr Ts finances before agreeing to lend.  
Loan 4 was Mr Ts fourth loan and for a larger  amount  than any of his previous loan. I think  it would 
have been proportionate for MYJAR to take its checks  further. As Mr T hasnt provided  information 
about his actual circumstances at the time such as bank statements, I cant  say that a detailed  check  
by MYJAR would have
shown that he couldnt  afford  the loans  and that it lent loans 4 and 5 irresponsibly.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of MYJARs  lending  history with Mr T, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point at which  MYJAR should reasonably have seen that further
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ts case, I think that this point was reached by loan 6. I 
say this because by loan 6 Mr T had established  pattern  of borrowing  quickly after repaying a loan 
and hed been  borrowing consistently for around 16 months without any noticeable breaks in 
lending.
From loan 6 onwards Mr T continued to be provided  with a new loan within days of settling a 
previous one. So MYJAR  ought to have  realised  it was more likely  than not Mr Ts indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably and hed become  reliant on these loans. I can also see that Mr T repaid 
most of his loans early but that doesnt mean he did so
sustainably. I think the fact that Mr T was paying loans early in the way that he did was likely a 
further sign that he was struggling  to manage his repayments sustainably.  Also I can see that after 
repaying a loan early, Mr T then borrowed again quickly  and sometimes a larger  amount than the 
previous loan.
From what I can see, Mr T wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed MYJAR
and so couldnt  free himself from dependence on these loans. Loan  18 was taken  out around 24 
months after Mr Ts first, and it was for ten times the amount of loan 1. Mr T had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to MYJAR over an extended period.  This isnt the purpose of these 
loans and MYJAR as a responsible lender shouldnt  have continued lending  in the circumstances.
I think that Mr T lost out because  MYJAR continued  to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards and:
 these  loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ts indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit  intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
 the sheer number of loans was likely  to have had negative implications on Mr Ts ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these  high-cost loans.
So Im upholding the complaint about loan 6 onwards  and MYJAR should  put things right.
End of extract.
Ref: DRN4197713