K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard) wont refund  the cost 
of a faulty vehicle he purchased.
background
Mr M bought  a vehicle  using his credit card. The vehicle developed a number of faults  within 
the first six months. Mr M wanted to reject  the vehicle. But the merchant  refused to refund 
the purchase cost.  So he wants Barclaycard to repay the full amount under the Consumer 
Credit Act.
Barclaycard looked  into the dispute but it said Mr M didnt have a valid claim. So it couldnt 
assist him. The vehicle had been purchased  in the name of Mr Ms partner. So there was no 
direct relationship between the debtor, creditor and supplier. 
Barclaycard apologised for not responding in a timely manner and paid Mr M £25 for its poor 
service. And as a gesture  of goodwill  itd credit Mr Ms account  with £72.47 to cover the cost 
of a faulty part. But it wasnt able to bring a claim under  Section  75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974.
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with Barclaycards response. So he contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She looked at the circumstances around Mr Ms claim. 
And she didnt think there was a debtor-credit-supplier relationship in this case.  There  was a 
fourth party to the transaction. And the legislation makes it clear there can only be debtor, 
creditor and supplier. So she felt Barclaycard had acted correctly.
Mr M didnt  agree. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. He had purchased  the 
vehicle for his partners  use with the option for her to purchase it from him. But she hadnt 
done so because itd developed a number of faults. The d-c-s chain hadnt  been broken.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator.
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties Mr M and his partner have experienced with the 
vehicle they purchased. And I can understand Mr Ms frustration. Hed bought goods using 
his credit card. And therefore the provider (Barclaycard) shouldve been equally liable when 
something went wrong. So Ive looked  carefully  at everything Mr M and Barclaycard have 
said. 
As our investigator has explained there are specific conditions that must be met for a claim 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  And one of those conditions  relates  to 
what is known as the debtorcreditor-supplier link. In this case Mr M was the debtor, 
Barclays was the creditor and the vehicle  dealer  was the supplier. Technically there must be 
a direct link between the three parties.  And if that relationship  is broken  by the involvement 
of another party then unfortunately Section  75 wont apply.
Ref: DRN47509122In this case Mr M says he purchased the vehicle using his credit card. He says he is still the 
owner of the vehicle.  And although there  was an option for his partner  to buy it from him, she 
never did. So the link hasnt been broken. 
Although the vehicle  was financed by Mr M it was purchased for his partners use. Mr M said 
he never intended to use it. He had his own vehicle. The invoice and warranty  for the vehicle 
purchase are in his partners name.  And the vehicle  registration  certificate  is in his partners 
name. So I think his partner is the contracting party  with the supplier - not Mr M. 
I realise Mr M says this was done  so the vehicle could be insured in his partners name  
without any difficulties. But whether or not his partner intended to pay him back I think  there 
is an additional party in the transaction. And the d-c-s link has been broken. 
Barclaycard has offered  Mr M £25 compensation for the delay in responding to his 
complaint. And its paid £72.47 as a gesture of goodwill towards  the cost of repairing a faulty 
part. But the Section 75 legislation makes  it clear there can only be debtor, creditor  and 
supplier. And I dont  think the conditions to make a successful claim under Section 75 are in 
place. 
I realise Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome. But, taking into account  everything 
thats happened, I cant say Barclaycard has done anything wrong by not taking the claim 
forward. And I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4750912