K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his accounts without providing sufficient 
notice.  And  he hasnt been given a reason. Hed like compensation for this and the overall 
service hes received. 
background
Mr E had three accounts with Barclays. On the 11 June 2018 Barclays  closed all of Mr Es 
accounts. 
Mr E complained to Barclays  and said he was unhappy hed not been given a reason for why 
the accounts had been closed or received  notification. 
Barclays said they sent a letter to Mr E on the 11 June 2018  notifying him that his accounts 
would be closing on the same day.  And  they could confirm his accounts hadnt been closed 
because of his overpayment for his ISA. But they wouldnt  be giving Mr E any further  detail 
as to why they closed  his accounts  or changing  their decision. 
Mr E wasnt  happy with Barclays response  so complained to our service.  And he also 
highlighted the poor communication hed received  when they closed his accounts. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Es complaint  and asked  Barclays for further 
information on why they closed Mr Es accounts immediately. As Barclays didnt provide this 
our investigator said that he was satisfied Barclays had notified Mr E that his accounts would 
be closed but he couldnt agree immediate closure  was fair. And he said they should pay 
Mr E £100  compensation. 
Barclays didnt agree with this view  and provided further information. On reviewing the new 
information our investigator came  to a different conclusion. He said Barclays  had followed 
the terms and conditions of Mr Es accounts  and it was fair for them to immediate close 
them. And they didnt need to do anymore. 
Mr E didnt accept our investigators view and said it was impossible for Barclays to provide 
information to show hed been  in breach  of the terms and conditions of his accounts. He said 
Barclays had given  him misleading advice, incorrect information and didnt provide him with 
any notice of the account closures. Mr E explained he thought  £250 compensation was fair 
for the amount of time and effort the spent on the complaint. 
As Mr E didnt agree  its been referred to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons. Ill explain why below.  
account closures
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But, before a bank closes  an account it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Ref: DRN49468002Section 11 of the terms and conditions of Mr Es accounts state that there are certain 
circumstances where  they can immediately close a customers account. The terms and 
conditions state:
we may end this agreement immediately or on less notice (and stop providing  services and 
close your account) if we reasonably believe you have seriously broken any terms of the 
agreement or we have  reasonable grounds for thinking  you have done any of the following 
things, which  you must  not do. 
Im not going  to go into the things specifically  identified in the terms and conditions,  as both 
Barclays and Mr E are aware  of the conditions listed.  When looking at these terms Ive 
reviewed the evidence that Barclays  provided,  and Im aware that Mr Es explained hes 
confident he didnt break any of the terms of the agreement, but from the evidence Ive seen 
Im satisfied that Barclays acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Es accounts  
when they closed them without notice.
I realise this will be disappointing  to Mr E and I understand  that the closure of Mr Es 
accounts caused him inconvenience. But the bank  can make commercial decisions about  
who it offers  banking services to. They cant unfairly discriminate against a customer. But, 
they can decide they no longer wish to do business with individuals. Thats because they 
have the commercial freedom to decide  whod they like to contract  with. And Im satisfied 
that in Mr Es case Barclays exercised its commercial freedom legitimately when it decided 
to close his accounts. So I cant fairly  and reasonably say Barclays  have done anything  
wrong here.  
service issues
Mr Es unhappy with Barclays communication when his accounts were  closed. Ive seen a 
copy of a letter Barclays sent Mr E on the 11 June 2018 informing that his accounts were 
closing. I understand  Mr E advises he didnt receive  this  but I cant  hold Barclays  
responsible for whether this was received or not. And Im satisfied Barclays communicated 
their decision  in a timely and satisfactory way to Mr E. 
In summary,  whilst I acknowledge  the frustration  that Mr E clearly feels with his account  
closures I dont think Barclays failed to follow its own procedures. So I wont be asking 
Barclays to do anything  more here.  
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4946800