K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that CMC Chesterfield  Limited  mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a loan to buy a motorbike.
background
I have attached my provisional decision from February 2019,  which  forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out why I wasnt  thinking of upholding Mr Hs 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Mr H made  some  additional comments which I will address 
below.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has said that he doesnt understand why, when he first complained  to the business,  a 
member of staff at CMC Chesterfield emailed him agreeing to pay back  the policy premiums.
As part of my original  consideration of the complaint, I had seen the email  sent by CMC 
Chesterfield to Mr H on 30 January  2018.  The author of the email  says:
I propose to ask, in the light of the previous  claim  being accepted, if the £198.60 is refunded 
to you in full and final settlement (subject to your approval)  bringing this claim to a close 
without the need to investigate why you signed for ppi when  you say you did not know you 
were having  it. Although  I can ask for this request it does  not mean it would be accepted 
however this may be a way to finally resolve  your claim quickly.
It seems  clear  to me that a) there  had been no proper investigation of the complaint at that 
point and b) the member of staff that wrote the email was not authorised to make a decision 
about providing a refund  and he was only saying that he would ask about it. Contrary  to what  
Mr H has said,  I dont consider that this email constitutes an offer to refund the premiums. 
Mr H has also said that his wife was working and, as they had cover for their mortgage,  there  
was no need for the PPI policy on his motorcycle loan. But if Mr H had been  unable to work  
then his wifes income would have had to cover all of the remaining household outgoings. So 
I think the policy could  have provided a useful benefit at what  would have been a difficult  
time. Besides, other people cant always be relied  upon as their circumstances  can change.
Ive thought about the additional comments Mr H has made, but they havent caused me to 
change my mind. Therefore I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my 
provisional decision.
It follows that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Hs complaint.
Ref: DRN47355772Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN47355773COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr H has complained that CMC Chesterfield  Limited mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy when he took out a loan to buy a motorbike.
background
Mr H arranged  the loan and took out the PPI in 2005 during a meeting at the dealership.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. CMC Chesterfield disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and 
so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about  the sale of 
PPI on our website  and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive currently decided  not to uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr H says he didnt realise that PPI had been added to the loan, so he feels it was added without his 
knowledge or consent. Ive looked at the credit agreement that was signed  by Mr H on 19 February 
2005. There is a section headed PAYMENT PROTECTION PLAN which includes the following  
wording:
This recommended  insurance is optional. The word  entered  bellowed marked with an arrowhead 
indicates the Type of Payment Protection Plan you have selected or that you do not require 
cover...Type required (if none required, enter NONE.
The adjacent box has the word  GOLD  typed in it as the level of cover that has been selected. It 
seems to me that there was probably some discussion about the PPI that resulted  in that particular 
level of cover being chosen. The layout and wording of the form suggests that the optional nature  of 
the policy  would have been made clear.
The sale happened a long time ago and it would  not be surprising if Mr Hs recollection of events  has 
faded. Ive thought about  what  Mr H has said, but based on the available evidence,  I think it is more  
likely that Mr H decided to buy the policy, knowing that he didnt  have to, even if he no longer 
remembers doing  so.
CMC Chesterfield advised  Mr H to take out the PPI. Therefore, in recommending the policy  to him, it 
needed to ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Hs circumstances at the time, I 
think the policy was suitable.
Mr H has told us that he would have received at least three  months sick pay from his job. But the 
policy would have paid out in addition  to this and potentially for longer than he would have received 
full pay for. And Mr H hasnt  mentioned  any other means, such  as savings, that he could  fall back on. 
Hes said he had a Payment Shield policy  but that is insurance that covers mortgage repayments,  
so would  not have covered  his loan repayments.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis that Mr H had a pre-existing medical condition and 
pre-existing conditions arent covered by the policy. This is where my view differs. Mr H has a medical  
condition that was diagnosed in the early 1990s. But Mr H has explained that, although its a lifelong 
condition that causes him difficulties, it hasnt resulted in him having any long term absences  from 
work. By the time of the sale in 2005, Mr H would  have  been well aware of how his condition affected 
him.
Ref: DRN47355774The policy provided  cover  if someone was unable to work for a period of 30 days  or more. So it 
seems unlikely  that Mr H would have ever needed to make a claim as a result of his condition.  So I 
dont think his condition  made  the policy  unsuitable. Overall I think that Mr H had a need for the policy 
and could have benefitted  from it.
CMC Chesterfield also needed to provide  enough information about the policy for Mr H to make an 
informed decision about whether or not the PPI was right for him. I can see that the credit agreement 
shows the cost of the policy,  including  the cost of the premium, the interest amount and then the total 
cost. So I think Mr H would have known  what he was paying for the PPI.
I dont know what was discussed  at the meeting, so its possible that CMC  Chesterfield didnt provide 
as much information as it should have about the policy, particularly about the things it didnt cover. 
But,for the reasons Ive explained, Mr H wasnt affected by any of these things. As I think he had an 
interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused him 
to change his mind.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Hs complaint and do not require  C M C Chesterfield 
Limited to pay compensation.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4735577