K821x#15complaint
Mrs C acquired  goods  from DSG  Retail Limited  in April 2018, by means  of a credit 
agreement with a financial services provider. She complains that this agreement  was 
cancelled in error. She also complains about  DSGs poor customer service in dealing  with 
this matter.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 25 July 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision, I explained that I agreed  with our adjudicators view that 
the complaint  should be upheld. But I disagreed with one of our investigators settlement 
recommendations.
Mrs C responded to disagree with my recommended settlement, because it did not include 
any redress for the distress and inconvenience  she had experienced, caused by her 
dealings with DSG. She said:
She had told DSG in October 2018  she believed that personal  information  about her, 
held by it, had been stolen
She was contacted at that time by somebody  purporting to represent  DSG, who 
wanted her to make a payment  into an identified building society account, in order to 
settle her outstanding  debt
She was advised  by a family  member  not to make this payment, but to report the 
contact to DSG and the relevant building society,  which  she did 
She had not suffered any financial loss from this incident, and she had experienced 
no further incidents of this nature  since October  2018
DSG responded saying:
It accepted my provisional  decision
It had investigated  Mrs Cs concerns about  her personal information which it held
The investigation found that it had received  no reports  from other customers  of 
similar incidents, and concluded  the likely cause of Mrs Cs incident was that her 
personal email account had been compromised
Mrs C was advised to contact her e-mail service provider
Mrs C told us she accepted that this kind of incident can happen with interception  outside 
DSGs IT systems.  But she felt that, had the business made no initial error, she would not 
have been caused such immense distress.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
I sympathise with Mrs C, but I have  seen no new evidence to cause me to change my 
previous findings  and settlement recommendations. 
Ref: DRN46890032I do not seek in any way to ignore the distress and inconvenience caused by the incident 
Mrs C experienced in October  2018. But the question  for me is: which business  made  the 
error? 
My provisional finding was, on balance, that DSG was not responsible  for the cancellation 
error. And Mrs C may well be able to argue that the finance provider caused  her trouble and 
upset by its error. But this will need  to be the subject of a separate  complaint against the 
provider.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and 
final settlement of it, I order DSG Retail Limited to arrange for Mrs C to make her settlement 
payment directly to it, for the amount required  during her cancelled  agreements deferral 
period, rather than by setting up a new agreement with the finance provider.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN46890033COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
25 July 2019
complaint
Mrs C acquired goods from DSG Retail  Limited in April 2018, by means  of a credit  agreement  with a 
financial services provider. She complains that this agreement  was cancelled in error. She also 
complains about DSGs poor customer service in dealing with this matter.
background
Mrs Cs agreement  included a six month buy now pay later provision. If a settlement payment was 
made within this deferral  period, no interest would be charged.  But, if not, she would then be required 
to make 24 monthly repayments (including interest).  
Mrs C was made aware that her agreement had been  cancelled, when she phoned  DSG in late June 
2018 wanting  to make the settlement payment. She complained  to DSG.
DSG sent a final response letter to Mrs C in early September 2018,  16 days  after the eight week 
deadline for doing so. It upheld  her complaint, and offered  her £150 in compensation. It also said that 
her finance  provider  was in contact with her, in order to reactivate  her agreement.
Mrs C referred her complaint  to us, saying  in October 2018  that she was still unable  to clear the full 
balance of her account   DSG had advised that that it was unable  to help her, and she had received 
the same advice from the finance provider.
DSG told us:
Mrs Cs agreement  was cancelled by the finance provider
It normally received  payments though  the finance provider for goods acquired using  a credit 
agreement  so a new agreement  would  be needed
DSG supplied  documentary  evidence  to us, indicating that the cancellation error was made  by the 
finance provider.  
The finance  provider  told us:
It did not cancel Mrs Cs agreement
It would  be able to set up a new agreement for Mrs C  but, in order to do so, she would need 
to visit the DSG  store  where she acquired  the goods
It would  remove from her credit file the search it completed  in April 2018  
The finance  provider  similarly supplied  documentary evidence to us, which it said showed  that DSG  
had made  the cancellation error.
Taking everything into account, our investigator thought it was most likely that the finance provider did 
not receive the agreement. This meant the error  was made by DSG.
Mrs C told us that she was unwilling to visit the store, because all she wanted to do was to make  a 
settlement payment for the goods she had acquired. And she had asked to make this payment well 
within the six months  deferral period. 
Mrs C also told us recently that, in order to put things right,  she now wanted  DSG to write  off her debt.  
Our investigator did not think this was appropriate  she recommended that DSG should:
Arrange for Mrs C to make her payment  directly to it, rather than by setting  up a new 
agreement with the finance provider
Pay Mrs C an additional £200 in compensation  because,  some four months after it issued 
its final response letter  to her, she had not been offered an acceptable resolution
Ref: DRN46890034Mrs C disagreed with our investigators second recommendation  she felt the level of compensation  
proposed was insufficient.
DSG also disagreed  with our investigators  second recommendation. It argued that it should  not be 
required to pay the additional compensation for an error  made by the finance provider.
And so this complaint  was referred for review by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence  is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as 
some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words,  what I 
consider most  likely to have happened in light of the available  evidence and wider  circumstances.
I agree with our investigator  that Mrs C has been inconvenienced over an extended period of time by 
the cancellation in error of her credit  agreement. She also received poor customer service from DSG,  
before she referred  her complaint to us, but for which DSG has paid her compensation.  
It appears that Mrs C wanted to make a settlement payment during  her agreements  deferred interest  
period  and this was how she became aware  that her agreement had been cancelled.  She then 
wanted to make the settlement payment directly to DSG (in effect, benefitting  from the interest  free 
period). 
Our investigator first recommendation is that DSG should arrange to receive this payment directly. I 
agree with this recommendation,  because Mrs C should not be financially  disadvantaged  by a mistake 
made by either  DSG or the finance provider.  
But I disagree  with our investigators second recommendation, which was made on the basis that 
DSG was responsible for the cancellation error. 
DSG and the finance provider disagree about which business was responsible for this error, and both 
have provided documentary evidence in support of their respective arguments.
I have looked carefully at this evidence, and I find DSGs documents  more  compelling. In particular, 
they include copies of emails  from the finance provider, admitting to DSG  that the provider cancelled 
the policy  because  of a system error.
And so, on balance,  I find that DSG was not responsible  for the cancellation error. This means  that I 
have not come to the same conclusion  as our investigator, and that DSG should  not be required to 
pay additional  compensation to Mrs C.  
Mrs C may well be able to argue that the finance  provider  caused her trouble and upset by its error. 
But this will need to be the subject of a separate complaint against the provider.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, but subject to any further  comments  or evidence I receive  from Mrs 
C or DSG Retail Limited by 8 August 2019, my provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
My provisional  settlement  recommendation is that DSG  should arrange  for Mrs C to make her 
settlement payment directly to it, for the amount required during her cancelled agreements deferral 
period, rather  than by setting  up a new agreement with the finance provider.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4689003