K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ds complaint is about the Mortgage Current Account (MCA)  that was attached to her 
mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC.
background
In 2005 Mrs D took out a mortgage  with Barclays  and it came with an MCA. The MCA is a 
current account that runs alongside the mortgage,  and operates  as a secured interest-only 
overdraft. The mortgage was originally taken out in joint names, and it changed to Mrs Ds 
sole name in March 2009 when her husband  died.
The debt that had been built-up on the MCA (around £37,000) was paid off using part of the 
proceeds of a life assurance policy in May 2009. In addition £6,000  was paid off the main 
mortgage account and the rest of the policy proceeds were  put into Mrs Ds bank account.  
No more was paid off the mortgage  at that time because the main mortgage was subject to 
an early repayment charge (ERC) if more than 10% was paid off in a year. So the maximum 
amount was paid off at that time without incurring a charge.
Mrs D subsequently  remarried  and has told us her second husband coerced her into 
withdrawing substantial  sums from the MCA. I wont go into detail about what Mrs D has said 
about that relationship to protect  her privacy, but Ive read and listened to everything shes 
told us.
In July 2009 the first withdrawal was made of £10,000, and by May 2010 (so a year after the 
MCA had been  repaid) the debt was back up to around £35,000.  Mrs D says Barclays  
shouldnt have allowed  her to build up that level of debt without asking her any questions 
because she was such a low earner.  
Mrs D has also questioned whether it was right of Barclays to not tell her to use the 
remaining £20,000 from the life assurance to reduce her mortgage in 2009, rather  than just 
putting it in her bank  account. She feels had she not had money available her second  
husband wouldnt have  been interested in hanging  around.
Mrs D is now divorced  from her second husband  and has sold the house  to repay the debt.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said Barclays  didnt  
have to assess the suitability and affordability  of the MCA limit when Mrs Ds first husband 
died, and it couldnt control Mrs Ds decisions to withdraw the money. She also felt the 
arrangement to only reduce the main  mortgage by 10% in 2009  was reasonable so Mrs D 
didnt incur an ERC.
Mrs D didnt agree and so its been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN47959532Ive a great deal of sympathy for the position  Mrs D is in. Its clear shes  gone  through  some 
very difficult times, and it cant  have  been  easy to mentally revisit those times when bringing 
this complaint. Ive not gone into any detail  about that in this decision  to protect Mrs Ds 
privacy once the decision is published. But Id seek to reassure  her that Ive read and taken 
into account everything shes said. Ive also listened to her recent phone call with our 
adjudicator.
Mrs D has set out her account in detail. I trust she wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive 
condensed her complaint in the way that I have.  Ours is an informal  dispute resolution 
service and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. If I dont  
comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Firstly Ill deal with the issue of how the life assurance payment was split. Barclays  arranged 
for the entire  MCA to be cleared (at around £37,000), but as the main  mortgage was around  
£60,000 there wasnt enough left to fully clear  that as well. In addition the main mortgage  had 
an ERC on it, so if Mrs D paid off more than 10% a year then she would have incurred a 
charge for doing so. It doesnt seem inappropriate for Barclays  to try to help Mrs D avoid that 
charge if it was able to do so, which is what happened here, so just £6,000 was paid off the 
main mortgage. The remaining  £20,000 was put into Mrs Ds bank account.
Barclays had no way of knowing  that having  that £20,000 (and an available  MCA limit) would 
have led to Mrs D getting involved  with  and subsequently  marrying   her second husband 
who she says was financially controlling. In any event nothing in terms of how the policy 
proceeds were split seems a bad idea. Mrs D has said how poorly-paid  she was, so having  a 
financial buffer of £20,000  doesnt seem inappropriate, and avoiding an ERC  would often  be 
seen as good advice. With the MCA paid off Mrs D would only then need  to maintain the 
main mortgage payments,  and could even overpay a further 10% each subsequent year if 
she wanted.
Theres no question that the mortgage and MCA limit were affordable when they were  
agreed, with this as a joint mortgage  at that time with Mrs Ds first husband. Mrs D says that 
affordability should have been  reassessed when her first husband died and the mortgage 
and MCA changed  to being  in her sole name. 
I understand the point Mrs D is making but thats  not how it works. At the time her first 
husband died there was about £37,000 owing  on the MCA. If he hadnt  had life assurance 
that debt would have remained outstanding. By anyones standards, Barclays  telling a 
grieving widow that it was calling in that £37,000  debt because  she couldnt afford it would 
be grossly unfair, and could have  led to her losing her house at that time. So its quite right 
that Barclays - in these  circumstances - doesnt  just remove a lending facility it has already 
agreed.
Once Mrs D had paid off the MCA Barclays  had no way of knowing shed start borrowing the 
money back again within two months, and it was not up to Barclays to stop her doing so. 
Mrs D was an adult with a financial commitment,  she knew  her income and she received 
monthly statements  showing how much  she was withdrawing, the amount owed  and the 
monthly interest due. By its nature this facility is designed to be flexible and Mrs D had used 
the flexibility before with her first husband.
Ref: DRN47959533Im not at all minimising what Mrs D has told us she went through with her second  husband,  
but I can only uphold  a complaint where  a business has done  something wrong. And there 
was simply no regulatory  requirement for Barclays to question  Mrs D about  her withdrawals 
from the agreed facility,  or for it to reassess  the size of the facility after her first husband 
died. Mrs D didnt have  to use the facility. Its not so different  from operating any account 
with an overdraft limit  whether the overdraft  is used  or not is the customers choice. 
Barclays kept Mrs D informed about how much she owed, and thats all it needed to do.
I realise that Mrs D will be disappointed  with this, but I cant see that Barclays  has done 
anything wrong  here.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mrs D to accept or reject  my decision before 3 May 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4795953