K820x#14complaint
Mr M is complaining about  issues hes experienced with a car supplied  by Motability 
Operations Limited (Motability).
background
Motability supplied  Mr M with a car in October  2016 through  a three  year contract  hire 
agreement with Motability. He paid an advance  rental payment of £399.
In February 2017  Mr M contacted Motability to say that a number of warning lights were 
appearing on the cars dashboard. He said hed tried to discuss this with the dealership  who 
initially supplied the car, but they werent responding to him. Motability  arranged  for a 
different dealership to manage  the agreement and Mr M said hed take the car to that 
dealership to review  the matter.
In December 2017 Mr M contacted Motability  again  to say that the tyre pressure warning 
light (TPWL) had been coming on the cars  dashboard  for the last few weeks. He said hed 
taken the car to the dealership who couldnt  find a fault with it. He said that the dealership  
had reset the sensor, but that didnt  clear it. He said that the dealership wanted to keep the 
car, but he said he wasnt able to wait at the dealership due to his disability. Motability 
contacted the dealership who said that it would arrange to collect  and return  the car.
In January 2018 Mr M said he wanted  to cancel  the hire agreement.  Motability said he could, 
but it said that there would a £250 charge  if he wanted to do so. Mr M was unhappy about 
this as he said he was being forced into doing  so because of a mechanical issue with the 
car. He said hed stopped using the car because he was concerned  he would have issues 
with the police if they stopped him.
Motability discussed this matter with the dealership who thought the issue  was likely to be 
due to the cold weather. It said a suitable  remedy would be to increase the tyre pressures 
and fill the tyres with Nitrogen. Motability said it would cover  the cost of doing so and sent 
Mr M a cheque  for £30, which is how much  it was told it would  cost to do the work.  The work 
was done in February 2018.
Mr M contacted Motability in May 2018  again to say that the TPWL had come on again. And 
he said that he wanted to change the car, given the fact this warning  light kept coming  on. 
Motability said that the car needed  to be inspected again and said that Mr M would need to 
arrange with the dealership for this inspection to take place. It said that if the dealership 
found a mechanical  fault, then it said that he could change  the car. And it arranged  for an 
independent inspection to be done.
Mr M maintained that he wanted to hand the car back. So Motability said that, alternatively  
he could hand  the car back,  end the agreement and it would provide a pro-rata  refund of the 
initial advanced payment.
Mr M said that he didnt want to end the agreement because he still needed the car. He said 
hes had to take the car to have  the sensors checked a number of times and the issue is still 
there. He wanted  Motability to refund the full advanced rental payment of £399 he paid, so 
that he could get a new car.
Ref: DRN43378502Mr Ms car then went to the dealership for an inspection and a nail was found in the tyre. The 
dealership repaired  the tyre at no cost to Mr M. Motability said that the TPWL coming on 
wasnt linked  to the previous fault,  so it said that it wasnt willing to refund the full advanced  
rental payment. 
Mr M said that hed initially reported  this fault in January 2017 and hes incurred taxi costs 
when the warning sensor was on. He also said that he had to get a breakdown recovery  
company to assist  him in July 2017. Motability  told Mr M that it was willing  to refund the 
£97.60 in taxi costs  he incurred. It also offered to provide a pro-rata  refund of the advanced 
rental payment from July 2017  £305.36.
Mr M maintained that he should be allowed to reject the car because of the issues with the 
TPWL.  But Motability still thought its offer to allow Mr M to cancel the agreement at no 
charge and provide a pro-rata refund was fair. Mr M wanted Motability to pay the refund 
before he returned  the car, but Motability wasnt willing to do so.
In August  2018,  Mr M said that the TPWL came back on again.  So Mr M asked this service 
to step in. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that there had been a number of 
attempts to fix the issue causing the TPWL to come  on, but they hadnt  been successful.  So  
she thought that Mr M was entitled to reject  the car. So she said that, in addition  to the 
refund of £305.36  of the advanced rental  payment and £97.60  for the taxis,  Motability  
should:
Refund 10% of the lease payment for February 2017;
Refund 10% of the lease payments from November 2017 to January 2018;
Refund 10% of the lease payments from May 2017 to the date that the agreement is 
cancelled; and
Collect the car at no cost to Mr M.
Both Motability and Mr M didnt agree with the investigators findings. Motability said that its 
already agreed  to the pro-rata refund of the advanced rental payment and taxi fares. It said 
the terms of the agreement say that Mr M is only entitled to a refund of his rental payments 
in the event of a breakdown. And is says a breakdown is defined as being when the 
vehicle cannot  be used or safely  driven as a result of a mechanical or electrical failure, loss 
of damage. It said that Mr M was able to use the car, so it wouldnt be considered a 
breakdown. 
Motability also said that Mr M wasnt entitled  to a refund of the advanced  rental payment 
under the agreement. Finally it said that it had made a number of goodwill gesture payments 
to Mr M since he joined  the Motability  scheme in 2007. So it asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
Mr M said that he hasnt been  able to use the car because of the issue with the TPWL. And 
he said the breakdown recovery agent told him the car wasnt driveable.  So he wants it to 
refund all the monthly payments  that have been  made.
Since then,  the hire agreement has been terminated and Motability has taken the car back. 
Motability also arranged  for an independent company to inspect the car. And the inspector 
said that the TPWL wasnt on while he was driving the car. He said he started the car a few 
times and the light would come on for a few seconds  and then go out.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding  this complaint. And I said the following:
Ref: DRN43378503I think  there are two key issues for me to decide  here:
1.Was the car of unsatisfactory  quality  when it was supplied  to Mr M and, if so, should 
Motability have  allowed  him to reject the car and hand  it back;  and
2.Was it fair for Motability  to want to charge Mr M any fees when he wanted to end the 
hire agreement?
I shall deal with each  point in turn. 
was the car of satisfactory  quality?
Mr M acquired the car under a hire agreement. Legislation  in this case the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015  implies  a term into the hire agreement that the car must be of satisfactory  
quality. As the supplier  or the car, Motability  is responsible for the quality of the car its 
provided under the agreement.
Mr M doesnt think the car was of satisfactory  quality as he says that he had issues with the 
TPWL coming on intermittently throughout the time he had the car. Motability doesnt dispute  
that the TPWL may have intermittently been  coming  on, but it doesnt think this means that 
Mr M was allowed  to end the agreement as a result of it. It said the sensors in the tyres are 
designed to be sensitive and it said that it was likely this was linked to cold weather. But it 
says it agreed to cover the costs of filling  the tyres with Nitrogen to resolve the issue.
I can see that Mr M originally reported  this issue to Motability in February  2017   four 
months after he first acquired the car. The managing  dealership  resolved  this issue  at the 
time. Mr M contacted Motability again 10 months  later in December 2017 to say the TPWL 
had come on again. Motability  arranged for the tyres to be filled with Nitrogen in February 
2018. 
The car that Motability supplied Mr M was new. So I think Mr M had a reasonable 
expectation that the car would be free from faults for a reasonable period of time. I can also 
see that Mr M had only driven around 5,000  miles  in the car by February 2018. So I can 
understand why he was concerned that the TPWL was continually coming on. Motability  
seems to be suggesting that the issue was down  to the sensors being overly  sensitive and 
was a characteristic of the car. While I dont dispute that may be the case, I dont think  it was 
fair that the TPWL  would  continually come on at a time of cold weather. 
However, Motability agreed  to cover the cost of filling  the tyres with Nitrogen as the 
managing dealership suggested this would resolve the issue. And this was done in February 
2018. It also agreed to refund the £97.60  Mr M said he incurred in taxi fares  while he 
couldnt use the car. 
Once the work was done on the tyres, I cant see that the issue  arose  again  until May 2018  
when the TPWL came  on again.  Mr M asked to reject the car at this point. But an inspection  
of the car showed that the TPWL came on because there was a nail in the tyre, so it wasnt 
related to the previous  incident. The dealership repaired  the tyre and this cleared the issue.
Under the CRA Mr M had the right to ask Motability  to fix the car where  a fault makes it not 
of satisfactory quality. But if that repair is unsuccessful, he has the right to ask to reject it. 
But I dont think it was unreasonable for Motability  to say that there wasnt anything  to show  
that filling the tyres with Nitrogen hadnt resolved the issue when Mr M asked  to reject the 
Ref: DRN43378504car in May 2018. It also refunded the taxi fares  he incurred during that time, so I think  
Motability had acted fairly and reasonably at this point.
In August  2018,  Mr M said that the TPWL came back on again  and he provided a photo 
showing this. But I havent seen enough to say that this was linked to the original underlying 
issue. I note the last time TPWL  came on was during the summer, whereas previously it was 
linked to periods  of cold weather. And hed driven  the car for six months  without the TPWL 
coming on for the previous  issue. So Im not persuaded it was linked to the previous fault. I 
also note that the independent engineer couldnt  find any faults with the car when he 
inspected it in October 2018.  So, while I dont  dispute that the TPWL may have  intermittently 
come on from August 2018, Im conscious that hed had the car and been using it for 
18 months. So I dont  think this issue makes the car of unsatisfactory quality and I dont think  
it was unreasonable for Motability to say that he couldnt reject it and end the agreement due 
to a breach of contract.
fees Motability said it would charge to end the agreement
In January 2018, Mr M contacted Motability  and said that he wanted to end the agreement. 
But Motability said it would charge  him £250 to do so. Mr M didnt think this was fair. He said 
that it had never charged him this before when he ended the agreement early and Motability 
had always provided  a full refund of the advanced  payment.  
Motability disputes that he always  got a full refund  of the advanced payment when he ended 
his previous hire agreements early. It said that hed previously  ended four hire agreements 
early and it had provided a pro-rata  refund of the advanced payment on three of the 
agreements and a full refund on one of them. It said that it waived the £250  cancellation  fee 
each time.  But it said contractually  Mr M wasnt entitled to a refund of the advanced payment 
unless it breached the terms of the agreement. It also said the terms allowed it to charge 
£250 if Mr M wanted to end the agreement early.
Ive reviewed the terms of the agreement which say that Mr M has to pay an administration  
charge of £250. It also says that Mr M is liable for the difference between the total rental 
costs payable over the full hire term, less any money it receives from selling the car. The 
terms further say that Motability can use its discretion to waive all or some of the amounts 
payable.
As I said above, I dont  think  Motability has breached the terms of the agreement. So under 
the terms of the agreement, Mr M wasnt entitled  to a refund of the advanced  payment if he 
ended the agreement early and he was required to pay the £250  administration fee. I 
appreciate that Motability had exercised its discretion previously when he ended  previous 
agreements early. But this doesnt mean that it had to do the same in this case.  So  I dont 
think Motability was acting unfairly when it initially said that he had to pay this.
However, I can see that it offered to provide a pro-rata refund of £305.36 of the advanced 
payment Mr M paid of £399. This was backdated  to July 2017 when Mr M first contacted the 
breakdown recovery  agent. Mr M wanted Motability to refund this payment before he handed 
the car back, so he could take out a new agreement. But Motability wasnt willing to pay the 
refund until Mr M handed the car back.  Its usual that any refund payable wont be made until 
the car is returned  and I dont think it was unreasonable for Motability  to say this. 
The agreement eventually ended in October 2018 and Motability gave Mr M a refund of 
£305.36. Given what I said above,  I think Motability acted fairly in this case.
Ref: DRN43378505Mr M responded to say that he didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said that when 
the breakdown  recovery agent came out they told him the car wasn't  safe to drive  which  is 
when he stopped driving it. And he doesn't think this has been taken seriously enough.  He 
recognised that hed had a refund of some travel costs, but he thinks he was entitled to 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  not having access to the car caused. 
He also says that hed recently  received a call asking him to terminate the agreement, but he 
said that this was already done  in October  2018.
Motability didnt respond to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also listened to the telephone call 
Mr M had with the investigator  where  he said he didnt agree with my provisional decision.  I 
know this will disappoint Mr M but Ive still decided to not uphold this complaint.
Mr M is unhappy  that I didnt require  Motability  to pay compensation for the issues he had in 
July 2017. He says the breakdown recovery agent  said that the car wasnt safe to drive.  So 
he says he didnt drive  it. I appreciate Mr M was unhappy about what  happened.  But, while  I 
note Mr Ms comments  about what the breakdown recovery  agent  said, I havent seen 
enough to say that he couldnt use it. 
I also note that Motability refunded the £97.60  in taxi costs he said he incurred. It also 
offered to provide a pro-rata  refund of the advanced  rental payment from July 2017  
£305.36. Mr M wasnt entitled to a refund  of the advance payment under the terms of his 
contract. And it only offered this because of the issues he was having  at the time. So it 
effectively offered him £305.36 in compensation. And I think  this is fair compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him.
Mr M says that he didnt get receipts  for all the taxi trips that he had to take. So he says hes 
still out of pocket as a result of whats happened. But I think the compensation Motability 
offered fairly covers this. And Mr M hasnt given us anything  to show that this doesnt cover 
the full costs hes incurred.
Mr M hasnt  provided any comments in respect  to my findings that the issue that arose in 
August 2018 was a new issue which meant  that he didnt have the right to reject the car. And 
I havent seen  anything to make  me change my original  opinion. Given  this, I still dont think 
Motability was unfair in saying that he couldnt  reject the car following the warning  light 
coming back on again in August 2018.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4337850