K820x#14complaint
Mrs F says Bank of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs F bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a credit card. She applied 
for the credit card and PPI policy by completing a paper  application form. 
Mrs F initially told us she worked as a bindery assistant and Halifax  says Mrs F 
mentioned that she mightve had a second job as a cleaner  for a few hours a day per 
week. When we sought clarification about her employment circumstances, Mrs F told us 
she worked full time as a barmaid. I note her credit card application form the time of sale 
also lists her employment  as barmaid  so I think thats likely  to be right. Mrs F has told 
us she was entitled to statutory sick pay provided  by her employer and she didnt  have 
any other means of repaying her credit  card should she be unable to work. Mrs F has 
said she was in good health  at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment, life, and critical  
illness cover   subject  to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mrs Fs 
credit card balance in the event of a successful  claim. At the time, it cost 78p per £100 of 
the monthly outstanding balance. The premium would continue to have  to be paid during 
a successful claim and it did attract interest. 
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the credit card account closed in 2006. 
Mrs Fs representative  has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Fs representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs F 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Fs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the 
value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  Halifax 
should have told Mrs F about  the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs F and 
the impact they would have had on her chances  of making a claim; and
Ref: DRN40997702The information Mrs F received  was misleading. These policies were promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the 
scope of the cover meant this was untrue. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs F disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  
all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order  to decide  what  
is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: 
relevant law and regulations; relevant  regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
relevant codes of practice; and, where  appropriate,  what I consider to have been  good  
industry practice at the time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general  
approach to PPI complaints on our website and published some example final decisions 
that set out in detail how these relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales  like Mrs 
Fs. I dont  intend to set that out in much detail  here but Ive taken  this into account  in 
deciding Mrs Fs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching 
principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not 
applicable to this complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgement 
in Plevin about  s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgement, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum 
standards of good practice for its members to follow when selling insurance, including  
PPI. 
Ref: DRN40997703The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I 
consider to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected  from 
intermediaries, like Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice 
for all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  
of intermediaries like Halifax  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of Mrs Fs case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law 
relating to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  
duty on professional  advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); 
the law relating to the duty of utmost good faith;  and the law relating  to causation and 
remoteness. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating 
to the sale of PPI. This sale took place  before insurance mediation became a regulated  
activity, so Halifax was required  to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if 
they were guidance  when  considering Mrs Fs complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I 
need to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs F with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mrs F sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN40997704-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs 
F, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what extent Mrs F suffered  loss 
or damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss 
or damage.  
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs F and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs F know she had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Mrs F says she mightve applied for her credit card and PPI by completing a postal 
application form. But Halifax says this was a branch application. Ive seen  a copy of 
Halifaxs computer records and this shows this application was completed in branch. So, 
I think Halifax is likely to be right and this was a branch  application. 
Halifax has provided a copy of Mrs Fs application form which  had a separate  section for 
adding PPI. There was a box to tick if customers wanted PPI and on Mrs Fs form, this 
box has been ticked. There was nothing on this form indicating  that the PPI was 
compulsory, so it couldve been  left blank if she didnt want it. 
Mrs F has indicated that her reading  and spelling skills  are limited, but I note that this 
was a branch  application  with an adviser present.  From what I know  of how these sales 
were usually made in branch, I think its likely the adviser wouldve  told her at least some  
of the basic information about the PPI before  she agreed to it and Halifax  normally made 
the optional nature of the PPI clear. Additionally, she provided all her details and felt able 
enough to apply for a credit card and sign the credit  agreement. And the PPI was only a 
very small  part of the form, with a brief description of cover. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs F knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says that advice was provided during this sale and Mrs F hasnt said if she 
agrees. Looking at what happened when Halifax sold Mrs F the PPI, Im persuaded that 
it provided advice. I say this because  from what  Ive seen of sales made in branch during 
a meeting, the sales were usually advised. And Ive got no reason to doubt what Halifax 
says. 
This means  Halifax had to advise Mrs F with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs F. It seems Mrs F cant remember clearly  what happened  and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is 
unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser likely had some limited 
information about Mrs Fs financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence  to 
Ref: DRN40997705show the adviser took steps to establish whether Mrs F would  have been  caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet her needs.  For example,  there  is nothing to suggest Halifax considered whether 
Mrs F had any pre-existing medical  conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that Halifax did all it should  
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs F given her 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs F, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs F met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs F had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs Fs ability to continue  to 
meet her credit card repayments would  have been put under strain if she was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for her statutory sick pay. 
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs F. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs F. from 
what Mrs F has said., there was nothing  about Mrs Fs employment  or 
occupation which would have made  it difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt  told 
us about any pre-existing medical conditions that could affect her ability to claim.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each 
claim for disability, unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mrs Fs 
circumstances. 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mrs F sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  
Halifax was recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs F was given  a very broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is, that the policy would protect  her card payments 
in the event she was unable to work  through disability or unemployment). Ive reached  
this conclusion because  I think  Mrs F would have been told this  at the very least  
during the discussion with the adviser.  I think its unlikely Mrs F would  have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was. The application form she signed also 
described the policy as providing cover for involuntary unemployment, disability, critical 
illness and life which would have given her some  idea of what the policy was for.
Im also satisfied from the credit card application  that Mrs F ought reasonably  to have 
understood that the policy cost 78p per £100 of the statement balance  if she was not 
also told this by the adviser during  the discussion.
Ref: DRN40997706But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Halifax  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the 
month, and were payable  during a claim) or about the exclusions and limitations, before 
Mrs F agreed to take out the policy. Even  if that information were  in a leaflet  or policy  
summary Mrs F might  have been given, I think its more likely than not that she based 
her decision  on the things she was told, rather than on anything she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs F, Im not persuaded Halifax  
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to Mrs F. Im not persuaded  that Halifax  gave Mrs F all of the 
information she needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons 
set out above,  Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Fs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs 
Fs. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Fs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have 
just told Mrs F about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Fs representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having 
to disclose the claims ratio information  or explaining  the significance  of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mrs F has suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude  that Halifax ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mrs F? To what extent  did Mrs F 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs F. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs F 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs 
F would have still taken out the policy, had Halifax done things properly. 
Ref: DRN40997707While Im not persuaded that Halifax took the steps it should have done  to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Mrs F, I have found that the policy  
was ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs F has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things 
properly, Mrs F would have acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the 
policy in any event.
Mrs F says she would not have taken  it out and believes that I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. I have considered  the 
representations of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh 
up a number of factors before deciding  whether  to proceed. Effectively the consumer 
has to weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing  so given the benefits 
offered in return and the potential consequences  they will suffer  if they do not have 
insurance, should the risks come to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs F had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised her that there  was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her credit card payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what she thought she was getting is not exactly  what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Fs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs F ought  reasonably to have known she would  
have to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion  of her outstanding 
balance  this was set out on the application  form. But I accept that Halifax  didnt make  
clear the on-going cost information.  So while Mrs F didnt know some  things,  the ultimate 
position in the event  of a successful claim was not dissimilar to what she would  
reasonably have thought  from the information she based her decision to take out the 
policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs F thought  she had bought  
and what she actually  bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mrs 
F experienced, whether diagnosed or not, or for which she had consulted  a 
doctor about during the 12 months prior to the start date of the policy which  
recurs within 12 months of the start date of the policy;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on 
those grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs F 
wasnt a permanent employee.
Ref: DRN40997708The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs F be 
unable to do her own job or any other work which her experience or training 
reasonably qualified her to do.; 
The cover  provided  by the policy  ended when Mrs F turned  65. 
I do accept there is a possibility that the limitations  and exclusions above  might well 
have caused Mrs F pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. 
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, 
might have dissuaded some consumers  in slightly different circumstances from Mrs F 
from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mrs Fs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to 
her should  the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to 
suggest she wouldve  been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs F didnt 
have any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent  employment. So, I still 
think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs F 
might reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. 
And while this limitation might have dissuaded  some  consumers in slightly different  
circumstances to Mrs F from taking out the policy, Mrs F, in her circumstances, still had 
some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mrs F had known  she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable  to do 
her job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers  view she might  reasonably  be 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would do. And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although given Mrs Fs circumstances, 
and the limited other means she had to make her payments if she couldnt  work, on 
balance, I still think she would have  been  interested in taking out the cover.
Mrs F has complained that she reached 65 while the policy  was in place - and she 
wouldnt have been able to claim on it at that point. But Mrs F was 48 years old when 
she took out the PPI, so I think its more likely than not shed have thought  shed still get 
some value out of having the PPI, as it would have covered her for a reasonable period 
of time before she turned 65. And the policy would end when she turned 65 so she 
would stop paying for it at this time. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more 
likely than not that Mrs F would still have  taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what she thought she was getting  and she had very limited means of meeting 
her credit card repayments  if she was unable to work due to accident  or sickness and, 
she thought, redundancy. And in those circumstances, I consider it more likely  than not 
that she would have taken out the policy in any event.  
Ref: DRN40997709Mrs Fs representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. 
Considering the purpose of the guidance,  I dont think it was ever intended  to be at odds  
with the approach I have taken. 
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might 
lead to. In the language of DISP  App 3, I have  found  it would be reasonable to conclude  
there were substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP  App 3 
says it should  be presumed Mrs F would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in 
the particular circumstances  of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the 
presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is 
rebutted in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account 
Mrs Fs circumstances  as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the 
position Mrs F found herself  in as a result  of the sale was the same position she would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mrs F believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  
failed to give proper  weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she 
would not have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 
(which I dont consider  I am), I am only doing so because I do not consider, in this case, 
that it would  represent fair compensation to put Mrs F in the position she would have 
been in if she had not bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about 
the policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mrs F compensation, as that would put 
her in a better position than she would have  been  in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs F thinks  Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mrs F, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2002 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Fs representative says a court might take if it 
were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs F and about  the 
Ref: DRN409977010remedy a court might award if it were to find that Halifax had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint   including what  I think  is 
fair compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out 
I dont think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs F in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the 
reasons I have set out above,  I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 September 2021.
Asma Begum 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4099770