K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains about money  lent to him by Lloyds Bank Plc.
background
Mr S said that hed had a serious accident late in 2017. After  this, hed experienced very 
difficult personal circumstances  that led him to repeatedly ask Lloyds to increase his 
overdraft. He said that his overdraft went from just £50 to £2,500 in less than four months.  
He set out for us how many lending applications he had made, and how his overdraft had 
gone up. 
Mr S said that he thought  that there were a number  of factors  that Lloyds was required to 
take into account, which it hadnt  considered when it lent him so much money. He wanted  
Lloyds to pay him back all of the overdraft changes and fees hed paid.  And he wanted it to 
repay him the money  hed borrowed,  which hed since  paid back. 
Lloyds said that it didnt think it had done  anything wrong. It said that Mr S had told it he was 
earning between  £1,300  and £3,000  per month  when he applied  for the lending. It said that it 
was satisfied that its lending processes were compliant with the current  regulations  in place.
Lloyds said that it had already refunded £100 of the fees he had been charged. Now, in 
recognition of the recent difficulties he had faced, it would refund  all the remaining charges  
that had been applied  to his account  for this overdraft. That added  up to £169.06.  It would 
round that up to £200. It said it was doing this as an attempt to help him.
So Lloyds said that it would credit Mr Ss account with £200,  and reduce his overdraft by that 
amount. It would then limit his overdraft to its new level for 12 months, and it could  extend  
the limit beyond that time if he would like. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that she didnt think that Lloyds knew  
about the difficulties Mr S was having  after November 2017, and she didnt think it was 
Lloyds responsibility  to monitor his account  and look for problems. Our adjudicator said that 
Mr S had completed applications  without declaring his salary  correctly, but she thought that 
deposits in cash  and transfers into his account made his income look larger. And she said it 
was his responsibility to declare his income  accurately. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Lloyds had made  a mistake. When  Mr Ss applications  
exceeded a level of borrowing that Lloyds  considered reasonable, it refused further lending.  
Our adjudicator said that in refunding all of the charges  on Mr Ss account since  November 
2017, and paying £30.94 to make  a total of £200,  Lloyds had done  more than she would 
expect it to do. So she didnt think it had to do any more. In particular, she didnt think that 
Lloyds had to give Mr S the money hed loaned  from it and then paid back. 
Mr S didnt agree with that. He said that Lloyds cant have considered,  when it looked  at his 
later applications,  the previous applications hed already made,  and in particular the sheer 
number of them. Mr S wanted an ombudsman to consider his complaint, so it was passed  to 
me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
Ref: DRN43377722I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt  propose  to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
-Mr S said that he thought Lloyds should  have  taken into account the number of previous 
applications that hed made for credit. But I didnt think  that in itself would necessarily 
suggest that the lending Mr S was requesting was unaffordable for him. And Lloyds said 
that its quite likely that if hed just applied  at first for a much larger overdraft, it wouldve 
been granted. 
-But I did think that Lloyds hasnt shown that it complied  with parts  of the FCA handbook 
which govern responsible lending. One part of that handbook says that Lloyds should 
take reasonable steps to determine the amount, or make a reasonable estimate  .., of 
Mr Ss current income. 
-Lloyds appeared to have relied on what Mr S declared his income to be. But I did think 
that the FCA handbook suggested  that may not be enough.  It says that it is not 
generally sufficient  to rely solely  on a statement of current income made  by the customer 
without independent evidence.
-I noted that Mr Ss declared income  fluctuated  noticeably and rapidly  over the rather 
short period of his applications for lending. I also noted  that there was no explanation for 
that, and that towards the end of the time that Lloyds  was lending Mr S money, his 
declared income wasnt consistent  with the amounts being paid into his account. By 
then, he was also no longer receiving a salary into his account.
-So, considering  this case as a whole,  I thought  it was likely that Lloyds  hadnt  in fact 
taken the required  steps to show that all of its lending to Mr S since  November 2017 was 
responsible. So I thought Lloyds  made  some  mistakes in this case. I thought it was likely  
that the later increases that it offered Mr S, when he was no longer receiving a salary 
into his account,  hadnt been  shown to be responsible lending.
-But I said Id reached the same  conclusion on this case  as our adjudicator. Thats  
because I didnt  think that these mistakes  changed the outcome here. When  a bank does 
something wrong, our service looks at what that bank  has done to make up for its 
mistake. And in this case, Lloyds  had already done what I wouldve expected it to do. It 
paid back all the charges that had been  applied  to Mr Ss account since November 2017, 
and it included a small amount  of compensation.
-I knew that Mr S wanted  Lloyds  to give him back the maximum  amount  that he borrowed, 
and then write off that debt. He had paid his debt off, but I understood he did so by 
borrowing from family, so he still owed this money elsewhere. But I didnt think  that 
Lloyds had to give him back the money that he was lent, and let him keep it. 
-It might not be fair to Mr S to allow Lloyds  to make a profit  from the parts of this lending  
which may not have  been responsible. So I said it was reasonable for Lloyds to pay him 
back what hed been charged for this borrowing. But I also thought that it wouldnt be fair 
to Lloyds, given  that its initial lending probably was responsible, that Mr S wasnt honest 
about his circumstances, and that there  werent  other warning signs of serious problems 
on his account,  to require it to totally write off this debt.
Ref: DRN43377723-For those reasons, Id reached the same  conclusion as our adjudicator.  I thought Lloyds 
had already done enough to make  up for what had gone wrong in this case,  so I didnt 
think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr S said hed received  my decision,  and although he was disappointed not to get any 
money, he hoped  Lloyds would act on my finding  that it had made mistakes. Lloyds sent a 
detailed reply, to say that it didnt think it had made mistakes.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Lloyds said it didnt  agree  with my comments,  especially  about  the numbers of overdraft  
applications, and Mr Ss income. It said it had some additional points for me to consider.
 
Lloyds said that its credit strategies do take into account the number of previous applications  
within a specific timeframe. And it said that in Mr Ss case, several of his overdraft requests 
were not automatically  approved as they failed these frequency rules.
When Lloyds wrote to our service with details of Mr Ss complaint, it said that two of his 
applications for increased lending had been referred  between  3 and 30 January, and that 
further increases  after 18 April were declined. Its not clear whether these increases were 
declined because of their frequency, or simply because  Mr S was asking for increases over 
and above what  Lloyds was prepared to lend him. But I think it is clear that Mr S didnt think  
that he shouldve  been able to apply for lending,  then apply  again  as quickly  as a day or two 
days later,  and have  the second application  approved. Looking  at the applications he made 
which were agreed,  its clear he was able to do that. But, as Ive set out, I didnt think  that 
automatically made the lending to him irresponsible.
Lloyds also said it did take reasonable steps to validate Mr Ss stated income. It said this 
involved taking into consideration credits made to the customers  current account (and it said 
its data confirmed a regular credit from a firm that was presumably  Mr Ss employer). Lloyds 
also said that where its internal estimates  of income  were lower than Mr Ss stated income,  
those internal estimates of income  were used, to ensure  a conservative approach.
Lloyds said that it used its internal estimates of income, regardless of any fluctuations  in 
Mr Ss declared income. And it said that these internal estimates  provided  sufficient  
disposable income to support the level of overdraft granted.
Lloyds also said that it wouldnt  have been able to tell straight away that Mr Ss salary  credit 
decreased (which it said happened from April 2018 onwards). But it said that for every 
application a customer is asked their current employment status  and confirmation  that they 
are not aware  of any change in circumstances that would impact their ability  to repay  the 
overdraft. And it said that when it asks this, decreases in income or increases in expenditure 
are signposted. Lloyds said that Mr S on every occasion stated that he was employed and 
had no change in circumstances. 
I think there are some difficulties  with what Lloyds is saying. Ive pointed to two parts  of the 
FCA handbook  that I thought were relevant to this complaint; one part which says that 
Lloyds should  take reasonable  steps  to determine the amount, or make a reasonable 
Ref: DRN43377724estimate .., of Mr Ss current income. And another  part which  says it is not generally 
sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income  made by the customer without 
independent evidence.
On one hand, Lloyds has pointed to Mr Ss repeated declarations that he was working, and 
had no change in circumstances. On the other,  it says it didnt rely on his income 
declarations, but made its own internal estimate  of his income.
Mr Ss salary was just under £1,000 in December 2017. It was just over £1,000 in January 
2017. But then it decreased to about £700 per month for the next two months. Lloyds said 
that Mr Ss salary credit  decreased from April 2017. But it didnt decrease in April 2017,  it 
decreased in February. By April,  it had already ended  altogether.  The last payment from his 
previous employer was in March. He seems to have been unemployed after that, and didnt 
receive any further wages  until May.
Lloyds reached  a series  of decisions to increase Mr Ss overdraft from £500  at the end of 
March to £2,500 by the middle of April, although  it should by that time have been aware that 
Mr Ss wages  had dropped. Lloyds argument  would seem to be that it had made a 
reasonable estimate of Mr Ss income,  to base those lending decisions on. But it doesnt  
seem as if Lloyds checked with Mr S why his declared income didnt match  the salary it 
could see coming  into his account,  or whether the other credits that he at times received into 
his account were likely to be regular payments in that could form the basis  of responsible  
lending decisions.  Its not clear to me that the estimates  of Mr Ss income  that Lloyds 
apparently relied  on were  reasonable. 
I still dont think, on the evidence  that Ive seen, that Im able to conclude that the lending 
made to Mr S was clearly responsible. But, as Lloyds has already done what  I wouldve 
expected it to do, if it couldnt show this lending was responsible, I still dont think  that 
changes the outcome in this case.  I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4337772