K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the failure of Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  to provide 
information to him about the repossession of his property in 2010.  Mr S wants Halifax  to 
provide it.
background
Mr S bought a property  in 2006  for £285,000. It was repossessed and sold in November 
2010 for £144,000 and the property was resold later for £160,000. This left a substantial 
shortfall. Although  Halifax sold the property in 2010  Mr S says that the first contact he had 
from Halifax was in May 2018  when debt recovery agents contacted him. Mr S says that 
because of the passage of time that its unfair  for Halifax  to pursue the debt, Our 
adjudicators view was that Halifax had made reasonable efforts to contact Mr S after it sold 
the property and didnt think that it was unfair of Halifax to try to collect  the debt that Mr S 
owed. Mr S disagreed  and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There seem  to be several issues related to this complaint. I note that Mr Ss representatives 
say that they have  no issue with the price  achieved on sale. Butt Mr S may have issues  
surrounding the loan that he originally got in 2006 and the loan to value ratio.  But that issue  
isnt part of this complaint  as it wasnt put to Halifax  in the original complaint and it has not 
had an opportunity to respond to that issue.  
This complaint relates to whether its fair for Halifax to ask for its debt to be repaid more than 
six years  after it became due following the sale of the property. Mr S has referred me to a 
number of regulations  to support his complaint.  In particular the regulations  require Halifax  to 
send Mr S information about the mortgage shortfall as soon as possible after the property 
was sold. 
According to Halifax it passed the debt to a firm of solicitors in 2010  after the property was 
sold. That firm tried to contact Mr S to inform him about the debt and to see what  his 
proposals about repayment were.  Halifax says that the solicitors  attempted to trace  Mr S on 
four occasions but did not have  a forwarding address as Mr S didnt supply this to Halifax. It 
then seems that the matter was passed  to another firm of solicitors  who made attempts to 
contact Mr S in 2013 and in 2017. That firm was also unable to trace  Mr S. Halifax then 
passed the file to a debt recovery agency in 2018  and Mr S has responded to their attempts 
to contact him.
So, whilst Halifax should provide information about the house sale as soon as possible after 
it happened, it can only do so if it were able to contact Mr S. Mr S hasnt made the point that 
he provided Halifax with details of his new address. So in those circumstances I cant fairly 
find Halifax at fault if it was unable to contact  Mr S until recently. As time has passed I 
understand that some of the information  that Mr S and his advisers requested  may no longer 
be available.  Although this information is not presented to Mr S in the way it would have 
been in 2010 Im of the view that there  is still a debt due, It were  better for all concerned  if 
Ref: DRN40441912this had been dealt with earlier but if Halifax didnt have a forwarding address for Mr S I cant 
say that Halifax  was at fault for the lack of contact. On that basis I cant  fairly uphold this 
complaint.   
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4044191