K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that Revolut Limited (Revolut) blocked his account, then returned the funds
in his account to their original sources,  instead  of to Mr O.
Mr O brings his complaint  on behalf  of his company, I Limited.
background
On 24 January 2019, Revolut blocked  Mr Os account while it carried  out a review.  It
completed its review on 20 February  2019  and decided to close Mr Os account  without
issuing any advance notice, and to return the funds in the account to the original  sources. At
the time,  Mr Os account balance was £17,047  and €6,176.
Mr O complained but Revolut rejected his complaint. It said it had acted in accordance with
its terms of business, but didnt give any further details. So, Mr O brought his complaint to 
our Service.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought  Revolut was entitled to close Mr Os
account, but didnt think it had treated him fairly when  it returned the funds  to source. She
said the funds  related  to Bitcoin  trades Mr O had made and noted that Revoluts actions
meant he no longer  had the Bitcoins or the money he had received in return for them. She
said Revolut should  return the funds to Mr O.
Revolut disagreed. It said it was up to Mr O to get his money back from his clients  and that it
had acted in accordance with standard industry  operating procedures when it returned the
funds to source.
On 4 December  2020, I issued  a provisional  decision. In it, I said:
Account  block
Having looked  at the evidence Revolut has provided  me with to justify  its actions,  Im
satisfied it acted in accordance  with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked and
reviewed Mr Os account. And that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and
conditions. So, I cant reasonably say it treated Mr O unfairly by blocking his account.
However, my understanding of Mr Os complaint is that he is less concerned  with the block
itself, and more  concerned with gaining access to his funds.
Access to funds
Before a bank  releases  funds held in a customers  account, its entitled to carry out checks  to
ensure its complying with its legal  and regulatory  obligations. And banks will follow  their
internal procedures before they release funds.
With that said, Revolut  hasnt provided  a satisfactory  explanation, supported by evidence,  as
to why it returned the money in Mr Os account  to the original sources,  rather  than releasing
it to him. I accept there  are times when its appropriate for a bank to return  funds  to their
original sources. But in order to decide  whether or not that is the case, I would need to see
appropriate evidence  to support such a decision.
I understand why Revolut  had concerns over the way Mr O was operating  his account. But I
Ref: DRN46418192dont agree it treated Mr O fairly  when  it returned the money  in his account to source.  In
order to justify such action, I would expect to see evidence to support its reasoning. While
Revolut has explained  its reasons to our Service, it hasnt been  able to provide sufficient
evidence to persuade me that its actions  were fair and reasonable in the circumstances of
this case.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the people who sent money to Mr Os account  had challenged
the payments,  or requested their money  back before Revolut returned them. And Im not
persuaded Revolut had sufficient evidence to justify depriving Mr O of the funds in his
account. If it did, it hasnt shared that evidence with our Service.
Its also not fair to say Mr O can recover the money from his clients.  Mr O parted with the
Bitcoins in return for payment, so now hes left in a position where  he has nothing. Ive seen
evidence that Mr O has sought to recover the funds, but he has mostly been unsuccessful
with the third parties unwilling  to co-operate. And its worth noting  that none of the responses
he received suggested he wasnt entitled  to the money  in the first place.
Ive cross-referenced  Mr Os bank statements against the payments Revolut returned,  and I
cant see that he has been successful in recovering any significant sums. Mr O says he
recovered £2,476.41, and I havent  seen any evidence to suggest he was able to recover
more.
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Im minded to tell Revolut to pay Mr O an equivalent sum
to the money  it returned to senders, less the £2,476.41 Mr O recovered.  That would be a
total of £14,570.59 plus €6,176.
Mr O has said that he would have  repaid  a loan, had he had access to the funds in his
Revolut account.  And that he has therefore incurred interest  as a result  of Revoluts actions.
But the loan agreement is in his partners  name  and I havent seen any evidence  to support
what he says about him being liable for the interest  or the debt.  So, Im not minded to ask
Revolut to cover any interest Mr O says he incurred. 
I asked the parties  to provide me with any further  submissions or evidence by 4 January 
2021. Neither party responded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party to me provisional findings, I see no reason to change them. So, it 
follows that I uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN46418193my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that Revolut Limited  must pay Mr O 
£14,570.59 plus €6,176.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2021.
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4641819