K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains about charges  she has been asked to pay when  he ended her hire 
agreement with Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc. She is assisted in her complaint  by her husband.
Background
Mrs F entered into a hire agreement  to acquire a car in 2016.  She was asked to pay charges 
of £693.83 for damage to the car at the end of the agreement.  Hitachi  says the damage 
includes several  bumps and scratches  and a hole in the carpet. Mrs F was unhappy  with the 
charges and she complained to Hitachi. Mrs F says she only drove  the car for 10,000 in two 
years. She wasnt aware of the carpet damage. A service did not mention the carpet wear  
and tear in August 2017. Mrs F says she was not given a chance  to fix the problems and she 
had no options  to pay for the repairs. Mrs F does not want to pay the charges by direct debit. 
Hitachi did not uphold  Mrs Fs complaint. It said the damage was more  than fair wear  and 
tear so it can charge for it under the terms of the hire agreement. Hitachi used the BVRLA 
guidelines in applying the charges. 
Mrs F was not happy with Hitachis  response and brought  a complaint to us to consider. 
The investigator did not recommend that the complaint should  be upheld.  She considered 
the charges had been correctly raised.  The car was inspected  prior to collection in line with 
BVRLA guidelines. The damage to the car was outside of fair wear and tear. Mrs F did not 
report a problem with the quality of the carpet when she had the car. 
The investigator considered Mrs F can cancel a direct debit. The charges have  not yet been 
collected while the service  investigates Mrs Fs complaint. The investigator  noted that the 
service report from August 2017  did not mention the carpet damage. The investigator was 
satisfied from the inspectors report dated 4 April that there was damage to the carpet. This 
is shown in photographs  taken of the car. The service report  mentioned the scratches to the 
car. 
Ref: DRN46988772Mrs F is not happy to accept the investigators recommendation. She says, in summary,  that 
they have not asked  for all the charges to be removed.  It is just the charge for the carpet. 
Mrs F had cancelled her direct  debit. If she had not, the money could have been taken 
without her consent. The invoice says the repairs took place  on 26 April 2018. This is not 
correct as the repairs had not taken place. 
Mrs F points out that the car had only been driven for 10,000 miles. This is less than half of 
the allowed  mileage. This will balance out the cost of the repairs. Mrs F could not report  the 
carpet damage as she did not know about it. There are many complaints  about the carpet in 
the type of car Mrs F acquired under the hire agreement.  The inspection took place before 
7am when it was dark and wet and visibility was poor. 
Mrs F says she should  not have to pay a repair estimate when the repairs have not been 
carried out. The low mileage will balance out the cost of the repairs.  
The investigator replied  to say that the car was collected on 4th April 2018. The invoice was 
raised on 26th April 2018.  Mrs F complained on 30th April 2018. The direct debit would have 
been taken on 31 May. Mrs F would have received a statement  on 11 May and the charges 
would have  been  included on it. The investigator considered Mrs F had enough time to 
cancel the direct debit  before the charges would have  been taken from her account. 
The investigator said he had spoken to Hitachi. The term recharge of repair  does not 
meant it was repaired on that date.  The words are used whether repairs are to be carried  out 
or not. Hitachi sold the car without repairing it. 
The investigator noted that Mrs F did not use the full mileage allowance.  This cannot be 
used to cover damage to the carpet. The terms of the finance agreement do not allow  
charges to be written  off when the full mileage is not used. 
Mrs F responded to say, in summary,  she did not know  about the carpet  damage but she 
accepts there was a hole in it. The hole should  not be expected after 10,000 miles. Mrs F 
could have  contested it under  the cars  warranty. An online search  shows  problems with the 
carpet in this type of car. Mrs F could not complain about  the hole or claim under the 
warranty as she did not know  about  it. The car is still under warranty.  Mrs F has been denied 
the chance to claim under  it. 
The wording on the invoice says the charge is for repairs carried out on 26th April 2018.  This 
suggests the repairs were carried out. Mrs F was not allowed the opportunity to repair  the 
car or have her own inspection carried out. 
Mrs F asked  for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F feels strongly  about this so I realise  she is going to be disappointed as Ive reached 
the same  conclusion as our investigator.
Ive read and considered  the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment  on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN46988773board and think  about  it, but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I have  looked at the hire agreement that Mrs F signed. And from that its clear she needed to 
return her vehicle  in good condition with no damage outside of what is considered  fair wear 
and tear.
Mrs F does not dispute the charges for the scratches and dents as these were picked up on 
a service on the car in August 2017.  Our investigator concluded that it was reasonable for 
Hitachi to charge for these. Mrs F accepted that part of the view.
Mrs F is unhappy  with the charge  for the hole in the carpet. Mrs F says she did not know 
about it. She was not given the chance to repair it or claim for it under the cars warranty.  
Mrs F does  not dispute there was a hole in the carpet as the inspector noted  it. Mrs F is also 
unhappy the wording on the invoice suggested the repairs had been carried  out when this 
was not the case. 
I appreciate if a car is returned  directly  after an inspection there is no opportunity to make 
good any repairs at that point. Mrs F thought  the repairs had been  carried  out so she could  
not claim under the cars warranty. But I think the main  point is that the contract  clearly 
states Mrs F needed to return the car in good condition.  So she would have  been aware of 
that before  she gave the vehicle back and could have  made arrangements to have the car 
independently inspected before she gave it back to check for any damage to the car. 
Mrs F returned the car with damage. I dont think it was unreasonable  for Hitachi to charge 
for it. 
Im required  to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I dont think the 
fact Mrs F wasnt given  the chance  to claim under  the warranty changes her liability for the 
charges Hitachi are making. This is because, as I have noted, the terms of the hire 
agreement Mrs F signed say shell  be responsible for damage to the car when it is returned  
outside of fair wear and tear. Any repairs needed  could have been identified and remedied 
before the car was given  back to Hitachi. 
I can understand that Mrs F is disappointed to find that Hitachi havent chosen to repair  the 
vehicle but are, nonetheless, charging  her for the damage. This is normal  industry practice 
and I think Hitachi are entitled to take a decision,  a calculated risk, to sell the vehicle at with 
the faults highlighted, and take a lesser value  for the car. The refurbishment  charges are 
calculated to compensate Hitachi for that loss and having reviewed the individual  charges I 
dont think they are excessive.
So for these reasons I dont think it would be fair to ask Hitachi  to take any further  action.
As the investigator has pointed out, there  is no term in the finance agreement  which  allows 
for the charges to be offset  against  a low mileage. Low mileage cant  be offset against 
damage that falls outside fair wear  and tear.
Ref: DRN46988774My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Rosemary Lloyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4698877