K821x#15complaint
Mrs A is unhappy with her home insurer CIS General Insurance  Limited because when it 
was handling  a claim for them  after a water leak occurred, they were made to move home 
when the property wasnt dry.
background
There was a leak from the bath at Mrs As home.  CIS accepted the claim and the loss 
adjuster said the family needed  to move out to allow the property to be dried. The family  
moved into a hotel for four weeks.
The hotel stay was ending on 17 April 2018. CIS wouldnt agree to let the family stay there 
any longer. Mrs A didnt  think the house was in a suitable state to move  back into but they 
were given no choice.  The adjuster  had felt the house  was mostly dry  but when the family 
returned home on 18 April 2018  the driers  were  still in place. It was 14 May 2018 before the 
drying company  confirmed the house  was as dry as it had been before the incident. 
Mrs A was also concerned because  the walls were bare, some ceilings had been taken 
down, the kitchen was partly  stripped  with the cooker not working properly  and all the floor 
coverings had been removed (leaving uneven surfaces, floorboards,  nails and gripper rods 
exposed). Mrs A felt the environment  was unhealthy. She reported to CIS that all the family 
had become ill, with one child visiting A&E. She attributed it all to living in the unrepaired 
house. 
The loss adjuster accepted the house  was inconvenient for the family to live in, but didnt 
accept it was dangerous. He agreed to pay a disturbance allowance to make  up for extra 
costs the family had. He also arranged for the gripper rods to be removed.
CIS reviewed Mrs As complaint. It noted the action the adjuster had taken and confirmed it 
believed the home was habitable when the family  returned to it on 18 April 2018. But CIS 
accepted it hadnt communicated well with Mrs A during the claim.  It said it would pay £100 
compensation. Mrs A complained to us.
Our investigator felt that CIS had been unfair to make the family move home when it did. But 
he bore in mind that once there some action had been taken  to improve the situation and 
costs had been accounted  for by provision  of a disturbance allowance. He said CIS should 
pay a further £100  compensation. CIS agreed.
Mrs A remained unhappy.  She said our award was disproportionate given  the stress, shock 
and financial  loss suffered. She provided  a letter to show one child had visited  A&E but this 
didnt detail the symptoms or any suspected cause. Mrs A said CIS would have  had to spend 
at least £2,000 to keep  them in the hotel for a further  month,  and given their extreme  
trauma,  which  CIS had largely  ignored, this was what it should pay now as compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and whilst I do 
understand how upset Mrs A is at everything that has gone on, Im not persuaded to 
increase the award suggested  by our investigator.
Ref: DRN45272462This was clearly a difficult time for Mrs A and her family. But I have to bear in mind  that an 
insurer isnt bound to continue paying  for a family to stay elsewhere when their home is 
habitable. Strictly speaking that means  when it has basic functions such as heating and hot 
water as well washing  and cooking facilities. I know the kitchen wasnt in a fully working state 
but nor was it unusable. The home was habitable.
That being  said Id always encourage an insurer  to look beyond  the strict definition of 
habitability to ensure their policyholder  at the heart of a claim is dealt with as an individual  
taking into account  their needs. Living with driers going is an inconvenience  for most  and 
not something Id necessarily say should prevent a family  moving home. Likewise, not 
having floor coverings. However, its apparent that Mrs A had young  children and she had 
bought her concerns to CIS attention. It should  really have done more to listen to her. 
Whilst I know Mrs A feels the whole family fell sick due to conditions  in the house, I havent 
seen any clear evidence  of that, or that such was due to the environment. It may have  been  
but without proof I cant ascribe the upset  and inconvenience that Mrs A suffered, by being  ill 
herself and seeing  her family become ill, to any failure of CIS to heed her concerns.
I understand Mrs A is concerned that someone  may have been  seriously  hurt. Thankfully this 
didnt occur, and I cant award compensation based on what might have happened.
I also dont award compensation based  on how much an insurer  might have spent if it had 
handled things  better.  My awards are made in line with this services approach and taking 
into account the individual circumstances of the case. For the distress  and inconvenience Im 
satisfied CIS caused by not listening to Mrs As concerns, causing the family to move  home  
to a less than ideal environment (although strictly  a habitable one) and also by not handling 
the claim properly, Im satisfied a total of £200 compensation is due to Mrs A. If £100 has 
been paid already then only a further £100 will now need to be paid.
 
my final decision
I uphold this decision. I require CIS General Insurance  Limited  to pay Mrs A a total of £200  
compensation, if £100 has been paid already and received by Mrs A then it now only need 
pay the remainder.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4527246