K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (Natwest)  hasnt  paid him enough 
money as a result of it accepting that it had mis-sold  him a packaged bank account. He says 
that Natwest has incorrectly  used  some of the money to off set debt  as he cleared his 
debt years ago and no longer owes them any money.
background
In 2018 Mr R complained  to Natwest about the sale of a packaged bank account. Natwest 
upheld his complaint and calculated what it owed him, paying some directly  to him, and the 
rest to its in-house Recoveries Team. The amount it paid to him was the 8% interest 
calculation which forms part of our standard approach when putting things right. The other 
amount was calculated  as being  the refund  of the PBA fees hed actually  paid minus  a small 
deduction for some banking benefits.
When Mr R queried this, and explained  he had paid off all his debt with Natwest some  years 
ago, it disagreed. Mr R then came to this service, where the adjudicator  looked  into the 
evidence and concluded that Natwest hadnt  done anything wrong, as the available 
information showed that Mr R did have old debt with Natwest.
Mr R still disagrees,  and has asked  an ombudsman to look at his case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  To be clear,  the only point at issue  in this 
decision is whether  it is fair for Natwest to exercise the right of set-off. I have not 
considered any mis-sale  issues, or the calculation or the redress amount itself. Having 
looked at all the relevant information, I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint, and Ill explain 
why.
I can rarely  be 100% certain about what has happened, particular when looking into a 
complaint which  is to do with relatively  historic issues.  But its my job to use the evidence to 
decide what I think is more likely  than not to be the case, on the balance of probabilities.
did Mr R still owe Natwest money after his current account closed/went into collections?
Mr R has told this service  several times  that he remembers paying off all his debt with 
Natwest some years  back. Hes mentioned both a PPI refund, and a re-mortgage with a third 
party, as being  the ways  he had the money to do that. He also mentioned  a court  case, 
which he says he lost, but which led to him not having to pay anymore.
Ive looked carefully  through all the records that Natwest  has been able to provide,  and it 
does look like Mr R is right about a PPI refund being used to reduce the debt he had built up 
on his current account. It looks like that happened  in March 2013. But once that refund  was 
applied, the records  show that Mr R still owed Natwest more than £4,000.
The records  also talk about court  action  in 2008,  so I can see why Mr R has mentioned that. 
But it supports  what  he said about  losing the case and having  to pay costs  so I cant see 
why that would have led to a court order saying he didnt  owe any money.  Theres nothing 
on the file to suggest that.
Ref: DRN42910872I also cant find any other amount paid by Mr R to Natwest, like a lump  sum from a re-
mortgage. Mr R has given  us a bank statement from 2007, which he says shows  he was 
making mortgage repayments to another lender. That is true, but it also shows  that he was 
overdrawn with Natwest by over £2,000  at that point. So it doesnt suggest to me that he had 
used a re-mortgage to pay what he owed, otherwise I would expect to see his account  in 
credit.
Its clear from both the records provided  by Natwest and what Mr R has told us that he was 
having a very difficult time around then. He was ill, and seems  to have had extensive 
significant financial problems, so it really isnt surprising that he may not remember all these 
details now. But there is no evidence to show me that Mr R paid back  what he owed Natwest 
around 2007 or 2008.
is it fair for Natwest  to use this compensation to off-set debt?
Ive made  a finding that the evidence shows that Mr R did still owe Natwest money when his 
account with them closed. But that doesnt  automatically mean I would  find that it is fair of 
Natwest to exercise the right of set-off. So Ive gone  on to think carefully about that.
Firstly, everyone  agrees that the debt was written off by Natwest in 2013. And I can see why 
that in itself might make  Mr R think he no longer owes anything. But that isnt what this term 
means. When a business writes off a debt, that means it decides that it wont  chase what 
its owed any more:  that is, it accepts that it wont get paid. It doesnt actually mean that the 
outstanding balance is erased.
I also queried with Natwest to make sure that it hadnt sold the debt on to a third party, as if it 
had I might decide it wouldnt then be fair to also use compensation to off-set. But it has sent 
me evidence  to show what the various  entries in the system  mean, and I am satisfied that it 
didnt sell this debt on. 
Mr R also hasnt mentioned any urgent priority  debt he has (such  as mortgage; rent; or 
council tax arrears, meaning he could  be facing homelessness or criminal  prosecution). 
Rather, his complaint is that he believes he doesnt owe Natwest  any money.  Having looked  
at everything,  as Ive explained,  the evidence doesnt suggest that.
Its clear from both the evidence provided  by Natwest and what  Mr R has told us that he was 
obviously having a very difficult  time about ten or so years ago. He was ill, and seems to 
have had significant financial difficulties, which Im sorry  to hear.  So it absolutely isnt 
surprising if he isnt now entirely clear on what the situation was with all his accounts or 
borrowing relationships.  But the available evidence leads me to find that it isnt unfair or 
unreasonable for Natwest to use some of this refund to off-set  outstanding debt, and so I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN42910873my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Natwest  doesnt need  to do 
anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Siobhan McBride
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4291087