K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled an enquiry about 
his home  emergency  cover (which UKI underwrites  and provides as part of his home 
insurance) and a claim under his home  insurance  policy after his property was damaged by 
a fire.
background
In December 2017, Mr Ms home was damaged by a fire which  affected his kitchen in 
particular.
Mr M tried to contact UKI but because it was a weekend he was only able to get hold of its 
Home Emergencies team. It advised  he was entitled  to receive up to £250  towards  the cost 
of one nights  accommodation under the Home  Emergency section of his policy. It said he 
should contact  UKI to make a claim under his buildings and contents cover  when the office 
re-opened on the Monday.
In the event, Mr M didnt  take advantage of this emergency cover. He made a claim to UKI 
when its main office re-opened. UKI agreed to look for alternative accommodation (AA) for 
Mr M and his family while the claim was ongoing.  In the meantime, it arranged  for an 
electrician and a cleaning company to attend the property.
Shortly after UKI began looking  for suitable AA, Mr M told it he would prefer  to have a 
caravan on his driveway to accommodate him and his family. UKI duly arranged this and 
Mr M and his family were  able to move in to the caravan  eleven  days  after the fire.
After moving in to the caravan, Mr M complained to UKI about its handling of the claim.  He 
thought it had provided a poor service  in respect of his AA; that it had failed to contact him 
about his claim; and that its Home Emergencies team had given him wrong  information  
about his AA entitlement.
UKI issued  its final response to the complaint on 28 December 2017. It didnt uphold his 
complaint. It was satisfied  it had provided  an acceptable standard  of service in respect of 
providing him with AA and in its communication with him. It considered the information he 
had been given about AA entitlement under his Home Emergency cover was correct. It 
nonetheless offered him £100  as an apology.
In September  2018, Mr M again complained to UKI. He again  said he believed hed been 
given wrong advice by the Home Emergencies team and that UKI took too long to provide 
safe and habitable AA for him and his family following the fire. He also said that an 
electrician had failed  to attend  the property on two occasions in the week  following the fire 
and that a cleaning company attended  but were unable to clean all rooms  until his move  to 
the caravan had taken place.
UKI issued  its final response to the complaint in October 2018. It said it had addressed  his 
complaint about  the advice from the Home Emergencies team and about the provision of AA 
in its previous final response. In respect  of the electrician, it said there was no evidence that 
any appointments had been missed. In respect of the cleaning  company, it said the company 
had agreed to return to clean the remainder of the property once Mr M had moved out 
because some of the rooms at the time were packed with contents.  It therefore didnt uphold 
his complaint
Ref: DRN47483512Mr M was unhappy at UKIs response. He referred  his complaint to us.
Our investigator said we were unable to consider the complaint about  the advice from the 
Home Emergencies team  and the handling  of the AA because Mr M had left it too long to 
raise these matters following UKIs  initial final response letter. In respect of the other  points 
which Mr M had raised, our investigator recommended  that the complaint should  not be 
upheld. She didnt think UKI had done anything wrong.
Mr M didnt  accept the investigators findings.  He said hed been  left in his property for 
eleven days following  the fire without  any facilities.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me first of all clarify the extent to which I am able to consider Mr Ms complaint. The 
extent of my jurisdiction to consider a complaint  is determined by the application of the
Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP Rules) set out in the Financial  Conduct  Authoritys 
handbook.
DISP 2.8.2R states that, unless the business  has agreed:
The Ombudsman  cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service:
(1)more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the 
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary resolution 
communication ;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in 
DISP 2.8.2R  was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Mr Ms main  objection  seems to be that he believes he should have been  moved  to AA much 
sooner rather than be left in his fire-damaged house for eleven days. However, Mr M 
previously complained to UKI about  the advice he received from the Home  Emergencies 
team and about the way his AA was handled.  UKI issued its final response  on 28 December  
2017. This gave  Mr M until 28 June  2018 to refer the complaint  to us. The complaint wasnt 
referred until March 2019 and UKI hasnt consented  to waiving the time limit. Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest Mr Ms failure to comply with the time limit was due to exceptional  
circumstances. I therefore  conclude that I am unable to consider Mr Ms complaint about 
these issues, which effectively are the same  as his main objection  now, because  he hasnt 
brought the complaint to us in time and it is therefore outside my jurisdiction.
I am able to consider the specific points  which Mr M raised in his later complaint  to UKI 
which werent incorporated in his original  complaint. These relate to the electrician not 
Ref: DRN47483513turning up for appointments  and the cleaning companys actions. However,  I dont uphold  his 
complaint in respect of these matters. I shall explain why.
UKIs claim  notes record that the electrician was appointed  specifically to determine whether 
the boiler needed replacing. The electrician attended the property three days after the fire 
and confirmed that it did need  replacing.  One week later,  UKI asked  the electrician to quote  
for the cost of a replacement boiler. The two dates when Mr M said the electrician  failed to 
attend were between these two dates but UKI has pointed out that there would have been 
no need for the electrician to re-attend the property until a replacement boiler and associated 
works had been  authorised. I consider this explanation is reasonable. I have  no reasonable 
grounds to think that the electrician missed any appointments.
UKIs claim  notes also show that the cleaning company began decontamination work at the 
property in the week following the fire. However, as Mr M and his family were  still living  
there, and some of the affected rooms were packed out with contents  as they were being 
used as a temporary  kitchen, it was agreed that the cleaning company would return to deal 
with these rooms  once Mr M had moved  to AA. I consider that this was reasonable.
my final decision
I cant consider Mr Ms complaint about  the advice he received from the Home  Emergencies 
team and UKIs handling  of his move to AA because he didnt refer his complaint to us in 
time.
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision on the part of Mr Ms complaint which I can 
consider is that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4748351