K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs D say Thesis  Asset Management Limited (Thesis) mismanaged the transfers of 
their portfolios to the transferee firm (the transferee). They  claim compensation for trouble  
and upset and for financial loss.
background 
There is history  behind  the transfers  that explains the circumstances which led to them.  The 
transfers happened after Mr and (it appears) Mrs D had been clients of Thesis for around  21 
years and they involved movement of assets in specie and of cash  holdings. The relevant 
circumstances include the departure of Mr and Mrs Ds dedicated  investment manager  
around December  2017  after which they say their portfolios  were  broadly left unmanaged  
and, thereafter,  Thesis decision to end its service to Mr and Mrs D, which  resulted in the 
need to transfer  their portfolios (holding a total value of over £2 million). 
Thesis says transfer fees were waived and that the same applied  to management fees from 
when the transfer request was made and onwards. With regards to the transfers, a summary 
of key events (in 2018)  is as follows:
On 16 April Mr and Mrs D reached  an agreement with the transferee  to set the 
transfers in motion and on 21 April their transfer request was submitted to Thesis. 
The transfers featured a jointly held general portfolio (GP), individually held 
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) and individually held Self Invested  Personal 
Pensions (SIPPs). They say they were assured by Thesis and the transferee that 
the transfer process should take between four to six weeks to conclusion.
By 25 April Thesis  had been  contacted by the transferee and by 30 April Mr D says 
he had received confirmation that the transferee  had set up the requisite accounts for 
receipt of the portfolios. The transferee  says Thesis provided valuation information on 
the GP on 2 May; that it (the transferee)  made an error in the documentation it sent 
to Thesis for the ISAs so it had to resubmit that documentation on 4 May; that it 
contacted the SIPP  administrator on 27 April, obtained valuation  information from it 
on 4 May and that transfer instructions for the SIPPs were given to Thesis on 1 June.
In early June progress in the transfers  began, the transferee wrote to Mr D to confirm 
receipt of Crest stocks in the GP.
By late July  and based on the transferees update to Mr D  28 holdings from the 
GP had been transferred but six remained outstanding; no holding had been 
transferred from Mr Ds ISA, nine were expected shortly at the time,  15 were 
considered to be outstanding and a cash holding was also outstanding; 11 holdings  
had been transferred  from Mrs Ds ISA, six were outstanding and a cash  holding  was 
also outstanding;  45 holdings had been transferred from Mr Ds SIPP, nine were 
outstanding and a cash holding was also outstanding; and 48 holdings had been 
transferred from Mrs Ds SIPP,  five were outstanding and a cash holding was 
outstanding.
By early August  and based on the transferees  update to Mr D  around 17% of the 
GP transfer remained unsettled; around 7% of Mr Ds ISA transfer remained 
unsettled but the cash holding within it had been  transferred; around 21% of Mrs Ds 
ISA transfer remained  unsettled  but the cash  holding within it had been transferred; 
around 19% of Mr Ds SIPP transfer remained unsettled, as was the cash  holding 
transfer; and around 7% of Mrs Ds SIPP transfer  remained unsettled, as was the 
cash holding. The update said Thesis was broadly  responsible  for the outstanding 
assets at this time and confirms that the transferee  was engaged in chasing 
Ref: DRN48107392progress. Around  the same  time Mr and Mrs D complained about the time the 
transfer process had taken and in order to progress matters  they also appointed an 
Independent Financial Adviser (IFA), particularly to help with the SIPPs  transfers.
By 14 August   and based  on the transferees update  to Mr D  transfer of the GP 
was completed;  transfer of two holdings  from Mr Ds ISA remained outstanding; 
transfer of Mrs Ds ISA was completed; transfer  of four holdings from Mr Ds SIPP  
remained outstanding;  and transfer of Mrs Ds SIPP  was completed. The update  said 
Thesis errors played a role in the outstanding  holdings.
By September, the transfer process for all the portfolios (including the cash  holdings)  
was completed.
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  cited, in the main, the five months that were taken to complete the 
transfer process and the errors/mismanagement committed by Thesis and the transferee. 
Their complaint was presented to both Thesis and the transferee. 
They reached an agreed settlement with the transferee based on a payment of £6,000  for 
the trouble and upset caused to them  by the transfer  process,  mindful of particular trouble 
caused in the context  of Mr Ds disability, and a waiver of management fees for around a 
year  broadly  from the transferees receipt  of the portfolios around August 2018 and up to 
August 2019.  The value  of this waiver is around £25,000. In the main, the transferee 
accepted some responsibility in the matter,  argued that Thesis was mainly  to blame, 
disagreed with Mr and Mrs D claim for financial loss but agreed  with the above settlement.
No such agreed settlement was reached between  Thesis  and Mr and Mrs D, hence referral 
of the complaint against it to this service. One of our investigators considered the complaint  
and, in the main, said the following:
The complaint  is about the transfer  process (including claims for distress  and for 
financial loss) but there  are also historical complaints (about management fees and 
alleged disability discrimination) which  are out of time and will not be addressed. 
There is also an issue about  a 2017/2018 tax pack which did not feature in the 
complaint that was referred to this service. This too will not be addressed.
The size of the total portfolio and the complexity (and administration) associated  with 
it was such that the transfer timescale of four to six weeks  would  have been  unlikely; 
both Thesis and the transferee have taken responsibility for what  they consider to be 
their roles in the delays;  Thesis  was partly  responsible for the delays but not to the 
extent claimed within  the complaint; distress caused to Mr and Mrs D has been noted 
and the same applies to the matter of them not receiving the level of service they 
expected; however,  in taking a complete view on the complaint (including the total 
settlement obtained from the transferee) Thesis offer of £500 for its role in the delays 
and for poor customer service is reasonable.
Mr D disagreed with this outcome, with evident  strength of feeling. In the main,  he said:
The idea of having to pursue the tax pack issue afresh ought  to have been brought to 
his attention at an earlier point.
It is wrong to view Thesis role in the matter based on when it transferred out assets, 
its responsibility began  earlier  (in terms of its delays before transferring assets out) 
and continued  to the points of settlement (in terms of settlements which  were  
hindered due to its errors and/or documentation  outstanding from it). Thesis  should 
have initiated  transfer of all the assets at the same  time and at the outset (upon 
Ref: DRN48107393receipt of the transfer request(s)), instead  it wrongly initiated the transfers in a 
piecemeal fashion.
Thesis inactivity  caused a delay to the SIPP administrators efforts, caused  a delay 
to the transfer  of cash holdings across the portfolios  and caused him (and Mrs D) the 
additional expense  of engaging the IFA to assist  in achieving progress in the matter.
It is wrong to dismiss their case for financial loss (compensation); they had assets  
(with a heavy weighting in the stock market)  which were actively managed; their point 
is not about their assets remaining in the market because they were transferred in 
specie, it is about the absence  of active management (of those assets) for at least 
five months (longer if calculated from December 2017 when  they lost their investment 
manager); those assets had historically  outperformed market benchmarks  so, in this 
context, a financial loss was incurred from assets  unmanaged over five months.
It is wrong to view compensation to them in the context of the settlement they 
obtained from the transferee   the settlement  one company makes should not 
have a bearing on what the other  company is liable for. That settlement  also does 
not extend to their claim for financial loss, so that remains a claim to be addressed. 
Thesis offer is unreasonable, insufficient  and it does not take into account  the costs  
incurred in engaging the IFA, the effects  of them being denied access to the SIPPs  
for five months, the impact (in their personal lives) caused by the problems it created 
and the fact that they were subject  to such detriments despite  having been clients  of 
Thesis for over 21 years. In this overall  context,  Thesis  should pay them at least  
£6,000 and should be instructed to resolve  the tax pack issue.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The historical and tax pack issues
I address neither issue. The former  appears  to have been addressed by Thesis in 2018 but 
was not referred  to us within six months thereafter  this being the regulators time limit for 
such referrals.  The latter does not appear to have been part of the complaint referred to us.
Responsibility for the transfer process
There appears to be common ground   shared  between the parties to the complaint, the 
transferee and the investigator  that both Thesis and the transferee shared responsibility  for 
the events in the transfer process. The dispute relates to the size of each  firms share of that 
responsibility. 
I have taken on board the arguments  competently presented  by Mr D and the documents  
relevant to those  arguments. I accept that each firms responsibility must be assessed on the 
basis of what it did and/or did not do in the process  and that, in some respect, this can mean 
Thesis becomes responsible for some of the delays between its receipt of transfer requests 
in late April and when  it initiated the relevant transfers; and that it can also mean Thesis 
becomes responsible for some of the settlement delays where its errors or documents it was 
yet to provide  (or properly  provide) for transferred assets caused such delays.
Ref: DRN48107394Overall, evidence from the transferees  updates  to Mr D appears  to be credible.  They  
present an overall  picture in which  both firms  (Thesis and the transferee) were broadly 
equally responsible  for the transfer  events  (actions and/or inactions related to the invested  
assets) between May and July; Thesis  appears to have been a notable cause of the delays 
in settlements between  late July and late August (extending to September); and, on balance, 
Thesis appears to have  been the main  cause of the delay in transferring the cash holdings 
across the portfolios. Despite this finding,  and for reasons given below, I share  the 
investigators conclusions  on compensation (for trouble and upset, and financial loss).
The claim for financial loss
I understand this claim and the arguments Mr D has made in support of it. Within those 
arguments he reminded this service of its objective  in the event of a successful complaint  
to return the complainant as much as possible to a pre-detriment position.  I agree, but it is 
also incumbent upon this service  to be satisfied that there is a credible basis  for any 
compensation that is awarded.
I accept evidence that there were assets within the overall portfolio which  were  under active 
management and I also accept the implication  that the transferee would have resumed such  
active management upon completion of the transfer(s).
It is indeed arguable that Mr and Mrs Ds portfolios would have behaved differently if active 
management (of those  assets which were under such management)  had resumed  earlier 
than August or September  2018. Mr D suggests  that their claim for lost growth can fairly  be 
judged on the basis of the portfolios past exceptional performance, but I disagree. It is 
widely recognised,  in investments, that past performance is not automatically an indication of 
future performance so, on balance,  I consider  it unsafe to assume the portfolios would have 
appreciated in value  in a manner that mirrored  any past growth they produced. The key point 
I address further  below adds support to this conclusion.
I also do not consider  it reasonable to assess how the portfolios would have behaved based 
on a benchmark  comparison. It is within Mr Ds argument that the portfolios were  not 
supposed to track (in an unmanaged sense) any sort of index or benchmark. They were 
actively managed, with what appears to have been  a high-risk profile,  and they had behaved 
differently to indexes  and benchmarks. They were not designed to have correlation with a 
benchmark, so a benchmark  comparison would  be inappropriate.
A key point is that even though the portfolios would arguably have behaved  differently if 
active management had resumed earlier, it does not follow that they would have made the 
gains asserted by Mr D. Given the high-risk investment strategy used for the portfolios  and 
despite any past good performance they produced   it remained possible that, under an 
earlier resumption of active  management,  they could have performed poorly. 
I do not suggest this would  have  happened and I do not make a finding on this in either way. 
It does not appear  possible to make a finding, on balance, about how the portfolios would 
have been actively  managed if such active management begun earlier than August or 
September 2018; it does not appear  possible to make a finding on whether  (or not) gains 
would have been made in the portfolios with earlier resumption of active management; and, 
even if such gains could  have been  made, it does not appear possible to quantify  such  an 
unknown element, especially as benchmark comparisons would not assist (for the reasons 
given above). Overall  and on balance, I do not consider  that Mr and Mrs Ds claim for 
financial loss has been established.
Ref: DRN48107395The claim for trouble  and upset
In the context of a successful complaint, this services approach towards claims for trouble, 
upset, distress and/or inconvenience is to address any of these effects which  are caused  
upon the complainant by detriments arising  from the complaint. It is important to note that 
our awards for trouble  and upset are not intended to be a punitive measure. Our focus is 
mainly on quantifying   in compensatory terms  the above effects faced by a complainant 
arising from the complaint, not on the notion of punishing the firm for those effects.
This was the approach the investigator used and explained in her view.  Mr and Mrs D were 
subjected to a poor experience arising from a mismanaged and delayed transfer process. 
Thesis and the transferee share responsibility for that experience, but the experience 
remains singular  it is not duplicated  by virtue of responsibility being shared between two 
firms. The source of the trouble, upset, distress  and inconvenience they faced  that is, the 
mismanaged and delayed  transfer  process  is also singular and is not duplicated  by virtue 
of Thesis and the transferee sharing responsibility. The basis  for compensation (for the 
trouble, upset, distress  and inconvenience  they endured)  is the same.
In the above context, and thus far, Mr and Mrs D have received £6,000 and a waiver of 
management fees to the value of around £25,000 as compensation for all the trouble and 
upset caused  to them by the mismanaged and delayed transfer process.  In addition, Thesis 
has offered what appears to be its contribution  of £500 for the same  purpose. These 
elements amount to a significant total amount of compensation for trouble  and upset. The 
total amount is notably not insufficient. I have not seen  evidence to persuade me that they 
should receive more.  I conclude  that what they have received thus far (and with the addition  
of Thesis offer) resolves their claim(s) for trouble and upset and it also caters for the matter 
of their engagement of the IFA. Overall and on balance, I endorse Thesis  offer of £500.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint and I order  
Thesis Asset  Management Limited  to pay them  £500 for the trouble and upset caused to 
them. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask 
Mr and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4810739