K820x#14complaint
Ms C says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Ms C took out in 1995. It was 
sold to her in store.  Its been  agreed  in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should  take 
responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things  simple,  Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint was passed to me. I issued my provisional decision in February  2019  and 
explained I was thinking of coming  to a different  outcome  to the adjudicator. In summary  I 
thought Ms C wouldnt have been  restricted by any of the exclusions or limitations on the 
policy. 
Heres what I said:
FICL and Ms C agree  the policy  was sold in store. During that interaction  FICL should have 
made sure Ms C was aware the policy was optional. Ms C says the PPI was added to her 
account without  her consent.  
Its not possible for me to know exactly what was said at the time this policy  was taken out. 
So I have  based  my decision on the evidence  thats available. Looking  at a copy of Ms Cs 
application form Ive been given, I can see it asks applicants to tick a box if they want  the 
PPI. 
On the form, the box has been selected  and Ms C has signed the application.  And Ms C 
would have the opportunity to review and query  anything on the application she wasnt  sure 
about before  she signed it. So I think its most  likely FICL made  Ms C aware she had a 
choice about buying the policy  and she chose to take it. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms C so it didnt  have  to check  if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Ms C got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. Ms C says she had a medical condition at the time of sale and our adjudicator  thought 
this condition was something that wouldve made  it difficult for Ms C to make a claim on the 
policy, so they upheld her complaint. 
I can see we asked  Ms C for more  details around her condition  but shes not been  able to 
give us very much. So Ive thought carefully about the limited information Ms C has told us 
about her condition. Having done this, I dont have enough evidence that Ms C would have 
thought this would be the main reasons she might have needed to claim on the policy  in the 
future. And the policy  wouldve covered her for other things. 
And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the other exclusions or limits on the PPI cover.  
Ref: DRN45958112Ms C says she didnt have any sick pay benefits from her employer. So I think  it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Ms C has said including what  shes said about her 
husband being able to help out if she wasnt able to make  her repayments. I dont doubt that 
he wouldve wanted  to help, but peoples  situations  can change. So I dont think  Ms C 
couldve necessarily relied  on this help. So this point  doesnt change  my decision. And 
overall I dont think Ms C has lost out by anything FICL  might  have done wrong. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments or information  before I reached my final 
decision. Ive not had anything further  from anyone. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Cs case.  
As neither Ms C nor FICL  have me anything else they wanted  me to think about, Ive 
reached the same conclusion as my provisional decision for the same reasons.  I dont think 
Ms C wouldve  been  caught by any of the exclusions or limitations  on the policy  and she 
would have found it useful given her circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4595811