K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
mortgage endowment  policy and a buildings and contents insurance policy when they took 
out their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with Halifax in July 1990. At the same time, they say they 
were also sold a mortgage endowment policy. However, they complain  that the policy  was 
mis-sold as it was never  explained  to them, and they were simply told that it would pay their 
mortgage off at the end of the 25 year term, which it failed to do.
Mr and Mrs M also complain that they were  mis-sold  buildings and contents insurance, as 
they were unaware  it had been added to their mortgage account, and say they didnt need it 
as they already had buildings and contents  insurance in place. As a result,  they want Halifax  
to refund all the premiums  theyve paid.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. She didnt consider that Halifax  
could fairly  be held responsible for selling  the mortgage endowment policy  as it was sold by 
a different business.  And she didnt think the buildings  and contents  insurance had been 
mis-sold as it had clearly  been selected  on Mr and Mrs Ms application form, and there was 
also no evidence to suggest that they did have any other insurance in place at the time. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed, so the matter had been passed to me to determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so, Ive decided  not to uphold it. 
In terms of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  about the mis-selling of their mortgage endowment 
policy, Halifax have explained  that the policy was sold by Countrywide plc (formerly Hambro). 
As a result, Mr and Mrs M should  direct  their concerns to this organisation, and I understand 
that Halifax have  already  requested that they investigate Mr and Mrs Ms concerns about the 
selling of the mortgage endowment policy. But given that there  is little evidence to suggest  
the policy was sold by Halifax, I agree that this is not something they can be held responsible  
for, so I will not be commenting on the matter any further within  this decision. 
In terms of the buildings and contents insurance, Mr and Mrs M say this was mis-sold 
alongside their mortgage and added  without their knowledge. Given  that the sale took place 
almost 30 years ago, theres little evidence available other than the application forms that 
were completed by Mr and Mrs M at the time. So I have  to consider what I think is most likely 
to have been the case based on the little evidence that is available  from the point of sale.
Ive considered the paperwork that was completed at the time. And I can see that an 
application form has been completed for the insurance cover,  with a specific level of cover 
selected, and information provided  about Mr and Mrs Ms property. So I think its more likely 
than not that a discussion was had with them about the insurance, and that they chose  to 
take it. The insurance application  is also signed by Mr and Mrs M. So on balance,  I dont 
think its likely they wouldnt have known  that they were agreeing to the buildings  and 
contents insurance.
Ref: DRN41483482I also note that buildings insurance was a condition of the mortgage. Mr and Mrs M havent  
been able to demonstrate  that they did actually have another  buildings insurance policy in 
place at the time they took out the mortgage.  So in the circumstances, I do not think there  is 
enough evidence  to suggest that the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 December  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4148348