K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  declined his travel insurance claim and about 
its service. My references to Aviva  include its agents.
background
Mr C lost his night  mouth guard on a plane. On 17 October 2018 Mr C claimed  on his travel  
insurance. Aviva told him to check with the airline and call back. Mr C contacted the airports  
loss property department and on 1 November he called Aviva to confirm the loss. 
Mr C complains that he received an inaccurate  email from Aviva which referred  to two forms 
attached when there was only one. He says he called Aviva at least  five times, often waiting 
on hold for over 30 minutes, chasing  his claim. Its online system said an email  had been  
sent to him on 7 November which he hadnt  received  so he called it on 8 November. Aviva 
read him the email which said his claim had been  agreed and would be paid in full. However,  
the next day Aviva sent an email saying his claim had been declined.  
Aviva declined the claim as the policy didnt cover medical or dental fittings. Mr Cs night 
mouth guard was custom made and fitted by a dentist. It accepted  its service  had given Mr C 
some inconvenience  and offered £50 compensation, which he declined.
Mr C complained to us. He says medical  or dental fittings isnt defined in the policy and 
there were no examples.  He thinks the policy  wording is ambiguous  so should be read in his 
favour. He wants his claim paid.
Our investigator thought Aviva had fairly  declined the claim and its offer of £50 
compensation for poor service was fair.
Mr C disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans  decision. He believes the exclusion refers to 
dental fixtures (for example dentures) and not fittings. He says night mouth guards are 
available without any dentist's involvement and it wasnt fair for his claim to only be declined 
due to his dentists involvement.  He thought the exclusion  wording  should  have been clearer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy is clear under the heading What is not covered under Personal  Money  and 
Personal Baggage that medical  or dental fittings are excluded.
Theres no definition of dental fittings or examples in the policy and I dont think  there  needs  
to be. An insurer  doesnt need  to provide definitions for everything in the policy.
I dont think dental  fittings is ambiguous  wording. Mr Cs night mouth guard was created for 
him and fitted  to him by a dentist. Aviva can fairly say that Mr Cs night mouth  guard was a 
dental fitting and it would  have been  reasonable for Mr C to understand that his night mouth 
guard was a dental fitting. 
Ref: DRN46438052Mr C comments  that one can buy a night mouth guard without a dentists involvement. That 
is possible but his night mouth  guard  was a bespoke fitting by a dentist, not comparable with 
a much cheaper general mouth guard. As Ive said, the night mouth  guard Mr C lost was a 
dental fitting which the policy made  clear  wasnt covered. 
Aviva fairly and reasonably declined the claim.
Aviva accepted there were some issues with its service.  It could  have told Mr C when he first 
called that his claim wasnt covered. Also it incorrectly  told him the claim had been accepted, 
although the next day Mr C received an email saying the claim had been declined  and why. 
Mr C did some suffer a loss of expectation but Aviva quickly corrected its mistake  the next 
day. 
 
In other  respects Aviva handled Mr Cs claim reasonably. It took from 1 to 8 November to 
decide Mr Cs claim so there was no delay.  Aviva isnt responsible for the amount of times  
Mr C called it. There was no need for him to call so often when the claim had only been  with 
it a few days. I dont  think Avivas email inaccurately referring  to two forms attached caused 
Mr C trouble or upset  at a level where  I would award  compensation and the error had no 
effect on the claim.
Im satisfied that Avivas  offer of £50 compensation for his inconvenience was a fair amount. 
If Mr C wants to now accept the offer he should contact Aviva direct.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4643805