K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that Close Brothers  Limited has not refunded part of her monthly payments 
to recognise loss of use of a car.
background
In November 2018 Mrs M bought a car funded  by a conditional sale agreement with Close  
Brothers. She encountered  a number of problems and contacted Close  Brothers within 30 
days asking to reject it.
As she had received no resolution she brought a complaint to this service on 1 February.  
On 6 March the business agreed  to the rejection and arranged  to take the car back, settle  
the finance and return her deposit less £100  to cover damage  to a bumper. It retained the 
two monthly instalments of £149 she had paid. Mrs M felt that Close  Brothers had delayed 
matters and so it should  refund these. 
Close Brothers said that Mrs M had made use of the car during the period her complaint was 
resolved and it would not be right to refund her payments. It noted  she had done 1,910 
miles. Mrs M said she had to use her car daily for work, but didnt  use it at weekends.  She 
said she had only been told on 1 February to limit her use.
The investigator thought she had suffered impaired use and that she should  be 
compensated £200 for this and for the trouble and upset she had experienced. Close  
Brothers didnt agree  and said that Mrs M had effective use of the car until it was collected. It 
said that from the point  the car was collected  her complaint was settled in two weeks.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only issue I have to decide in this complaint is the matter of compensation. However, 
first I must recognise that Close Brothers did what I consider to be the right thing in 
accepting rejection.
Mrs M has had use of the car, but I can see from her profession it was essential  that she use 
it. She has said that she didnt use it at weekends due to the problems she faced.  When she 
first brought her complaint  to this service  she set out detailed  timeline  of events and I am 
satisfied that her recollection of what happened  is accurate  and credible. Therefore I can 
accept that although she did use the car she limited  that use. 
I also note that she made frequent contact  with the dealer in an effort  to get the car repaired 
without success.  This included leaving  the car with it and using a taxi to get to work. In 
addition to the issue with the diesel particulate  filter and the warning light coming on she 
didnt have a working satnav.  All of these  failings and the delays in Close Brothers  agreeing 
to the rejection merit compensation.
Close Brothers thinks £50 is sufficient and while I recognise its point of view I have  
concluded that figure of £200 suggested  by the investigator is fair. This reflects not only the 
limited use, but the trouble and upset Mrs M encountered in trying to get the matter resolved. 
Ref: DRN43286242my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Close Brothers  Limited to pay 
Mrs M compensation of £200. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4328624