K821x#15complaint
Mr D, on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs D, says Nationwide  Building  Society  (trading as 
Chelsea Building Society) mis-sold Mrs D a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1991 by Mrs D.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Nationwide  disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Nationwide has said but Ive still decided to uphold this complaint. This 
is because I dont think Nationwide made  it clear the PPI was optional. Mr D says that, when 
selling the PPI to Mrs D, Nationwide pushed  for the sale of PPI.  And I have looked at the 
mortgage application form and this has a section headed Payment Protection Insurance. It 
says:
The Society will arrange sickness, accident and unemployment insurance on behalf 
of the first-named  applicant to cover the original mortgage payment
In the same  section it then says, beside two boxes:
Please tick if you require the second  named applicant to be insured (Note:  only one 
applicant can be covered).
Please tick if you do not require or are not eligible for the cover
Handwritten on this part of the form are the words  £200 cover.  There  is no option to tick to 
show that you do want the PPI. 
Nationwide says this shows  that Mrs D was given the option of declining the policy  by ticking  
the box. It also says given that the section has annotated with £200  COVER also shows 
that the policy was discussed as a separate product and [Mrs D] actively [chose] to take 
insurance. 
I dont agree with Nationwide.  The form presents an assumption that the customer  would 
take PPI saying that The Society will arrange not that it can arrange.  And the customer  
would have to actively work against that assumption by opting  out of the cover.  Instead there 
is no evidence that Mrs D actually wanted  or agreed to the PPI. The words £200 cover  
show no more than that this was the amount deemed by Nationwide to be appropriate to her 
circumstances  and there is nothing to say whether this wasnt  written by a member of staff 
after Mrs D had signed to apply for the mortgage. 
Ref: DRN44481602I think its more likely than not that the PPI was sold unfairly and I think Mrs D lost out as a 
result.
fair compensation
Nationwide should  put the estate of the late Mrs D in the position  it would be in now if PPI 
had not been taken  out. Nationwide should:
Pay the estate  of Mrs D the amount that was paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when it was paid until the estate gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mrs D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide  can take off what  
she got for the claim from the amount it owes the estate.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide Building Society  to take off tax from this 
interest. Nationwide must give the estate of Mrs D a certificate  showing  how much tax its 
taken off if requested.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint  made by Mr D on behalf of the estate 
of the late Mrs D.
I require Nationwide  Building Society  to pay the estate of Mrs D compensation in accordance 
with the calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D on behalf  of 
the estate of Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2019. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4448160