K820x#14complaint
Mrs Hs complaint against Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco) is that it lent to her 
irresponsibly, causing her financial  difficulties.
background
In November 2015 Mrs H told out a loan for £12,500  with Tesco.  Seven months  later she 
called up to ask about a consolidation  loan. Matters such as how much  could borrow, APR 
and terms of loans,  were all discussed. But she was also advised she couldnt apply for this 
loan until eight payments had been  successfully received on her 2015  loan. The following 
week this was done. So Mrs H went online,  applied for, and was accepted, for a 
consolidation loan of £35,000. She received  the funds in September  2016.
Mrs H says shes been in financial difficulties since before the 2016  loan. She says that the 
consolidation loan shouldnt  have  been  given to her as she was already so deep in debt, and 
spending like never before,  and that this loan has made her, and her husbands,  financial 
positions so much worse.  She says theyve had to sell their home.
She says Tesco  didnt do proper credit and affordability checks  before granting such  a large 
loan, and also that for some years shes been  suffering from serious  mental health 
conditions, which meant that at the time she took out the loan, and spent the money,  she 
wasnt fully aware of what she was doing.
Mrs H believed Tesco had loaned to her irresponsibly,  so she complained  and asked if it 
would write-off her remaining debt. At that time it was circa £45,000.
Tesco replied saying  it didnt accept it had done anything  wrong,  and that it wouldnt be 
writing the loan off. It said that instead it wanted to reach a repayment  agreement with 
Mrs H.
Mrs H wasnt happy with this, so she brought her complaint to our service.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and obtained  further information from both parties, 
before coming  to her conclusion. She concluded  that Tesco hadnt treated Mrs H poorly,  or 
irresponsibly, when it gave her the 2016 loan. And that she couldnt uphold  the complaint. 
She did however  note the extent of Mrs Hs financial and medical  problems, and ensured 
Tesco was also aware of these.
After this, our Investigator tried to broker a settlement agreement  between the two parties. 
Mrs H offered £25,000 (against a debt of circa  £47,000), but Tesco  said that it could only 
consider this offer once it had full income and expenditure,  and some other pertinent 
information, from Mrs H to ensure  affordability. 
Mrs H refused to provide  this. She said she felt it was unduly invasive, and that other  
creditors had been able to agree sensible repayments without all of this. 
She also said she didnt  accept that the 2016 call she had with Tesco  discussed  the loan she 
took out shortly  thereafter. She felt this conversation, and the online application she made 
the following  week, were  two separate events. And that the call shouldnt be taken  into 
account.
Ref: DRN44757022As the parties still havent  managed to reach an agreement, the complaints come  to me for 
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that we cant uphold this complaint. I 
say this because  theres  not enough  evidence to persuade me that Tesco  loaned  to Mrs H 
irresponsibly. 
Im aware this decision will come as a great disappointment to Mrs H. Its clear that shes 
had a number  of challenges  to deal with in recent years, and that this has taken a further toll 
on her health  particularly given her existing vulnerability. And Im sorry to hear how bad 
things have become.  Ive no doubt its been  a stressful and upsetting time. 
My role is to reach an outcome based on the evidence, that I think  is fair to both parties. 
While Mrs H has had a difficult time personally,  Tesco has also suffered in that its loaned  a 
large sum of money that still hasnt been paid back.  And I need to take all the relevant 
factors, affecting both parties, into account in my decision.
Im conscious that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties,  and in 
my own words. Im not necessarily going  to respond to each individual point made to give my 
findings. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive focussed on what I think  are the 
key issues here, as the rules governing our service allow  me to do. This reflects  the informal  
nature of our service as a free alternative  to the courts. 
So if theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored  it. I havent. Ive 
considered each and every  submission very carefully.  Rather, its because  Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument  to be able to reach  what I think is the 
right outcome to this complaint.
Do I think Tesco loaned  irresponsibly to Mrs H?
Im afraid Im not persuaded it did. I accept it was a large loan, and that the application 
process itself (online) seemed incredibly easy.  But this process  belies all the due diligence  
that would  have been done behind the scenes. An underwriting process, security checks, 
etc, would all have  been carried out. This would be based not only on what Tesco already 
knew about Mrs H (noting she had an existing loan and had paid it satisfactorily for 
8 months), but also checks it would do with the relevant  credit  references agencies. 
Mrs H says that her existing borrowings  namely credit cards   had seen a previously 
unseen spike in the months  leading up to her applying for the 2016 Tesco loan.  And that 
Tesco should have  noticed this, and not allowed her to borrow further. 
But I dont think thats fair. Mrs H herself admitted this was a consolidation loan, to 
consolidate her existing debt. That meant her existing Tesco loan, and her other borrowings. 
Shes now told us that the money  wasnt used  for consolidation purposes afterall, but I cant  
hold Tesco responsible for that. The purpose  of consolidation is to make  the repayment  of 
debts more managable and affordable, and more likely to succeed.  I see no reason why, had 
Ref: DRN44757023the loan been used  for the purpose for which it was taken out, that wouldnt have led to that 
happening. 
I dont think it was the loan that was unaffordable. It seems to me that its because  the 
money borrowed wasnt used to repay existing debts - which  meant that instead of making 
debt repayments  cheaper,  it went the opposite  way. Now obviously this money has to have 
been spent on something.  Mrs H suggests that due to her illnesses she cant  remember 
what. But she also mentions that it was used to refurbish  one of the additional  properties  she 
owned, in order  it could be sold on for a profit. She says that it didnt subsequently  sell, so 
she wasnt able to recoup that money, although  Im not aware of the current position.  If it 
went into the property,  then its either been  realised at sale,  or still exists  within  the property 
value. 
I think this is relevant. Whether  or not Tesco was irresponsible (which I havent  found it was), 
the money was still spent,  and presumably Mrs H benefitted from this somehow. So I dont 
think its fair for Mrs H to seek  that the debt be written-off.
While I was encouraged  to see that Mrs H made a settlement offer of £25,000 to Tesco, I 
was disappointed at her reaction when it tried to do exactly the due diligence  she was critical 
of it not carrying out for the loan in 2016. I dont  think its unreasonable  for Tesco  to want to 
know what Mrs Hs financial  position is before considering writing-off  a multiple-thousand 
pound portion of a debt. I dont agree that what its asking it unduly onerous.  
I do expect Tesco to deal with Mrs H in a positive and sympathetic way, given what it now 
knows, in particular with regard to her health. But to that extent, I agree  that Tesco is entitled 
to ask for further  information and evidence.  In order to decide  what to do about the balance  
remaining due, it needs to know the full story  so it can assess  future  affordability. I think this 
is reasonable.
Im sorry  this decision wont fully resolve matters,  and do hope that some constructive 
discussions can now take place between the parties. I do hope Ive explained  why I think  this 
is the only fair outcome I can reach on the evidence available.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4475702