K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that RAC Motoring Services renewed his motor  breakdown  policy without 
his consent.
background
In May 2016  Mr O contacted RAC after he locked  his keys inside his car. He says he only 
bought the policy so he could get into the car, and didnt  agree to have it automatically 
renewed. Mr O says he didnt get a welcome  pack from RAC with the policy documents,  nor 
did he get RACs letters in 2017 and 2018 prior to the renewals. He says he only found out 
the policy had been renewed  when he needed breakdown  cover  in 2018 and sought  quotes.
One of our investigators  assessed Mr Os complaint. He didnt think RAC  had done  anything 
wrong. He noted  that during the call in which the policy was set up the advisor told Mr O it 
would be renewed  automatically unless Mr O told RAC he didnt want that to happen. The 
investigator said he thought RAC had sent out the renewal documents  even though Mr O 
didnt get them. He noted that RAC had offered to refund part of Mr Os 2018 premium.    
Mr O said when he bought the policy he was distressed.  He said the car hed locked the 
keys in was due to be sold abroad  within three  months, so he didnt need  automatic renewal. 
He said that he only wanted help to get into the car and get home that day.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
Ive listened to the initial call between Mr O and RACs advisor. The advisor  said 12 months 
membership - plus £79 for the service that day - would cost Mr O £128.99. He said the 
membership was personal to Mr O. Later on in the call he clarified that Mr O was covered by 
the policy in any car, as long as it wasnt commercial. 
Mr O said nothing about only wanting  service that day. He also didnt query it when the 
advisor said RAC would  write to Mr O shortly before the policy  was due to end and that it 
would be renewed  if RAC  didnt hear from him. So I think it was reasonable for the advisor to 
conclude that Mr O was happy with annual  RAC  membership and automatic renewal.
The advisor said a welcome pack would be sent to Mr O. RAC  can show from notes on its 
system that the pack was produced to be sent to Mr O that day. So I think its more  likely 
than not that the pack was sent to him. If Mr O didnt  receive  it, in my view it would have 
been reasonable for him to have called RAC to query that. 
RAC can also show that renewal letters were  produced on its system  in April 2017 and in 
April 2018. I think its more likely than not that they were sent to Mr O, too. Annual  cover was 
offered at £58 in 2017 and at £71.98  in 2018.  If Mr O didnt get the renewal documents, I can 
only assume they went astray in the post. But that isnt RACs  fault. On both occasions,  the 
cost of the new policy would have been  taken from Mr Os account. I think  that should have 
alerted him to the situation, but it seems  he didnt notice.
Ref: DRN43012862Mr O says that as the car RAC initially assisted him with was no longer in the UK after three 
months, there was no need for him to have  the policy  after that point. But I dont think thats 
relevant. The policy  covered  any car Mr O drove or was a passenger in. 
Mr O says he was distressed and on the motorway when  he called RAC, so it wasnt right for 
the advisor to bombard  him. I assume  Mr O means that in his view he was given  too much  
information and that he wasnt able to process it due to his state of mind. 
In the call, Mr O said he was parked in a motorway service station when he found  he was 
locked out, so he wasnt on the roadside  or in any danger. I think  its fair to say that he didnt 
sound upset. In fact, Mr O made light-hearted comments to the advisor.  I think the advisor 
gave Mr O all the details  he was obliged to provide. From listening to the call, it seems  that 
much of what he said was from a script. I dont think there was anything unreasonable about 
the way the advisor delivered it or in any of the conversation he had with Mr O. 
Mr O says he wouldnt have been  looking for breakdown cover in 2018 if hed known he 
already had it. I can only assume  that Mr O had forgotten  about  the RAC  policy  or hadnt  
realised hed signed up to automatic renewal. If thats the case,  I can see why he was 
surprised to find that he had cover  with RAC.  But I dont think that means RAC was wrong  to 
renew the initial policy.
In my opinion, Mr O hasnt been  able to show that RAC misled him, and theres no evidence 
that it acted unreasonably.  In fact it offered to give Mr O a pro-rata refund of his 2018 policy, 
which it didnt have  to do. I dont think theres  any basis  for upholding Mr Os complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4301286