K820x#14complaint
Mrs L has complained  about  a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy  that 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) sold her in 1999.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 2nd September 2019, where  I concluded that I was 
minded to not uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
In summary,  I found:
Mrs L applied for a store card in 1999  and at the same time a PPI policy  was added.  The 
policy covered her against accidents,  sickness and unemployment.
I concluded the PPI policy was more  likely  than not presented as optional to Mrs L. I 
could see from the sales documentation provided including  the application form that it 
was more likely put across as an optional requirement and Mrs L signed  for it.
There may have been shortcomings in the way FICL sold the policy. But after careful  
consideration I could  not conclude that these possible shortcomings would have affected 
Mrs Ls decision to take the policy. 
I was unable to conclude that Mrs L would  have necessarily declined the policy if the 
information she had received would  have been any clearer.
Mrs L had a medical condition but I didnt think this would have put her off from having 
the cover  as it didnt  impact on her day to day life at that time and she had told the 
service she didnt  have  time off work  over it.
I concluded that I was minded to not uphold her complaint and invited comments  on this 
from both parties.  
my findings
I have again considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have not provided  any further  information for me to consider.
As neither party has raised any further  points,  I see no reason to depart from my conclusion  
given within  the provisional decision.  So I conclude that the policy was not mis-sold and I do 
not uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ls complaint and I do not make any award 
against Financial  Insurance  Company Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4124922