K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold  him a Mortgage  Protection Plan with 
critical illness cover.
background
In 2003 HSBC sold Mr C a Mortgage Protection Plan with critical illness cover.  This was sold 
to Mr C in conjunction  with a mortgage of £48,900  repayable over a term of 14 years. The 
policy was designed  to pay a lump sum on death or critical illness,  subject to the full policy 
terms and conditions.
Mr C later complained that HSBC  mis-sold  him the cover in 2003.  HSBC didnt uphold 
Mr Cs complaint, so he brought his case to this service.
We first considered whether we could consider Mr Cs case  given the rules on what 
complaints we can and cannot consider. But this was resolved.  So an investigator reviewed 
the merits of the case. They didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint  be upheld. Mr C 
disagreed with the investigators opinion, so the case was passed  to me for a decision.
I sent Mr C and HSBC my provisional  decision on 19 July 2019 explaining why I wasnt  
intending to uphold Mr Cs complaint.  I said that before I made  my final decision, Id consider 
any more comments and evidence that I got by 19 August 2019.
Mr Cs replied to my provisional decision. Theres no need for me to set out in detail here 
everything Mr C has said.  In summary,  Mr C has referred again  to the general banking 
culture and mis-selling  at the time;  he says HSBC  has relied on a tick in a box that he didnt 
fill in; weve  said this was still good  practice by the bank even if things are confusing  or 
contradictory. He also says that Financial Conduct  Authority guidelines  that businesses  
should be clear, fair and adhere to good business  practice  werent followed by HSBC. Hes 
also questioned  the impartiality of our service. 
HSBC didnt reply to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mr C that Ive considered this complaint  impartially and independently  from 
both parties. And Ive thought carefully about everything Mr C has said about his complaint 
about HSBC.  
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint for the same  reasons I 
explained in my provisional decision.  Ive explained  my reasons  again below, with further 
comment where appropriate to address Mr Cs response to my provisional  decision.
From the information Ive seen, the cover  was sold to Mr C at a HSBC branch in 2003. Mr C 
says he wasnt told the cover was optional, and that he was led to believe his mortgage 
application depended on him taking  out the cover. I accept  its possible that Mr C was told or 
led to believe this. I wouldnt  expect  the paperwork from the time of sale that is still available 
to capture exactly everything Mr C and the HSBC representative discussed at the time. So I 
cant know now exactly how the cover  was presented to Mr C overall.
Ref: DRN48888902Nevertheless, Im satisfied from the available paperwork that the cover was optional  and the 
paperwork didnt present it otherwise. There was a separate box on the paperwork 
completed at the time for Life and Critical Illness Cover. This had multiple options, one of 
which was to decline the cover. I can also see Mr C signed a separate  form for the cover.  So 
while I dont doubt  Mr C has given  us his honest  recollections now,  where I cant be certain I 
need to make up my mind based on what I think more likely than not happened. And here,  
while I understand what Mr C has said about the banking culture and mis-selling, this doesnt 
mean all insurance policies were mis-sold. And even though Mr C appears  to be saying the 
relevant part of the form wasnt completed  by him, I think that, as the policy was sold during 
a meeting, the form most  likely does generally  reflect what  was discussed. Overall,  Im not 
satisfied there is enough  evidence  to say HSBC didnt present the cover as optional,  or that 
it pressured Mr C to take out the cover. I can see on the paperwork that the following 
separate cover appears to have been  available: Income or Essential Abilities Protection and 
Mortgage Repayment Protection, the latter of which its my understanding would be PPI for 
a mortgage, which Mr Cs comments  about  the general banking culture and mis-selling  could 
arguably be more  directed  at. And I can see that Mr C declined these separate insurances,  
but that he chose  to take out the Life and Critical Illness  Cover.  I think its unlikely HSBC 
would have led Mr C to believe  this was mandatory,  when the paperwork indicated the 
opposite, and Mr C clearly declined other insurance. So I think its most likely that HSBC 
made it clear  that Mr C had a choice about buying the cover,  and that Mr C chose  to take it 
out, even if  understandably  he cant remember that now.  
HSBC says it didnt  recommend  the cover to Mr C. It says it provided information  for Mr C to 
decide for himself  whether he wanted  it, but that it didnt advise him to take it out. There has 
been some  dispute  about this and Mr C has pointed to documentation  that he says shows  
HSBC did advise him.
I can see why Mr C has disputed this. On page one of the Mortgage Package   Customer  
Instruction Form, a box is ticked next to the statement I/we have sufficient information and 
knowledge to make my/our own decision and have  not received any advice . But this 
appears to possibly be in relation to just the mortgage at that point on the form, and not 
necessarily the insurance. On page  two of the same  document,  however, the section for 
choosing insurance  products  is framed as Mr C giving HSBC  instructions to arrange the 
cover (as opposed to HSBC recommending it). And in the signed  customer declaration 
further down the same  page there is the statement, It is my/our  decision to proceed with the 
instructions shown above. I/we have not relied on, or been influenced by, any advice or 
opinion provided  by HSBC Bank plc or any of its employees about the merits or suitability of 
them (with the exception of any cover  taken for buildings or contents). So overall Im 
satisfied that this form indicates, taken by itself, that HSBC didnt recommend the cover,  but 
that this was instead a non-advised sale.
Completely understandably, however, Mr C has pointed to a different document,  headed 
Key Features of the Mortgage Protection With Critical Illness Benefit, that states:
I acknowledge and appreciate HSBCs points that the advice cost here doesnt 
automatically mean it recommended the policy (or, in other words, that this was an advised 
sale instead of a non-advised sale). However,  there is another  document  from the time of 
sale, headed Life assurance front sheet, that states:
Ref: DRN48888903Mr C hasnt given much detail about why he thinks from his actual recollection of the sale in 
2003  as distinguished from referring  to the paperwork  now  that HSBC  advised him on 
the suitability of the cover, as distinguished from it instead providing him with information 
about the cover so he could make up his own mind.  But given the further reference here, in 
the document above, to the sale being  an advised one, I understand Mr Cs point  of view.
Overall, however, Im not persuaded that, either  way, this makes a difference to my 
conclusion here.
If HSBC didnt recommend the cover to Mr C  and instead only provided  information to 
Mr C for him to make  up his own mind about  it  then HSBC didnt have to check  whether 
the cover  was suitable for Mr C. It did, however, need to make sure Mr C got the information  
he needed to decide if the cover was right for him  and it looks  like it most likely did so. But 
even if I accepted that the information about  the cover  wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  been at 
the time (and Im not saying that I do), Mr C chose to take it out, so it looks  like he wanted 
this type of cover; and it seems  like it could have  been useful if something  went  wrong. The 
cost of the cover was shown on the documentation,  so I think  Mr C would have understood 
how much  he would need to pay for it. So I dont think better information about  the cover  
would have put Mr C off taking it out. To be clear,  therefore, I think  Mr C most  likely did get 
the information he needed to decide whether he wanted the cover.  But even if he didnt, I 
dont think this would have made  a difference  I think he would most  likely have taken  out 
the policy anyway,  such that there would be no impact on what  actually happened,  and 
therefore no grounds here for me to uphold the complaint and award  compensation.
If, on the other hand, HSBC did recommend the cover to Mr C, then it had to check  it was 
suitable for Mr C. Based  on what Ive seen of Mr Cs circumstances at the time,  it appears 
that it was suitable for him. Mr C wasnt recorded on the policy application form as single. 
And it looks like the cover  could have  been  useful in the event of death or critical illness.  
Mr C hasnt provided information that persuades  me the cover  wasnt  suitable for him. So 
even if I accepted that HSBC recommended or advised Mr C to take out the policy, Im not 
persuaded that the policy wasnt right for him, nor therefore that HSBC  should not have 
recommended it.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Cs comments. But for the reasons explained above, these 
points dont change  my conclusion. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4888890