K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about  the impact TSB Bank Plcs IT issues had on them.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case in July 2019 explaining why I intended to uphold  
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  but why I didnt  require TSB to do anything  further  to put things 
right. A copy of my provisional  decision is attached  and forms part of my final decision.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  evidence and comments they would like 
me to consider. TSB didnt provide  anything  further. Mr and Mrs C provided a response to 
my provisional decision explaining why they didnt agree with it. I have considered this 
below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought very carefully about  what Mr and Mrs C have said in response to my 
provisional decision. However, the points they make dont change my mind about  the 
outcome. This is because  I have already taken these points into account in reaching  my 
provisional decision. 
In summary,  Mr and Mrs C have said that I havent really considered the distress and 
inconvenience they suffered from August 2018  onwards and that TSBs offer was only 
accepted by them as a partial settlement for the period from May 2018  until August 2018. 
Although I appreciate what  Mr and Mrs C say about  the point at which TSB made their offer 
and the inconvenience they continued  to suffer even after this for several months which  TSB 
wouldnt have been made aware  about at the time of their initial  complaint, Ive explained in 
my provisional decision why I still considered this offer to be a fair and reasonable to 
compensate Mr and Mrs C from May 2018 to present. And I havent  seen  anything  further 
which changes that.
As is evident from my provisional decision, when  considering Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  I 
have also already taken into account the amount of time it has taken for TSB to confirm that 
the emails they received were  genuine and the distress and inconvenience caused to them  
during this time. I have also already taken into consideration the length of time it took for 
TSB to restore online banking services and at a time when Mr and Mrs C were concerned 
about fraudulent  activity  on their account  and would have needed to check  their account 
regularly. 
Having taking all relevant matters into consideration, I dont see any reason to depart from 
the findings as set out in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint but I dont  require TSB Bank plc to do anything  further  to 
put things right as they have already paid Mr and Mrs C £2100 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused to them as well as £266.50 for financial losses.
Ref: DRN47660772Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 September 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN47660773copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the impact TSB Bank Plcs IT issues had on them.
background
In May 2018  Mr and Mrs C were abroad on their retirement holiday. On 7 May 2018 they tried to 
access their account online and were suspicious about what  was happening on their device during 
this online access. They tried numerous times to contact  TSB to alert them of this over the next few 
days but were unable to get through  to TSB on the phone. They  eventually  emailed TSB with their 
concerns.
Mr and Mrs C had funds of almost £14000 removed from their account  on 21 May 2018. Following 
this they had repeated fraud and attempted fraud on their account over the next few months up to 
(and including) August 2018.  All payments were refunded to the account  within 24 hours  of Mr C 
making TSB aware that the transactions were  fraudulent.
In summary, Mr C says that because of the fraudulent activity over this period of time,  his credit score 
also dropped.  Mr and Mrs C say that they have spent hours calling,  emailing and writing  to the fraud 
department chasing for updates and for a resolution  to their complaint. As mentioned above,  Mr and 
Mrs C were on a retirement holiday during this period of time and have explained in detail how 
stressful this entire experience has been for them.  Mr  C didnt have access  to online banking  during 
this period and had no method of checking his credit card account. He made numerous  attempts at 
trying to get back on to online banking during calls and in branch.  He eventually managed  to access 
online banking in December 2018. In June 2018 Mr and Mrs Cs direct debits and standing  order 
failed which meant Mr C ended up spending hours contacting the recipients while abroad to make 
manual payments and for the full amount (rather than the direct debit  amount) to some of the 
recipients. Mr C was unable  to make a payment to his credit card and had to get his daughter to make 
a payment on his behalf. On another  occasion a payment he made was sent to an old account.  Mr C 
has also raised  other issues such as receiving  suspicious  looking emails  from TSB and his credit  card 
not reporting on his credit file.
Mr and Mrs C want compensation from TSB for their financial losses and the distress and 
inconvenience caused  to them. 
TSB considered Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and offered to pay them £2100  as compensation  for the 
distress and inconvenience  caused  to them as well as £196.50 for expenses.
Mr and Mrs C didnt think this amount  of compensation  reflected  what  they had endured and brought  
their complaint to this service. Our adjudicator considered  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and concluded 
that the amount of compensation  TSB awarded  Mr and Mrs C for the distress and inconvenience they 
had suffered was fair. She did, however, recommend that TSB pay Mr and Mrs C a further £50 for call 
costs and £20 for travel  costs.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with our adjudicator  and so the complaint has been passed  to me to 
decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I currently agree with the outcome reached by the adjudicator. I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs C will be disappointed by my decision as they were expecting  a far higher amount. However,  it is 
Ref: DRN47660774of course up to Mr and Mrs C whether they choose to accept or reject my decision. I will now explain 
why I have  reached this outcome.
Mr C is unhappy that TSB have inferred that he allowed  the fraud to occur on his account. TSB have 
said that Mr and Mrs C had been the victims of a sophisticated  third party fraud and acknowledged  
that they may have been targeted by fraudsters hoping to take advantage  of the IT migration  issues 
TSB were facing. Due to this, TSB have refunded Mr and Mrs C the funds  that were taken  from their 
account. Although  the refunds have been made, I need to consider whether its fair and reasonable 
for TSB to compensate  Mr and Mrs C for the distress  and inconvenience they faced  and if so, how 
much is a fair and reasonable amount  of compensation in the particular circumstances of this case.
I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs C suffered a great deal of stress  and anxiety  due to the issues they 
faced and should be awarded  compensation  for this. They had money  taken from their account (as 
well as attempted to be taken from their account)   on several different occasions  over a period of a 
several months and so were understandably constantly  worried about fraud taking place on their 
account. They  were abroad on their retirement holiday when some of the frauds took place and it took 
Mr C numerous calls and a considerable amount of time to inform TSB of what was happening.  I can 
appreciate how this affected their retirement holiday. He was promised calls back which  didnt 
materialise. This became  a common  pattern and the service Mr and Mrs C fell below what  they should 
reasonably have received.  
Although the refunds took place  within  24 hours of TSB becoming aware of the fraudulent 
transactions, I appreciate  Mr C wasnt always  made aware that this had happened. In relation to the 
first set of fraudulent  transactions on 21 May 2018,  based on TSBs records,  a couple  of days later it 
appears that TSB had recognised  that the account may have been  compromised. The record says 
they would await contact  from Mr and Mrs C to discuss this with them. Mr C contacted them on 7 June 
2018 because his direct  debits had been returned unpaid. And it wasnt until 8 June 2018 that Mr C 
was able to speak with the fraud  team to raise  a fraud case.  The funds were refunded on the same 
day but it appears Mr and Mrs C werent informed  until a few days later. 
Mr C was informed that although the account had been blocked,  his regular payments would still be 
honoured. Despite this Mr Cs direct debits were returned incorrectly. As access to online  banking had 
been blocked,  Mr C had to go to the trouble of chasing and paying individual recipients directly  while 
he was abroad  and ended up paying full amounts to some  of them.  One of the unpaid  direct debits 
was Mr Cs credit  card, and as already mentioned, after numerous  attempts to pay it, he had to ask 
his daughter to make the payment on his behalf. It appears that the payment did not go through when 
he tried because the account he was trying to make the payment from had been blocked  due to the 
fraud. I cant see that Mr and Mrs C incurred  missed/late  payment charges because  of the missed  
direct debits. 
Mr C was without internet  banking for several  months, a method which he relied heavily on, and was 
also without telephone banking for some time. He made numerous attempts  on the phone and in 
branch to get his online bank reinstated. Because of the fraud that had taken place, I appreciate how 
stressful it must have been for Mr and Mrs C to not be able to check their account  status whenever 
they needed to. Mr C had his debit card cancelled twice and also had to cancel  his credit card.  
As already  mentioned, Mr C is also concerned  about emails he has been receiving  purporting to be 
from TSB which appear to him to be suspicious and that his credit card isnt reporting on his credit file. 
We asked  TSB to look into these issues too as part of this complaint  rather than Mr and Mrs C having  
to go through  the process of setting up a new complaint.  
Mr C has provided us with copies of these emails. I appreciate it must have been stressful  for Mr C 
thinking that these might  be fraudulent  emails, given the fraud  they have  already suffered. However, 
TSB have confirmed that these emails are genuine  TSB emails. They  recognise that the emails are 
quoting, for example, a 0 or the last four digits of Mr Cs previous credit card and will continue to 
look into why this is. Although I appreciate that it isnt satisfactory that the emails have been providing 
incorrect information for the length of time that they have and that this still hasnt been resolved, I 
Ref: DRN47660775think that the confirmation that these are genuine  TSB emails  should go some way in reducing the 
impact on Mr C.
Mr C has also provided us with copies of his credit  report. It appears that the last time the credit card 
appeared on Mr Cs credit report was in August 2018.  Since then it has stopped reporting on his credit  
file. Mr C has also provided us with a copy of Mrs Cs credit report  (December 2018) explaining  that 
this does not report  the credit card either. However, given that the card is in Mr Cs name alone, it 
wouldnt report on Mrs Cs credit report in any event. I note that Mr Cs credit rating dipped between 
August 2018  and December 2018. There are a number  of factors that can impact a credit rating and I 
dont have sufficient evidence to conclude that Mr Cs credit rating  decreased solely because this 
credit card had stopped showing on his account. Especially given that no adverse information  was 
recorded about it and the rating increased again in March 2019 despite the credit card still not 
showing on the credit file. In any event  TSB have now confirmed that they had been correctly  
reporting the credit card and that one of the three credit  reference agencies that they report to hadnt 
correctly updated the account and that is why it didnt  appear on the credit  file. So I dont hold TSB 
responsible for the credit  card not reflecting as it should have on his credit file. And as I understand it 
the third party have now corrected the error  and the credit card should start reporting on Mr Cs credit  
file.
Mr C has also explained how he was contacted  by a credit reference agency to inform  him of a 
potential fraudulent  membership application made in Mr Cs name. However, I havent seen any 
evidence that this was because of something TSB had done wrong.  So I dont hold TSB responsible  
for someone impersonating  Mr C and trying to gain membership to the credit reference agency. 
Fortunately, in any event, no actual fraud took place. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C have gone  to the trouble  of providing a breakdown of how much they think 
they should  be compensated. They  have  said that for the period 2 May-30 August 2018 they should 
be paid £2925; for the period  30 August  to 21 November they should  be paid £964.30;  and from 21 
November they should receive a further £345. This brings  the total compensation amount they want, 
to £4234.30. 
Ive thought carefully about  what  Mr and Mrs C have  said but there is no explanation for why Mr and 
Mrs C have arrived at the hourly or weekly  rates  that they have.  And anyway, deciding what  amounts 
to fair and reasonable compensation for distress and inconvenience isnt necessarily a case of adding  
up individual errors/periods of times  nor is it about punishing TSB or asking TSB to pay for a break  Mr 
and Mrs C have decided to take to get away from the stress they are facing.  Instead Ive considered  
the case  as a whole and thought about whether TSBs offer is sufficient to reflect the impact on Mr 
and Mrs C from May 2018 to present.
Its clear to me that Mr and Mrs C should be compensated at the higher end for the stress and 
inconvenience they suffered. TSBs offer of £2100 is what I would consider to be a high compensation 
award and it is certainly higher than what we would  typically award in these circumstances. So I think  
that the compensation offered by TSB already for distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable  
taking all the circumstances  into account.   
Mr and Mrs C havent provided evidence  of the call costs  they incurred  from 30 August 2018 but I 
dont doubt they did make  several calls to TSB. However,  I do bear in mind that some of the calls they 
made were to the credit reference agency in relation to the attempted fraud  as I have found that this 
was not because  of TSB I wouldnt expect  TSB to refund these  call costs. Without evidence,  I dont 
know what the precise figure would be but I think a further £50 reflects a fair and reasonable amount 
in call costs and I also consider £20 for the branch  visit to be reasonable. So I think TSB should  pay 
Mr and Mrs C a further £70 to take this into account.  I also take on board what Mr C has said about  
the adverse effect on his credit file due to fraudulent activity. I cant  see any direct impact of this 
activity caused by TSB on Mr and Mrs Cs credit  files however, TSB have provided  Mr and Mrs C with 
a letter  which they can pass on to other credit  providers  if need be for adverse information to be 
corrected. 
Ref: DRN47660776Its clear that Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with TSB. However, it is for Mr and Mrs C to consider 
whether or not they want  to continue to bank with TSB in these circumstances, especially given their 
concern that the security of their account has been compromised.
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint to the extent that TSB should  pay Mr and Mrs C further 
expenses as set out above. I understand TSB Bank  Plc have  already paid Mr and Mrs C these further 
expenses to the amount of £70 following  the adjudicators  assessment. This is in addition to the 
£196.50 they have already  paid for expenses. 
I currently think that TSB Bank Plcs  offer of £2100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience is 
fair and reasonable for the reasons set out in this decision.
As all of the payments have been made already, I wont be asking TSB Bank Plc to do anything 
further.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4766077