K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that FirstRand  Bank  Limited (trading as Motonovo  Finance) lent to him 
irresponsibly because it failed to conduct a proper  affordability check before the loan was 
agreed.
background 
In October  2014 Mr C was supplied  with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement  
with Motonovo.  The total amount borrowed was £3,871.25 payable by 47 payments of 
£109.03 with an optional final payment of £199.
Mr C says the agreement  wasnt  affordable  from the start. He says that if Motonovo  had 
carried out a credit check it would have seen  that he had payday  loans  and an overdraft 
facility that was fully utilised.  
Mr C says at the time of entering into the agreement his outgoings exceeded  his income and 
he had to borrow each  month to make debt repayments. Mr C says that by approving  the 
loan, Motonovo  made his financial situation  worse.
In its final response Motonovo says it carried out a credit check. It also says that although 
there were late payments, Mr C never  made it aware he was experiencing financial 
difficulties or that the loan wasnt affordable. 
Mr C wasnt happy with Motonovos response so he complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said Mr Cs credit  file showed that he had taken  
out several payday loans in the months  before applying for the loan with Motonovo and that 
because of this Motonovo  should have carried  out further checks  to ensure the lending  was 
affordable. The investigator said Motonovo should  refund any interest and fees charged to 
the account.
Motonovo didnt  agree.  It said Mr Cs application  was automatically accepted as being within 
risk criteria and therefore it wasnt necessary to carry out a full affordability assessment. It 
also said that over the term of the loan there had only been 5 late payments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whether  its appropriate to advance credit, lenders must undertake reasonable 
and proportionate checks to see if lending is affordable.  The checks the lender is required to 
do depend on several factors, including the amount  of credit,  the level of repayments, what  
the lender knows  about the customer and the information the customer has provided.
Motonovo says it carried out a credit check when  Mr C applied for the loan. There  isnt any 
information available to show the results  of the credit check, so Ive looked at Mr Cs credit 
file to see what it showed at the time.
Ref: DRN46698722I can see that Mr C had several other loans. These were  all up to date and wouldnt 
necessarily be a reason  for Motonovo to require  further information  from Mr C or to refuse 
the loan. 
However, I can also see from the credit file that Mr C had taken out payday loans every 
month from January  2014 to August 2014.  Although  all of these payday loans had been 
repaid on time, I think the number and frequency  of these should  have alerted Motonovo to 
the fact that Mr C was struggling to meet his monthly liabilities without short  term borrowing. 
With this pattern of payday loans I would have  expected Motonovo to look into Mr Cs 
finances further before agreeing the loan. In particular,  I would  have expected Motonovo  to 
look at Mr Cs income and outgoings in more  detail.
Ive looked at Mr Cs income and expenditure (based on his bank statements) for the month 
before he entered into the loan agreement.  This shows that his monthly  income was 
approximately £2200, with his wife contributing  a further £1320 per month  to the account  
from which household  bills and other  outgoings and liabilities were paid. I can see that Mr C 
took out a payday loan for £1000 in September 2014. His expenditure that month was 
approximately £4,450, which exceeded  his income.
Ive taken into account what Motonovo has said about the number of late payments over the 
term of the loan and the absence of any complaint about irresponsible lending or financial 
difficulties until after the loan had been repaid.  
Whilst I agree that Mr C initially managed to keep up with his repayments, his bank 
statements show that he was reliant on payday  loans.  This situation continued until 2017.   If 
Mr C hadnt taken out payday loans  he wouldnt have been able to meet  his outgoings,  
including the repayments to Motonovo.  Taking all of that information into account, I dont 
think that the loan was affordable.
The timing  of Mr Cs complaint doesnt make a difference to my view. Based on the credit  file 
and the bank statements Im satisfied that the loan was unaffordable for Mr C. 
I cant be certain of why Mr C didnt make Motonovo aware  that he was experiencing 
financial difficulties but there are a number of possible and entirely legitimate reasons as to 
why this might be the case.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, I think  the Motonovo should  
have carried out further checks before lending money to Mr C. If it had carried out further  
checks I think it would have concluded  that the loan was unaffordable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  FirstRand Bank Limited  should:
Refund all interest  and charges on the account
Ref: DRN46698723Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Remove any adverse  information relating to the loan from Mr Cs credit  file
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4669872