K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that information recorded by Experian Limited has stopped  him getting  a 
mortgage.
background
Mr I has a current account with a bank I will refer to as Bank  A. The account has an overdraft 
facility. 
In February 2019  Mr I was going  through the process  of buying a house.  He says he wasnt  
able to go ahead with the purchase as Experian reduced his credit score from 817 to 799 in 
his February report. He says due to this he lost the property as well as £700 he paid for a 
survey. Mr I didnt think it was fair that they reduced his score, so complained to Experian.
Experian said they reduced Mr Is credit  score as Bank A had informed them that he had 
gone into the overdraft on his current account. They said as an overdraft is considered  to be 
credit, using  it will have  an impact on the score.  They  also said that when Mr I questioned 
the information initially, they checked  with Bank A that the information  was correct. They say 
his credit score returned to 817 in his March  report.
Mr I was unhappy with their response, as he didnt  think his score should have been 
changed, so he complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked at all the issues and thought Experian hadnt done  anything wrong. 
He said Experian  rely on information from financial businesses  to calculate their score,  so 
anything that isnt right has to be raised with the relevant business directly.  He said when 
Mr I complained to them,  Experian asked Bank A if the information was correct. So he 
thought Experian had acted fairly  and therefore didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr I disagreed with our investigator as he still thought Experian shouldnt have reduced his 
score. He asked for the decision of an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Experian calculate credit  scores for their customers based on  amongst other things - 
information provided by financial businesses. In Mr Is case, I can see Experian received an 
update from Bank A in January, which told them he had gone overdrawn on his current  
account. Experian have said that this information  is the reason they reduced his credit  score.  
It isnt clear whether  Mr I thinks the information reported to Experian by Bank A is incorrect. 
It is Bank  As job to make sure the information  it reports to Experian  is accurate. So even if 
the information provided was incorrect, this wouldnt be the fault of Experian. When  Mr I 
queried the change to his score, Experian contacted Bank  A to check  the information. This 
was all they reasonably could  have  been expected to do. For these reasons I think  Experian 
have acted fairly.
Ref: DRN48067212Mr I says he wasnt able to go ahead  with a house purchase due to his reduced credit  score.  
I understand how frustrating this would have been and that it was made  worse  by the fact he 
had already paid for a survey. However,  I cant say this is Experians fault. The credit  score 
Experian show consumers is intended  to give users  an idea of how lenders might view their 
financial status. However lenders dont ever see or use the score Experian calculates.  
Instead, lenders  assess a consumers creditworthiness  using  their own methods. So I dont 
think Experian changing the score  they show to Mr I has had any material  impact  on his 
mortgage application. I therefore  dont  think Experian have done anything  wrong  and dont 
think it would  be reasonable to ask them to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4806721