K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs E hold with Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax). The mortgage has been arrears for some time and Mr and Mrs E complain that 
Halifax took them to court for a possession  order when they were trying  to agree a payment 
arrangement.
background
Mr and Mrs E brought an earlier complaint to us about the way Halifax  was dealing with 
them and their arrears. Halifax had been taking  legal action  about  the arrears,  but halted it 
whilst we considered  the complaint. That complaint was determined by an ombudsman  
colleague, who didnt  uphold it. 
Briefly, she wasnt persuaded that Halifax was obliged to wait for the respective outcomes of 
a court  case  (not related to the Halifax possession action) and an application to the 
Department for Work and Pensions that Mr and Mrs E were  pursuing before taking further 
action to recover the mortgage debt.  She also found that Halifax  was reasonably  entitled  to 
insist on a payment  arrangement being negotiated  orally (either over the telephone or in 
person if need  be) rather than in writing, as Mr and Mrs E preferred.
The final decision  on that complaint was issued  in January 2018; this complaint is about 
what has happened since. My final decision wont revisit my colleagues findings on the 
earlier complaint, other than to provide context for my findings  on this complaint. In what  
follows, all of the monetary amounts have been rounded  slightly;  thats deliberate  as it 
reduces the risk of identification. 
Over the spring  and summer  of 2018,  Mr and Mrs E wrote a succession  of letters to Halifax, 
each one complaining that the business hadnt  replied to its predecessors. In August 2018,  
one of their sons had a telephone discussion with Halifax on their behalf.  On 20 August 2018  
Halifax wrote  telling them that theyd exhausted  its complaints procedure. The letter  said a 
payment of just under  £2,000 was due on 1 September 2018, and included  details of how to 
pay it. A few days later, Halifax wrote again to say that following an interest rate change,  the 
monthly payment  was now just under £2,035.00.  
Mr and Mrs E took this to mean an arrangement had been  agreed,  and paid the higher sum 
on 1 September  2018. They didnt pay it in successive months, though; apparently because 
Halifax refused to confirm  in writing that an arrangement had been formalised. Halifax began  
legal action and Mr and Mrs E once more complained to us. 
This time, however, Halifax didnt halt the legal action and the case went  to court.  Halifax  
has told us a possession  order  was granted, suspended on condition  Mr and Mrs E maintain 
a payment arrangement comprising the contractual payment plus a further sum of just over 
£600 every  month.
Mr and Mrs E believe the possession action was unnecessary  and in breach of Halifaxs  
regulatory obligations. The adjudicator who looked into it didnt  agree  and didnt recommend 
the complaint  be upheld.  Its come to me for review  as Mr and Mrs E want their complaint 
decided by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN47255752my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid Ive some  
disappointing news for Mr and Mrs E.
I said that I wouldnt be revisiting the final decision in the earlier  complaint,  but would refer to 
it for context, when necessary. I do that now. The ombudsman said, in that earlier decision:
Halifax has made it clear in the previous complaint that its unable to discuss 
repayment proposals by email. Halifax doesnt consider this to be sufficiently secure. 
This is a decision Halifax  is allowed to make, in order to safeguard customers  data, 
confidentiality and personal security.
Im also not persuaded that theres  any basis for a specific  staff member to be made 
available to speak  to Mr and Mrs Es son. If he has all relevant financial information  
to give to Halifax, then it should be possible for the bank to take down this 
information, along with repayment proposals.
Alternatively, a field agent could visit Mr and Mrs Es home  and discuss the matter  
with them  and their son, examine their financial documents as evidence  of their 
circumstances and make a note of their proposals  to pay the arrears. Halifax  would 
then be in a position to consider the proposals.
So Im satisfied Halifax does have options in place to discuss  the arrears and any 
payment proposals.  That these might not meet Mr and Mrs Es exact  requirements  is 
unfortunate. But I think the options Halifax has in place are reasonable for Mr and 
Mrs Es situation.
The ombudsman also said:
 even if Mr and Mrs E cant afford the full monthly repayment, they are allowed to 
pay whatever they can afford,  whenever they can, towards the mortgage in order to 
help their position. Mr and Mrs E dont  need Halifaxs permission to do this, or to 
discuss in advance what their proposals  are. It can only help borrowers in financial 
difficulty if they are able to show willing by paying  what they can towards the 
mortgage on a monthly  basis.
That was in January 2018.  For several  months after, until their son eventually spoke to the 
bank on their behalf, Mr and Mrs Es response  to the ombudsmans  decision appears to 
have been to continue writing letters to Halifax and then wondering why that wasnt  getting 
them anywhere. 
The next payment  Halifax  received from Mr and Mrs E was on 1 September  2018, as 
mentioned above.  That payment was made after their sons telephone contact and the 
letters I mentioned  earlier. I think Mr and Mrs Es characterisation of the 20 August 2018 
letter as a payment  arrangement is a bit of a stretch. The reality is that it was a concluding 
response from a complaint handler, which happened  to include a reminder  that a monthly 
payment was due.
But even if I took them on face value and agreed that the 20 August 2018 letter contained a 
payment arrangement (and to be clear I dont)  that then begs the question of why 
Ref: DRN47255753Mr and Mrs E didnt  keep to it after September 2018.  Bearing in mind  the advice of my fellow 
ombudsman in the previous decision, its fair to conclude Mr and Mrs E knew  they should  be 
making payments  every month, whether or not Halifax was corresponding with them in terms 
that they found acceptable. 
We cant tell consumers what  to do, and ultimately Mr and Mrs E made their own choice not 
to follow  my colleagues advice. Nonetheless, it was good advice and I cant say 
Mr and Mrs E werent on notice of the potential consequences if they didnt recommence 
making payments  and continue doing  so every month they were  able to. Insofar as they 
didnt do that, I dont think Halifax acted unfairly  or breached  any regulatory obligations when 
it decided to take them to court.
Clearly, the court didnt think so either, because it granted a possession  order  suspended on 
condition Mr and Mrs E keep to a payment arrangement. Lenders often take legal action with 
that in mind; that is, not because they want to evict the borrowers but because  they want 
something in place to underpin a payment arrangement. Mr and Mrs E might find that 
unwelcome but I dont  find it to be unfair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 May 2019.  
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4725575