K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP (Uncle Buck) lent to her when she could 
not afford  to make the repayments. Miss W has told Uncle Buck These loans were clearly  
unaffordable and lent irresponsibly and has contributed further to the debt spiralling  and my 
financial hardship. 
Miss W also complains  at the way that Uncle Buck has handled  the complaint and dealt with 
some interest accrual. 
background
I attach my provisional decision dated 4 March 2019, which forms part of this final decision 
and should be read in conjunction with it. In my provisional decision I explained why 
I intended to uphold Miss Ws complaint in part. I invited both parties  to provide any further 
comments they may have  by 18 March 2019 before I reached a further decision.
Miss W has spoken to a colleague  and has agreed  with my provisional decision and has 
nothing further  to add. Uncle Buck has responded. It has asked me to say whether I have 
considered this aspect:
the reason  for Miss W bringing  her complaint to Uncle Buck less than two weeks  
after taking Loan 2 and before the first instalment for that loan was due. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
I am content  that Miss W has accepted my provisional decision. 
In response to Uncle Bucks point  outlined above,  then my response is that I had noted the 
timing of Miss Ws complaint  to it. But as Uncle Buck has conceded in relation to Loan 2, 
I have not needed to review the Loan 2 lending decision because of Uncle  Bucks  offer in 
relation to it. So this is largely academic. I see no reason to alter the provisional findings I set 
out in my provisional  decision.
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and here, I uphold Miss Ws complaint for 
Loans 1 and 2.  I do not uphold that part of Miss Ws complaint which  related to Uncle  Bucks  
complaint handling and interest accrual. 
putting things right 
To put things right for Miss W, Uncle  Buck should:
refund  all the interest and charges applied as a result of Loans  1 and 2; and
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid, if they were,  to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse payment information  recorded on Miss Ws credit file as a result 
of the interest  and charges on these  loans.
Ref: DRN41078992Uncle Buck  is entitled to set off any monies  arising  from the redress against any monies 
Miss W may owe it, but to be clear this should  only be in respect of the principal sum 
borrowed. Any unpaid  charges and interest would need to be removed first and any 
payments made to either  loan treated  as if Miss W had paid down the principal.
If a third party owns any debt then in order to do the set off I have outlined  above, Uncle  
Buck will need to repurchase that debt. If it does not do that then it cannot do the set off and 
the full amount due will be repayable to Miss W directly. And in those circumstances the third 
party will need to be directed by Uncle Buck to correct any adverse entries on Miss Ws 
credit file, so far as it is able to do so. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. It must  give Miss W a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  dated 4 March  2019, I uphold 
Miss Ws complaint in part. 
Uncle Buck  Finance LLP should put things right for Miss W in the way I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision on or before 21 April 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41078993the main part of the provisional decision dated 4 March 2019
background
Uncle Buck appears to have recorded a loan which  was cancelled by Miss W in or around January 
2016. I have no details of it and as it did not proceed and was fourteen months  before Miss Ws April 
2017 loan then I do not think it is particularly  relevant to this complaint. 
Uncle Buck approved two loans for Miss W in 2017. Loan 1 was for £400  approved on 1 April 2017 
and repayable  in three instalments: About  £187  in April and in May 2017 and about  £181 in 
June 2017. This loan was repaid in full and on time.
Loan 2 was approved on 3 October  2017 for £600 (after Miss W had applied for £700) and it was due 
to be repaid in three instalments: about £275 in October and in November  2017 and about  £268 in 
December 2017. Loan 2 has an outstanding balance  on it. 
Miss W complained to Uncle Buck on 13 October 2017, less than two weeks after taking Loan 2 and 
before the first repayment  was due on 19 October 2017. Miss W received Uncle  Bucks final response 
letter dated 4 December 2017 and brought her complaint to us soon afterwards.  
In the meantime a regular payment from Miss W to Uncle  Buck had been arranged  for Loan 2 and 
commenced around 13 January 2018.  Around 20 January 2018 Uncle Buck confirmed that it would 
alter the outstanding balance figure to be that referred to in its final response letter dated 4 December 
2017. 
At the end of January 2018 Miss W used a debt advice charity to arrange a debt plan for all of her 
creditors including Uncle Buck. 
Our adjudicator considered  the complaint. Her first opinion was that Uncle  Buck had carried out 
proportionate checks and had lent responsibly.  
Miss W disagreed and sent many detailed submissions including a summary, part of which is set out 
here: The search of my Callcredit  credit file revealed the significant  number of payday loans I had 
taken out in the immediate previous months and for many years and this should have prompted 
further enquiries.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the complaint again and her second opinion differed. Her opinion was that 
as Uncle Buck had carried out extensive credit bureau searches then its likely it had a lot of 
information on Miss Ws financial situation. Our adjudicator, having reviewed those  results, 
considered that this information showed Miss W to have a lot of debt and outstanding  loans  and these  
could not be ignored. 
The new opinion  was that Uncle Buck ought to put things right for Miss W in relation  to both Loans 1 
and 2. Following this, Uncle  Buck wanted additional information. Our adjudicators  third view 
addressed its queries. Uncle Buck responded by addressing many other detailed points  and 
explaining that the different credit reports it had obtained, copies of which had been sent to us, 
duplicated a lot of Miss Ws history. 
Our adjudicators fourth opinion seems to accept  this aspect of Uncle  Bucks explanations (the 
duplication). Her new review  demonstrated different  figures but she came to the same conclusion   
upholds in relation to Loans 1 and 2. 
Uncle Buck disagreed and gave further reasons why. It also offered to resolve the complaint by 
conceding in relation to Loan 2. It said in relation  to Loan 2 however, we could  have better  
considered [Miss Ws] revolving credit commitments, and the fact that she declared  increased 
expenditure and had applied  for an increase in advance. 
Ref: DRN41078994That offer in relation to Loan 2 to resolve  the complaint has been put to Miss W who has rejected  it. 
As the complaint remains  unresolved it has been passed to me to decide. But in view of Uncle  Bucks 
concession for Loan 2, I do not plan to review it. I will focus  on Loan 1 in this decision. 
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  is fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I have taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Before lending  money  to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand whether  
the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a sustainable manner without it 
adversely impacting on their financial  situation.  
A lender  should gather  enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on the 
lending. Although the guidance and rules  themselves did not set out compulsory checks, they did list 
a number of things  a lender could take into account before agreeing  to lend. The key element  was 
that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a number of different things,  
including how much  was being lent and when the sum being borrowed was due to be repaid. 
Loan 1 
Uncle Buck says it received information from Miss W in April 2017 to say that her takehome  was 
£1,600 each  month   it checked this with a credit  bureau which it says confirmed  this income to be 
accurate. I have seen that report result. Miss Ws employment was verified by Uncle Buck. Miss W 
told Uncle Buck her marital status was Living  together and that she was a Private tenant . 
Miss W provided to Uncle  Buck  her monthly expenditure figure which  it has recorded  as £1,133 which 
included £350 sum for Store/Credit Cards  and £500 for Mortgage and Fixed Loans. Later the £500 
expenditure figure Miss W declared was confirmed by her to have been for a loan. 
In April 2017  I think  that Uncle  Buck  would have known that Miss W had no mortgage  from her own 
application details and its own credit bureau search results. So on Miss Ws own application data 
Uncle Buck had been  told that she was spending £850 a month on credit commitments.  This equated 
to about 50% of her declared  net income  which it had verified as being  the correct  figure. 
The affordability  figure  it calculated was £467  being this declared expenditure subtracted from the 
income figure. 
Uncle Buck explained that the credit bureau search results did not give us reason to decline the 
application. It also explained  that it used a modern system which  is a real time industry  specific data 
sharing service. Uncle Buck  says that this meant it was satisfied it had Miss Ws most up to date 
credit record when she made  both applications. And Uncle Buck  did point  out that the market  it lends 
in is that of the high-cost short-term variety and so some  negative information  on a credit file would 
not automatically lead to a refusal. 
And its latest submissions  to us have explained  that it checked the RN reporting category  (total 
payments on all active accounts excluding  mortgages)  and it was reported as £834.  
A great  deal of information has circulated between the parties. I have reviewed  it all, including the 
detailed credit reports and the information and explanations Miss W has given us. 
Ref: DRN41078995In the end, taking all the information into account, I think that Uncle Buck was on notice from Miss Ws 
declared figures and its own credit report results (the RN referred to above) that she was spending 
about 50% of her declared income on credit repayments. This is a high proportion  and I think ought to 
have prompted Uncle Buck  to scrutinise the credit bureau report information it had and which I have 
considered.
What I can see is that she had been borrowing for many years and an example of where she had 
been consolidating debt appears at least twice  on the credit  bureau result  report carried out in April 
2017. 
One example is some  credit  was approved for about £6,000 which commenced December 2016,  the 
same month  in which another loan earlier had ended. Its likely she used the later loan to repay the 
earlier and increase  her credit. A second example is where she obtained credit in June 2016 which  
ended February 2017 but may have been substituted by another loan which commenced  in February 
2017. 
So the combined factors of what Uncle Buck had been told by Miss W, what  Uncle Buck  has told me it 
had seen from its own credit search results and what those same results  demonstrate have  given me 
an overall picture to assist me in making  a provisional decision about  this complaint.  It seems fairly 
clear to me that Miss W was in need of credit all the time and may well have been consolidating loans 
and/or increasing the credit levels with new loans within a short  time of taking out earlier loans. These 
all point to the fact that this Loan 1 was likely borderline  affordable and additional questions  ought to, 
and I think could,  have been asked.  I think  additional  enquiries likely would have led to a different  
lending decision.
I have concluded that Uncle Buck obtained  the credit search results and so cannot ignore some of the 
information those results produced which on any reading  demonstrates a long term reliance on credit 
and what looks to have been a tendency to consolidate loans and to increase her limits  and capital 
balances wherever possible. 
I am planning  to uphold Miss Ws complaint in relation to Loan 1. 
Loan 2 
For Loan  2 Uncle Buck has offered to refund the interest  and the charges for Loan 2. I endorse that 
together with a requirement that Miss Ws credit file is amended to remove any adverse payment 
information in relation  to it. So I include  it in the putting things right  section below for completeness. 
complaint handling and interest  accrual
Miss W has another aspect to her complaint which has not been addressed and so I rectify  that here.  
In the early days of the history of this complaint Miss W says that Uncle  Buck refused to assist  with 
the accruing interest  on Loan  2.
Miss W requested in her original complaint  email  on 13 October 2017 that no payments were  taken 
from her account until you have investigated my complaint and provided me with a written response.
Uncle Bucks  final response letter said I note that you have a balance outstanding of £818.65.  I will 
continue to hold your account until the close  of business on 18 December  2017, to allow you to 
contact the Collections Department.
Miss W offered to pay £20 a month  and again asked Uncle Buck to stop adding interest. 
I have seen the email  correspondence between the parties during the period  October and 
December 2017 and in January 2018, and I have been given the Uncle Buck contemporaneous 
account notes. 
Ref: DRN41078996And Uncle Buck addresses  this part in its submissions to us and says after our final response was 
issued, Miss Ws outstanding loan continued to accrue interest. She was unhappy about this and we 
honoured the outstanding balance  stated  in our final response, which  is also reflected in the current 
repayment arrangement.
Together the correspondence,  notes and submissions show me that this element  on accrual of 
interest while the complaint proceeded was rectified. I think that Uncle Bucks succinct  explanation  set 
out above  is what happened, and this was resolved in or about December 2017. 
And now that Uncle Buck  has conceded  in relation to Loan 2 then I think  this aspect will become 
somewhat academic as it has agreed to refund to Miss W any interest and charges  paid on this loan. 
As for Uncle  Bucks complaint handling in general, I think that it has complied within  the times and 
stipulations required of it by the rules governing the handling of complaints. So I do not uphold  this 
part of Miss Ws complaint.  
the extract of the provisional decision ends here
Ref: DRN4107899