K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont  refund him £500 after a cash  
machine failed to dispense  this to him. 
background
Mr M has a current account with NatWest. 
On the 3 January 2019, Mr M tried to withdraw  £500 from his NatWest  account, using a cash 
machine owned  by another bank, which Ill refer to as Bank  T. He says his card was retained 
and he didnt receive the money, but £500  was later debited  from his account.
Mr M says that instead of debiting the money hed requested,  the cash machine retained his 
card and the cash dispenser  opened  very briefly which wasnt  long enough for the cash to be 
presented. A nearby  member of the public  advised  him to press buttons  on the screen to see 
if his card would  be returned,  but this wasnt successful. Mr M says he then contacted 
NatWest to inform them  that his card had been retained and ordered  a new one. He later 
noticed, via online banking, that the £500  he hadnt received  had been  debited from his 
account. 
NatWest contacted Bank T who provided them  with information to show nothing  unusual had 
been reported with the machine  that day. And the machine had balanced  at the end of the 
day, without any surplus  funds. So NatWest  didnt refund the money to Mr M. After Mr M 
complained NatWest reviewed their decision  and although they reached the same 
conclusion, in saying  they couldnt  identify an error  with the machine that day, they paid 
Mr M £50 compensation  as a gesture of good  will.
Mr M wasnt happy with NatWests response so complained to our service. An investigator 
looked into Mr Ms complaint. She didnt think that NatWest  had acted unfairly in declining 
Mr Ms claim. And was satisfied that there wasnt enough evidence  to indicate theyd been  a 
problem with the machine that day. 
Mr M didnt  accept our investigators opinion.  Mr M said:
-He understands  that cash machines dont dispense cash until the card has been 
released.
-Hes seen videos which show that fraudsters can install cash  traps in very short 
periods of time and at the time of the incident there was plenty of time for the 
fraudsters to obtain his cash.
As Mr M didnt agree its been passed to me for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so I dont think NatWest 
need to do anymore here, Ill explain  why below. 
Ref: DRN42765052The cash  machine that Mr M used  wasnt owned by NatWest but by Bank T. Bank T have 
confirmed there were no problems reported  with the machine before or after the disputed  
transactions  and theres no evidence the machine was tampered with. Theyve also 
provided evidence  to show that the machine balanced  meaning there werent any surplus 
funds identified in the ATM   and a copy of the journal role which  gives a breakdown as to 
the transactions which took place before and after Mr Ms. 
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for NatWest to decline Mr Ms refund. 
This is because:
Bank T have evidenced that the ATM balanced  if Mr Ms funds werent dispensed,  
then Id have expected £500 surplus in the machine.
Ive thought about a whether a cash trap could have been installed  a device placed 
on the machine  that catches a customers cash when its dispensed. But I think  this is 
unlikely to have  happened in Mr Ms case. I say this because  I can see from the 
evidence Bank  T provided the transaction prior to Mr Ms ended  36 seconds before.  
And I dont think its likely a cash trap could be installed in this time.  
Ive also thought about the location of the cash machine  where Mr M withdrew  his 
cash. Its an area where Id expect there to be a high amount of activity,  and 
consequently somewhere Id regard as high risk for a fraudster to target. 
The journal role shows  that Mr Ms cash was dispensed without any issues and his 
card wasnt  retained  in the machine  as he explained. I appreciate that Mr M believes 
this is what happened, and without  his card being released the cash couldnt be 
dispensed. Im not questioning Mr Ms account, but the evidence demonstrates his 
card wasnt  retained.  And I think its likely Mr M was instead distracted by the other 
members of the public  at the ATM   who managed to obtain his card and the £500.
In summary  I dont think theres  sufficient evidence to show the £500 Mr M attempted  to 
withdraw wasnt dispensed. And I think  on balance  its likely Mr M was distracted by the 
other members of the public at the cash machine who managed to obtain his card and cash. 
As a consequence this isnt something I can hold NatWest  liable  for. 
I realise this will be very disappointing for Mr M, but I dont think  NatWest need to do 
anymore here. And I wont be asking  them  to refund Mr M the £500.  
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr M to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4276505