K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) sent letters  about  
their mortgage which  contained their personal  data to an incorrect address. 
background
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage with Halifax. In February 2019  when they contacted Halifax 
regarding an ongoing mortgage settlement matter, it came  to light that Halifax had sent 
some letters to their previous address in error.  
Mr and Mrs M complained to Halifax as they say it had disclosed their personal and financial 
information to an unknown party. This caused  them upset and worry as theyre concerned 
their details could  be used for fraud.  
Halifax accepts that whilst  the majority of letters had been sent to Mr and Mrs Ms correct  
address, it had incorrectly sent some letters to their old address. Halifax  explained that it 
suspected the errors had occurred due to the migration of its consumers  details from an old 
system to a new one. 
Halifax offered £300 compensation for its error and, although it ensured Mr and Mrs M that it 
had put robust security  measures in place to prevent  the misuse of their data, it also offered 
£165 to cover the cost of a 12 month subscription to the Credit  Reference Agency. 
Mr and Mrs M were  unhappy with Halifaxs response so they brought their complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators looked  into the complaint but didnt uphold  it. She thought 
Halifaxs offer was fair as Mr and Mrs M hadnt suffered any financial loss. She also noted  
that the letters contained details of outstanding mortgage payments  rather than any personal  
details - and that Halifax had put in extra security  precautions. She said that if Mr and Mrs M 
had further concerns about their data then they could contact the Information  
Commissioners Office  (ICO). 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They said Halifax had breached their duty to keep their data safe 
on multiple occasions, it couldnt say the detail of the data shared and the migration of its 
system mustve affected lots of its customers. 
As Mr and Mrs M disagreed, the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. I understand this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr and Mrs M, but Ill explain  my reasons why.
I understand Mr and Mrs M are concerned  that Halifax breached the relevant  data protection  
legislation, by sending  letters about their mortgage  to an incorrect  address. And theyve said 
its mistake has caused them upset.
Its important to explain that this services  role isnt to decide if a business  has breached data 
protection laws.  This is for the Information Commissioners Office to decide.  But where a 
business has acknowledged it sent some  letters to the wrong address, I can consider what 
Ref: DRN43764202impact its duty to keep  information confidential  has had on a consumer. And whether the 
business should pay compensation for the trouble and upset its actions have caused as a 
result. 
Halifax has agreed to pay an amount of £300  compensation  to Mr and Mrs M for sending 
letters to the wrong  address, and a further  £165  to cover the costs of a 12 month  
subscription to the Credit  Reference Agency, this is so Mr and Mrs M could monitor  their 
credit rating for any fraudulent activities. So, in this case, I need to decide  whether Halifax  
acted fairly  or not in the compensation it has offered to pay Mr and Mrs M, and whether it 
needs to do any more. 
Halifaxs internal  notes suggest that the errors  may have been  caused by the migration from 
one system  to another but it cant be sure due to the time that has passed.  Its also not clear 
how many  letters were  sent in error, but Halifax has sent me the ones which it is aware of. 
Having looked  at these, it contained their names, the mortgage account number and 
outstanding balances.  
I appreciate finding  out about the errors  caused Mr and Mrs M some distress  and worry  
especially because Halifax hasnt been clear about  how many  letters  have been sent to the 
wrong address.  Documents containing  Mr and Mrs Ms personal information have been sent 
to the wrong address and naturally theyre  worried this could result  in them becoming a 
victim of fraud. I think this is a legitimate concern.  My understanding is that to date there  has 
fortunately been no evidence of fraud as a result of this. So while I understand 
Mr and Mrs Ms concern that there remains the possibility  that there may be fraud  in the 
future, this hasnt  happened.  Im unable to direct  Halifax to pay Mr and Mrs M compensation 
for something which hasnt happened. But I understand that this concern adds to the impact 
the mistakes have had on them.
Halifax has addressed  any concerns Mr and Mrs Ms have going forward by offering to pay 
for a 12 month subscription to the Credit Reference  Agency so they can check  their credit  
file for any unusual activity. And Halifax has also explained that its put in place additional  
security precautions. This includes ensuring  that its call verification process only takes  into 
consideration Mr and Mrs Ms current correspondence address. This is entirely sensible. 
Taking everything into consideration, I think what Halifax has agreed  to do to resolve this 
complaint is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. It recognises  its mistake  has 
caused Mr and Mrs M a great  deal of worry and that theyve had to take steps to deal with 
the situation. But Ive also taken account  of what other steps the bank  has taken to resolve 
the issue, such as the 12 month subscription  to the Credit Reference Agency. 
I realise Mr and Mrs M still have serious  concerns about Halifaxs  compliance with the 
Data Protection Act. But this service  is designed to resolve problems in individual  cases  and 
is not a regulator. We dont  punish  businesses for their mistakes  or tell them how to change 
their processes. So I realise  this decision wont be able to deal with all of their concerns.  
Ref: DRN43764203my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as 
Halifax) needs to pay £300 compensation and a further £165 to cover  the costs  for a 
subscription to the Credit  Reference Agency, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2019.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4376420