K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a mortgage  payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about the sale of a regular premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage 
in 1997. The monthly cost of the policy was £10.40  and it provided a monthly benefit of £200 
in the event of a successful claim if Mrs M was unable to work because  of an accident, 
sickness or unemployment. The policy also included carers cover.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint as they didnt think  the policy was mis-sold. But 
they thought that Santander should pay back some of the cost of the policy. This was 
because it got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  which it should  have  told Mrs M about.  Because Santander didnt tell Mrs M, 
they thought that was unfair. 
Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  and remained of the opinion  that the PPI 
policy was mis-sold.
Santander then paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M. This was for the high level 
of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) it received  and didnt 
tell Mrs M about. 
Santander offered  compensation of £378.52. This was made  up of £190.34 for the excess 
commission that Mrs M was charged  on the PPI premiums and £188.18 (after tax) to 
compensate her for being  out of pocket of this money.
Mrs M thought this was low and was unhappy as Santander hadnt explained how the 
compensation had been  worked out.
One of our adjudicators asked Santander  for confirmation of how the commission 
compensation had been  calculated. After reviewing the information  Santander provided, she 
considered that it had worked out the compensation fairly. 
Our adjudicator wrote out to Mrs M explaining how the compensation had been worked and 
that she thought  it had been done  correctly  and Santander didnt need to do anything  further.  
As Mrs Ms complaint still remains unresolved,  and she still considers the PPI policy was 
fully mis-sold it has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case. 
I will look at Mrs Ms complaint in two parts. 
Ref: DRN42566792First I will consider whether the PPI policy was mis-sold. 
Second, whether Santanders  offer of compensation for the unfair level of commission  and 
profit share it received,  is fair.
the sale of the PPI policy in 1997
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint  about the sale of the PPI policy.  Ill explain 
why.
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Ms mortgage application form. The form has been completed  by the 
adviser and records  all of Mrs Ms personal  and financial information.  There  is a section 
called Insurance . Within this section, Mortgage Payment Cover (PPI) has been selected. A 
monthly benefit amount of £200  has been  added in the box next to the PPI. I also note that 
HomeCover Extra has also been  selected.  I think it is likely that these were added  as a 
result of a conversation  that Mrs M had with the adviser at the time. 
Mrs M says she had to have the PPI in order to get the mortgage.  But I also have  to bear in 
mind that the sale of this policy happened over 20 years ago. And while  I appreciate Mrs M 
is trying  to provide  her best recollection of the sale, I think its just as likely she was told she 
should consider  taking  out PPI rather than she had to. 
Overall, based on all the available evidence and taking  into account the paperwork Ive seen,  
I cant fairly say she wasnt given a real choice whether to take out the insurance.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mrs M, and it seems to have been right for her based 
on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
I can see that Mrs M was eligible for the policy and its unlikely she would have been 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. 
Mrs M says she received good  benefits from her employer if she was off work  sick and so 
didnt need the policy.
But taking a mortgage is large,  long term financial commitment. And borrowers stand to lose 
their home if they dont  keep up with repayments.  I also note that Mrs M was solely  
responsible for the mortgage repayments. The PPI would have protected Mrs Ms mortgage 
for up to 12 months per claim,  if she was unable to work due to an accident  or sickness. And 
it would  have paid out in addition to any work  benefits, meaning she could use her work 
benefits or savings  for any other priorities.  The policy  would have also paid out for up to 12 
months per claim if she lost her job which could have been a useful benefit at what would be 
a difficult time. 
So, all things considered,  I think the cover could have  provided a useful benefit and I cant 
fairly say that the advisers recommendation was unsuitable.
Im not sure that Mrs M was given all of the information about the PPI policy at the time it 
was taken out, for example I cant  be sure how clearly the cost and benefit  were explained. 
But I think she chose to take out the policy so it appears that she wanted  this type of cover. 
The policy was suitable for her and I dont think theres anything  in the information she didnt  
have that would have put her off taking  it out. So I think  that she would have taken  it if she 
had all of the right information.
Ref: DRN42566793Ive taken into account and given careful  consideration to what Mrs M has said about the 
sale, but for the reasons  given above;  these points  dont change my mind.
Overall, I dont  think Santander mis-sold Mrs M PPI in 1997.
what has Santander offered?
Santander has offered  to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because:  
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about  that. Because  Santander didnt tell Mrs M, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
I know that, after receiving Santanders  offer of compensation,  Mrs M felt the amount was 
low. And she was unsure how Santander  had worked it out.
I agree  that Santanders letter isnt the clearest  and only tells Mrs M the amount that it will 
be paying her. But having now reviewed what Santander has offered, I would like to assure 
Mrs M that it has been worked  out correctly. 
Santander worked out the commission offer by looking at the PPI premium Mrs M was 
charged each month and working out what the commission and profit  share rate was on 
each premium. And if Mrs M paid anything above 50% in commission or profit  share, 
Santander has refunded this back. And Santander  has added 8% simple interest (per year)  
on any amounts that Mrs M overpaid  as compensation  for her being out of pocket of that 
money.
Having looked  at its offer, it includes everything  I would expect to see. Santander doesnt 
need to do anything further.
I note that when Mrs M contacted Santander  initially to complain about being  mis-sold PPI, it 
said that it couldnt trace her account.  Santander  has offered £50 for compensation for its 
error and the delay  this caused.  I think this is a fair amount in the circumstances and Im glad 
that Santander recognised its error.  I dont  know if this compensation has been paid. If it 
hasnt, Santander  should go ahead and pay this to Mrs M.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
I am unsure as to whether this has been paid. If it hasnt, Santander UK Plc should go ahead 
and pay Mrs M, ensuring the compensation is brought up to date. 
Ref: DRN42566794And if it hasnt done so already, Santander UK Plc should also pay £50 compensation for its 
errors when  Mrs M first got in contact to complain about PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4256679