K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy about the settlement offered by U K Insurance  Limited  for his broken oven 
claim under his home insurance policy.
background
Mr D made  a claim for his oven. UKI appointed experts to deal with the claim but there were 
difficulties reaching  an agreement over an appropriate replacement oven or the cash  value. 
Mr D said the replacement oven  UKI offered wasnt of the same quality and didnt have the 
same features. He also said the cash offer was too low to get a suitable  replacement so he 
had to pay out more for the replacement.  Unhappy with this Mr D brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said UKI had settled the claim in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. Although he accepted the appointed experts had made  
some mistakes in the beginning  UKI had dealt  with the mistakes and apologised. He noted 
Mr D had provided UKI with a like for like cost at just over £1,000  and UKI agreed to settle at 
this amount minus  the £200 policy excess. Vouchers to this value were provided  and our 
investigator said this was fair. He said as repair or an exact replacement wasnt  available  
UKI had dealt with claim reasonably. Mr D didnt accept this and asked  for his complaint to 
be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has said that he thinks the terms and conditions of the policy  are unclear and 
ambiguous. The UKI policy wording  says as follows:
How we settle claims
For any item of contents that is Iost or damaged we will chose whether to
 replace or repair the item or part
 pay the cost of replacing or repairing the item or part up to the amount it would have cost 
us to replace or repair using our own suppliers, or
 make a cash  payment
We won't pay more than the amount  it would  have cost us to replace or repair using our own 
suppliers.
Im afraid I dont think the terms  are unclear or ambiguous. I think  these are standard terms 
that Mr D wouldve encountered if hed made  claim for the same  thing  with most major UK 
insurers.
It seems  to be accepted  that the broken oven  couldnt  be replaced with the exact same 
model as it was no longer available. Its also accepted that the experts UKI appointed did 
initially get the valuation wrong but once Mr D was in contact with UKI this issue was dealt 
with. UKI apologised for any errors  and increased  the offer. I think  UKI settled the claim with 
vouchers based  on the figure  it had discussed  with Mr D in relation to the closest  available  
equivalent ovens.  This was for just over £1,000 minus the £200 excess  so its a reasonable 
amount and in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN49234852Mr D has now said that he needed a settlement amount around £1,700 to put him back in 
the position he was prior to the loss. But that isnt the amount previously discussed with UKI 
and it settled the previous amount. Mr D said he ended up with a final additional cost of 
£236. But based on what Ive seen I think UKI settled the claim reasonably.
Mr D is perfectly  entitled to show UKI details of why it should  consider his additional costs so 
it can review these.  Also Mr D can raise his concerns with the regulator the 
Financial Conduct  Authority about  this issue regarding  home  insurance  policies.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4923485