K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that British Gas Insurance  Limited gave poor service under a home 
emergency insurance policy.
background
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold it responsible.
Mrs F had a British Gas HomeCare insurance  policy. She complained  that British  Gas took 
too long to identify and fix a leak of gas.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think that 
British Gas had done  anything wrong.
Mrs F disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says,  in summary,  that:
She had been  telling British Gas for quite a few years about a leak. 
Her calls to British Gas were regarding  her high gas bills. She did mention a gas leak 
a few times as the cause of the high bills.
For years there was a risk of gas exploding.
For years she had a leak behind her gas cooker  and so very high bills.
British Gas didnt  find the leak.
Another gas company  fitted  the gas meter  and detected the leak.  
Mrs F told British  Gas where the gas leak was.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the renewal letter from July 2016,  I see that Mrs F had cover for her central heating,  
home electrics and plumbing and drainage.
From a letter in March 2017,  I see that Mrs F added kitchen appliance  cover  for her cooker. 
And in May 2017 British Gas replaced  some gas burners on her cooker. 
Although she hasnt given details of whom she told and when, I accept Mrs Fs statement 
that she had mentioned high gas bills.
From the renewal letters from July 2017  and July 2018 I see that Mrs F again had cover for 
her central heating,  home electrics and plumbing and drainage.  I dont think she had cover 
for her cooker. But the British Gas policy  terms say that the central  heating  cover included 
cover for her gas supply  pipe. And I think that included the part of her gas supply pipe 
behind her cooker. 
In August  2018  the gas infrastructure company told Mrs F she had leaking gas pipework 
behind her cooker. 
 
Ref: DRN46078022I can see that Mrs F may have thought  that British Gas had left leaking pipework  in May 
2017.
But if Mrs F had really  thought she had a gas leak I wouldve expected  her to have dialled 
the emergency number as soon  as she formed that view. And in August 2018 the 
infrastructure company  had done  some  work  to the gas meter.  
So I dont  think theres enough evidence that there  was any gas leak before the work to the 
gas meter. And Im satisfied that British Gas made  the leaking pipework safe on 10 August 
2018 and replaced it on 15 August 2018.
Therefore I dont find British Gas responsible  for any gas leak.  And I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct  British Gas to pay Mrs F compensation  or to do anything else in 
response to this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4607802