K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited unfairly declined his claim for a lost 
watch.
background
Mr Ks watch  was specified on his home insurance policy  for £11,953. He believes the watch  
was accidentally thrown out with other  items, after being left on the side at his home. 
Admiral appointed loss adjusters to assess the claim. Because  the item wasnt  being worn or 
kept in a locked safe at the time of the incident, the loss adjusters declined the claim based 
on the following  policy endorsement: 
-c006  when not wearing your watch/item  of jewellery worth over £10,000, you must 
keep it in a locked safe that has a suitable cash rating or store  the item in the bank.
However, in the loss adjusters report it also noted  that there wasnt any indication in either 
Mr Ks policy  schedule  or the policy booklet  that the c006 endorsement applied to Mr Ks 
policy. But it accepted  the endorsement did apply based on Admirals  confirmation.
Mr K was unhappy with the claim decision.  He brought a complaint to this service,  which  was 
considered by one of our investigators. She thought  the claim had been unfairly declined on 
the basis the c006 endorsement  wasnt listed on Mr Ks schedule. She recommended £100 
compensation be paid to Mr K, and his claim be reconsidered in-line with the remaining 
policy terms. 
In response, Admiral  highlighted it had mistakenly  given  us Mr Ks previous policy  schedule  
which didnt cover the date of loss. It gave us the correct schedule,  and although the c006 
endorsement still wasnt listed, it pointed  to the following  endorsement which was: 
-The maximum  we will pay for any one claim arising from loss or damage by theft or 
attempted theft for a single item of jewellery, watch or item of gold is £10,000 unless the 
article is: a) being worn by you; or b) in a securely fixed locked  safe that has a cash 
rating suitable for the value of the items kept inside it; or c) deposited  in a bank. Subject 
to the limits, terms, exceptions and conditions of your policy.
Our investigator considered the correct schedule but her outcome remained unchanged.  She 
said the endorsement applies to claims for theft or attempted theft, but Mr Ks item had been  
lost rather than stolen  so the endorsement  doesnt apply to his claim.  The endorsement also 
says that if the item isnt being  worn, kept in a safe or a bank deposit box, the most  Admiral 
will pay is £10,000. So she said even if the endorsement did apply,  Mr Ks claim should  be 
limited to £10,000 rather than be declined in full. 
Our investigator chased Admiral for a response to her further comments  on two occasions, 
but because this wasnt forthcoming  the case was escalated for a final decision from an 
ombudsman. Admiral  then explained  it would provide  further information for our 
consideration, but that was four months ago and nothing has been received.
As the deciding ombudsman,  I have since written to Admiral to give it a final opportunity to 
provide further  information for our consideration. I also explained that based on all the 
information we have been given  so far, I agree  with our investigators conclusions.  
Ref: DRN49676552However, I also explained that I dont consider £100 goes far enough in the circumstances of 
this case. I explained the unreasonable application of the endorsements have considerably  
delayed Mr Ks claim, and given  the claim value Im mindful this is likely to have caused 
considerable frustration and anxiety.  So I said I intended to increase the award  to £200.
Admiral has not responded and the deadline I gave it has since  passed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent been shown anything that confirms the c006  endorsement  applied  to Mr Ks policy; 
and for it to apply, I would need  to be satisfied  he was clearly notified  of it. The endorsement  
is not listed on his policy schedule relevant to the period  of loss.
I also havent seen  anything else in Mr Ks policy literature that explains his watch  had to be 
kept in a locked safe,  when not being worn. 
Furthermore, the actual  endorsement on Mr Ks policy schedule only refers to theft,  so I also 
dont consider that this applies to the reported  circumstances of Mr Ks loss  and even if it 
were to apply (for instance, should it later be determined the watch was more likely  stolen  
than thrown out), the endorsement only limits the claim  to £10,000 rather than excluding  
cover altogether.
So in conclusion, Im persuaded the c006 endorsement doesnt apply to Mr Ks policy,  and 
the endorsement on his policy schedule was wrongly applied.  Therefore, Im satisfied the 
claim was unfairly declined. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold this complaint.   
My final decision is Admiral  Insurance (Gibraltar)  Limited should compensate Mr K £200 and 
reconsider his claim subject to the remaining policy terms. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4967655