K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Canada Square  Operations Limited (trading as Egg) mis-sold  him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
The policy was added  to the card when  Mr D took out a credit card via the Egg website in 
2002. The policy cost £0.74 for every £100.00 of the credit  cards balance and in the event of 
a successful claim, could  have paid 10% of the monthly balance for up to 12 months  or until 
the outstanding balance  was repaid.  Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld.  
Egg disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed  to me.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 26 March 2019,  a copy of 
which is repeated  below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision 
I set out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 26 April 2019. At the time of writing  both parties told us that they 
had received the provisional decision. Egg has no further submissions they wish to make.  
Mr D reiterated some points he had previously made when bringing the complaint to us. So I 
am proceeding to my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ds case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
After reviewing all of the information provided in this complaint, I do not intend upholding 
Mr Ds complaint. I explain why below.
Ive considered the internet screens  Egg has provided. It seems that Mr D had to select  
either Yes to add PPI to his card,  or No not to. Egg has said Mr D wouldnt have been 
able to proceed with his application unless  he chose one of these options. Egg says that 
neither answer  was preselected for Mr D so he should have understood this was something  
he could say No to. So, overall, I think its likely Mr D selected Yes and did so knowing this 
was something he could have said No to, even if he doesnt  remember  that now,  many  
years later. 
Egg didnt  recommend that Mr D take the PPI, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. Instead Egg had to provide information  that was clear and not misleading so that Mr D 
could decide about the policy  for himself.  
Its possible the information Egg gave Mr D about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should have 
been - including the information about the cost of the policy.  But based on what I know about 
Mr Ds circumstances and the cost of the policy, I dont think better  information would have 
stopped him from buying it.
Ref: DRN42046482I say this because  Mr D was eligible for the policy, and he wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. In saying that, Ive considered that Mr D told us 
that he was diagnosed with a medical  condition as a child.  If the condition existed before the 
policy was sold to Mr D it may not have  been  covered by the policy  if it reoccurred. And that 
could have been an issue for a consumer. In this case Ive noted that Mr D was 28 at the 
time of the sale and he told us hed had the condition for 20 years by then. Mr D told us the 
condition had cost him no time off work. So Im not persuaded that this would have put Mr D 
off the policy  had he received better  information about the policy. 
And I think Mr D could  have found the policy useful. I say this because Mr D told us he 
couldnt recall what  sick pay he may have  been  entitled to, and he had only modest savings. 
But the policy could  have paid 10% of the balance  for up to 12 months if he was too ill to 
work, or if he lost his job. So as this would have  been in addition to whatever sick pay he 
may have  received, and as this would  have protected his savings, I think the policy  could 
have been useful to Mr D. 
So I dont  think that Mr D lost out as a result of anything Egg might have done wrong.
In replying to my provisional  decision, Mr D reiterated that he had a pre-existing medical 
condition and that he hadnt been told that he would  have  been prevented  from claiming for 
it. And Mr D told me that Egg had acknowledged  it had a flawed sales process. 
In its final response letter  to Mr D, Egg said, Whilst  we do not accept all of your allegations 
we do acknowledge  that there  may have been  flaws in our sales  process. Egg said there 
may have  been  flaws  in its process, not that there were flaws.  But Egg went on to consider 
whether Mr D had suffered any detriment as a result  of any failure to provide sufficient 
information before deciding  that hadnt happened. 
In my provisional decision (above) I said that I also thought it was possible that the 
information Egg provided might not have  been  sufficient to have put Mr D in a position to 
make an informed choice  about the policy, and that included the information about 
exclusions or limitations to the benefit.  I went on to say that, for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision, I didnt think that better  information about the policy  and its limitations to 
the benefit would have  put Mr D off from taking the policy.  
I thought about  these  points when issuing my provisional decision,  and I thought  about  them  
again in the light of Mr Ds response to it. I have considered all of the evidence  and 
arguments from the outset and from both parties  in order to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still do not think  that 
better information about the policy would have put Mr D off from taking it out. In the absence 
of any further points for me to consider,  I find no reason  to depart from my original  findings  
as set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not uphold  Mr Ds 
complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold, and I make no award  against  Canada Square 
Operations Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D either to 
accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing,  before  2 June 2019.
Ref: DRN42046483Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4204648