K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that a used car she acquired  via a hire purchase  agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS) wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
background
In February 2016  Miss M acquired a used car via a hire purchase agreement with VWFS. 
The car was around  two years old and had a mileage  of 15,047. The car had a 12 month 
warranty.
In January 2017 the car required a new clutch and this repair was carried  out under  the 
warranty. However in January 2018 when Miss M took the car for its service  she was 
advised that the cars release bearings  were faulty.  Miss M sought a second opinion which 
confirmed that the clutch  needed replacing for a second time.
Miss M complained to VWFS and said she thought it should be liable to cover the costs of 
the repairs as shed only travelled 5,000  miles in the car since  the clutch had been  replaced 
for the first time.
VWFS disagreed that it was liable. It said that due to the number of months that had passed 
before the clutch had needed repairing there  wasnt  any evidence the car had been faulty at 
the point of sale.
Miss M complained to this service. Our investigator  recommended that her complaint should  
be upheld. He said that a finance provider, in this case VWFS, can be responsible for the 
costs of repairs or replacements where  the goods  supplied werent of satisfactory quality, fit 
for purpose  or as described. And when considering satisfactory quality the age mileage 
and price paid for the car were taken into account as was appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor  defects, safety and durability. 
The cars clutch had first required replacing when it was just under three years old and had a 
mileage of 16,000.  The investigator  said that while he appreciated clutches were wearable 
items it was reasonable to expect that part to have lasted nearer 30,000 miles before 
needing repair. This suggested  that the clutch  had been developing a fault at the point  of 
sale as it didnt appear to satisfy the durability test. 
And the fact that the clutch had then required replacing for a second  time within  one year 
and after less than 5,000 miles had been driven meant  that either the repair  had been faulty 
or that the car itself had an underlying problem.
The investigator said he didnt think the car had been of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
sale and that it was reasonable for VWFS to cover  the costs of the repairs to the clutch.
VWFS disagreed with our investigators  view.  It said that the first issue with the thrust 
bearings didnt  arise until Miss M had had the car for nearly 12 months.  Following this repair  
it says that Miss M has now worn out the clutch for a second time. The clutch  is a wear  and 
tear item and any damage  could result  for Miss Ms driving style.
As the parties are unable  to agree  the complaint has been passed  to me. 
Ref: DRN49945872my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out by the investigator  under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (The Act) goods  
supplied must be of satisfactory quality, fit for purpose and as described. When considering 
whether the car supplied to Miss M was of satisfactory quality the Act says account should  
be taken of its state and condition  which means I should look at the age and mileage of the 
car. But the Act also says that safety and durability  may be aspects of the quality of the 
goods that should be considered.
Here the car was just under two years old with a low mileage. Whilst I appreciate car parts 
do deteriorate with age and use I think its fair to expect  parts  to last for a reasonable period 
of time depending  on how the car is used.
Clutches suffer from wear  and tear but the expectation is that they should last longer than 
16,000 miles which  was when Miss Ms car had needed repair. Miss M was advised  that the 
clutch needed repairing  for a second time just 12 months and 5,000 miles later. Miss M says 
this was confirmed  by two mechanics.
VWFS says the cause  of the clutch failing is likely to be due to Miss Ms driving style but I 
dont have any evidence  that this is the case.  The first repair  invoice doesnt give an opinion  
as to why the clutch failed  and I havent  seen an inspection report  about the second failure.
I dont think I can reasonably say that because a fault doesnt become apparent for several 
months it wasnt present  or developing at the point of sale. I need  to look at all the evidence 
before me and where  evidence  is missing  or contradictory I must decide  what I think  is the 
most likely thing to have happened.
In this case I think its reasonable  to have expected that the original clutch  wouldnt  have 
needed repair within the first year particularly considering the low mileage of the car. Its also 
reasonable to have  expected that the clutch, once fixed, wouldnt need replacing after one 
year and the car only having been driven for a further 5,000 miles.  
I think a fault with the car is more likely than driving style as a reason for the clutch needing  
repair on two occasions. Even with a poor driving  style Id still expect a new clutch to have 
lasted longer than 5,000 miles.  So I dont  think the original clutch was satisfactorily  durable  
and that its more likely than not that the car was either developing or had a fault at the point 
of sale. So the subsequent repair carried out under the warranty was either not properly 
completed or indicates that the car has an underlying fault.
As the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of sale then I think its fair and 
reasonable for VWFS to cover the cost of the second clutch repairs as the first repair failed.  
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Miss Ms complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Miss Ms complaint. Im asking Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to pay the cost of replacing the cars clutch.
Ref: DRN49945873Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4994587