K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint is that Admiral Markets  UK Ltd (Admiral) misled him on the application of 
the European Securities and Markets  Authority (ESMA) rules to his Contracts  for 
Differences (CFD) positions. He also says he was unduly pressured  to apply for a 
professional account  and he claims  compensation for losses  incurred in the matter.
background
Available evidence  provides the following chronology:
29 May 2018  in an email to Mr C, Admiral said new ESMA rules  were forthcoming 
and would affect retail  clients trading in Forex  and CFDs; that one of the effects  will 
be a new restriction upon maximum leverage  (between 1:30 and 1:2) permitted to 
such clients in such trades;  that this would not affect professional clients; and that it 
will need  to increase its margin requirements  (security deposits) for Forex and CFDs.
30 May 2018  in an email to Mr C, Admiral said it was continuing to look into the 
legal and technical effects of the forthcoming ESMA rules upon leverage 
requirements; it also said  there  is no obligation to become  a professional  client 
and that such  an upgrade  could be applied for at any time, even after the new rules.
7 June 2018  Mr C wrote to Admiral, referred to the new rules due to apply from 30 
July that year and queried whether (or not) they would be retroactive (applying to 
positions opened before 30 July).  In Admirals response, it confirmed that the new 
rules will be applied to positions  previously opened (before  30 July).
13 June 2018   in an email to Mr C, Admiral explains  its Markets Pro service,  which  
it said was designed to give professional clients some added protection, given that 
they would  be beyond the remit of the forthcoming ESMA  rules; the email also 
clarifies that the maximum leverage restrictions that will apply to retail  accounts will 
prevent high risk/return  strategies  in those  accounts.
27 June 2018   Admiral emailed  Mr C formal  notice of the forthcoming ESMA  rules, 
including summaries  of what the new rules  were; confirmation that they will be 
applied to retail  clients  from 30 July and applied retroactively; confirmation that they 
will not apply to professional clients; and notice  that he will need to increase his 
margin/security deposits on relevant positions due to the changes.
3 July 2018  Admiral  emailed Mr C to confirm its receipt of his application for 
professional client  status. It appears his application was approved  the following day.
31 July 2018   Mr C emailed Admiral, saying  he had learnt  that the ESMA rules  did 
not have to be applied retroactively, that Admiral misled him in this respect and that 
he was also pressured by Admiral to apply  for the professional client status.
Admiral disputes the complaint and says it complied with the ESMA rules and with the terms 
and conditions of Mr Cs account. One of our investigators considered the complaint and 
broadly agreed  with Admiral. He said he could not reasonably conclude, from evidence, that 
Mr C was pressured to become  a professional client or was misled in the matter   especially 
as high-risk warnings were given to him as part of the professional  client  application process.
Mr C disagreed with this outcome. He said Admirals representations to him at the relevant 
time were based wholly upon the ESMA  rules and that it did not refer to the terms and 
conditions of the account. He maintained  his claims and argued that the ESMA rules did not 
require retroactive application. The investigator  said the rules gave Admiral discretion to 
apply them retroactively.  
Ref: DRN42954172Mr C said his complaint is that Admiral  misrepresented the ESMA rules.  He argued that the 
relevant contractual term gave it the right to change  margin  requirements where market 
conditions are extraordinary, but such conditions neither existed nor were they caused by 
the ESMA rules; that Admiral did not have  to change the margin requirements in his retail 
account but did so because it wanted  to; and that by doing so, without  his consent and 
without support from the terms  of the account, it unfairly acted against his interests.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ESMAs guidance  on its 2018 rules for retail investor  protection (including the maximum 
leverage and margin  close out rules) provided  that the rules for retail  client accounts trading 
CFDs were  mandatory from 1 August 2018 (for new positions). Firms across the sector 
worked towards ensuring their operations were complaint by this start date. ESMA gave 
them a qualified discretion to apply,  without customers consents, the rules to existing 
positions that remained open  on that date, so long as they gave prior notice of their intention  
to do so and the relevant terms and conditions  allowed them to do so.
Mr C says that, upon Admirals initial notices about the forthcoming changes, he did not have 
additional funds  to deposit into his account  to match the new margin  requirement. Evidence  
suggests that this factor,  and his wish to keep his trades open, provided the main or only 
pressure upon  him to consider applying  for professional client status.  Like the investigator,  I 
too have not seen evidence that he was unduly  pressured by Admiral  to become a 
professional client.  I referred, above, to Admirals email (to Mr C) of 30 May 2018 in which it 
said there was no obligation upon him to apply for that status.  Overall,  I consider that the 
pressure Mr C refers to was self-imposed.
The next matter  to determine  is whether (or not) Admiral misrepresented the application  of 
the ESMA rules and, in the course of doing so, created the circumstances that misled Mr C 
into such self-imposed pressure. As I said above, firms had the qualified  discretion to apply 
the rules retroactively without the customers consent. Mr C says Admiral  did so simply 
because it wanted  to and not because it needed to, but that is what  the qualified discretion 
permitted. So long as a firm gave prior notice and was compliant with the relevant terms of 
the account, it could apply  the rules retroactively.
As summarised in the chronology above, Admiral  gave Mr C ample  prior notice  about  
changing the margin requirements  in his retail account in order to match  ESMAs  maximum 
leverage restrictions. With regards to the terms and conditions of his account, the relevant 
term (under clause 8) does not depend  on market conditions (or extraordinary market 
conditions) as he has argued. It simply reserves Admirals right to change margin 
requirements at any time.  The terms were  active throughout  Mr Cs operation of his 
account. ESMAs guidance  said it would not be in a clients best interests if a firm applied its 
discretion without meeting the qualification  (that is, prior notice and compliance with existing 
terms and conditions). Admiral met that qualification in Mr Cs case and I do not consider 
that it acted against  his best interests,  especially as the rules were  designed to reduce high 
risk exposure for retail clients (as he was). 
Ref: DRN42954173Mr C argues that the new rules did not require  a client to post additional margin for existing 
positions, but the argument misses the effect  of Admirals contractual  right to change  margin  
requirements at any time. It exercised that right, so the new margin  requirement applied from 
when it became effective  and it would then have been Mr Cs responsibility  to either manage 
his positions accordingly or add funds to meet  the new requirement. That would have been 
the reality of the situation. It was not a matter  of Mr C being  forced by Admiral to add funds 
to his account. He had the alternative option  of closing the relevant  positions.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject  my decision 
before 6 March  2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4295417