K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). Allianz Insurance  Plc, as 
the insurer, has taken  responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple,  Ill only refer to 
Allianz in the decision, rather than any other business.
background
Mrs L bought  the policy  in 1993,  at the same time as taking out a charge  card.  
The policy covered Mrs L if she was off work sick or lost her job. If shed needed to claim, 
Allianz wouldve  looked at what Mrs Ls outstanding balance was when she stopped working. 
And it wouldve paid off 15% of that balance  every month she was out of work, until her 
balance was cleared. 
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Ls complaint didnt uphold  the complaint.  Mrs L 
disagrees with the adjudicators opinion, so her complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. I know this will disappoint  her 
but I hope the reasons  Im about to give help her to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Mrs L says she was pressured into buying  the PPI. She asks, if there was no pressure why 
would the charge card application form strongly recommend the cover? Im afraid  I dont 
think these words, which were printed on an application form, mean Allianz didnt give Mrs L 
a real choice  about taking  out the cover.  And Mrs L doesnt give us any other information to 
support why she says she was pressured.  What Mrs L says about this isnt strong enough 
evidence on its own to make me think it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude Allianz 
was likely to have placed unfair  pressure  on her to take out the PPI. 
Ive looked at the charge  card application form Mrs L signed. I can see theres a tick to say 
she wants PPI, and her name  and date of birth have been filled in in the section about PPI. If 
Mrs L hadnt wanted the cover, I think this section wouldve been left blank and PPI wouldnt 
have been added to her account. All of this evidence makes me think  that, at the time, its 
likely Mrs L agreed to the PPI knowing she had a choice  about it (although  I appreciate this 
isnt how she remembers things).
Mrs L says the PPI was recommended  to her, pointing to the strongly recommend wording 
on the application form. I dont agree. I dont think Allianz gave Mrs L a personal,  tailored 
recommendation based on an assessment of her needs and circumstances to take PPI. I 
think the strongly recommended wording is generic and wasnt  tailored to Mrs L. So I dont  
think Allianz had to make sure the PPI was right for Mrs L in her particular circumstances. 
However, Allianz did have  to give Mrs L enough  clear information about the policy  in 
particular about  the cost,  benefits and main  exclusions/restrictions  in it  so she could decide 
for herself  if the PPI was right for her. Its probable the information Allianz gave Mrs L wasnt  
Ref: DRN46168602as clear as it should have  been. But this in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold. I have 
to go on and consider  whether clearer and better information would have put Mrs L off taking 
the PPI out. 
I dont think better information  would have put Mrs L off the policy. I say this because  based 
on what she says of her circumstances at the time and the policy details Ive got:
The PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any existing benefits Mrs L and would have 
done so until the outstanding balance had been  paid off. 
The PPI was of a relatively  low cost and I havent seen anything  that makes  me think 
it wouldve been unaffordable to Mrs L at the time of the sale.
Mrs L doesnt appear to have  been affected by the main  exclusions/restrictions  in the 
policy and so it looks like she couldve made a successful claim under the policy  if 
she needed to. 
Mrs L could have  cancelled the policy at any time without  losing out financially. I 
know Mrs L says she wasnt aware  she could cancel the policy  but I think its likely  
Allianz gave her policy details either at the time or shortly  afterwards that wouldve  
explained her cancellation rights to her.
Finally, Mrs L says that, after she bought the PPI, she became self-employed.  She says she 
didnt get any updates  from Allianz  to tell her this might mean the PPI wasnt right for her any 
more. But Allianz  wasnt under  any obligation  to do this. I think  it was for Mrs L to look at her 
insurance arrangements to see if they were still right for her when her employment situation 
changed.
So, having  looked at everything, I dont think Allianz mis-sold Mrs L this PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4616860