K821x#15complaint
Mrs B has complained on behalf  of her son Mr B about 1 Answer Insurance Services Ltd. He 
isnt happy that his claim under his car insurance  policy was turned  down.
background
Mr B took out his car insurance policy through his broker 1 Answer. When his car was stolen 
in May 2018  his insurer turned down  his claim.  The insurer said that Mr B didnt have an 
insurable interest in the car. And that it wouldnt have  insured Mr B had it have been  aware 
that the car was registered  with a finance  company, that Mr Bs brother had taken the 
finance through his work and that it was a short term lease. So Mrs B complained to 1 
Answer and then this service.
Our adjudicator looked into things for Mr B. He was of the view that the complaint should be 
upheld. This was because he thought 1 Answer asked three questions at the same  time in 
relation to car ownership and use. And because he was satisfied that Mr B made it clear that 
he leased the car through his brothers work on a short term lease. So he thought 1 Answer  
should meet  Mr Bs claim;  pay him £250 compensation for the stress he has faced; and to 
ask the insurer  to remove any entries  in relation to the cancellation from any internal or 
external databases.
As 1 Answer  didnt agree the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think that the complaint 
should be upheld.  And Id like to explain why.
Mr Bs home address was broken into and his car was stolen after thieves forcibly got his car 
keys from the family safe. His claim was turned down for the reasons outlined  above. But 
Mr B said that he did have a financial interest in the car as he was paying for it by standing  
order (which he has evidenced); he was just doing this through his brother as he was able to 
get a favourable deal through his brothers employer.
As outlined  by the adjudicator Mr B made  it pretty clear to his broker  (1 Answer) that his car 
was a lease car when  he took out the policy. I say this as he talked  about  the fact that his 
brother works for a particular car manufacturer and so he gets this type of car for a lot less 
than you usually would.  And he suggested that he expected to change  the car after six 
months. As his broker Id expect 1 Answer to pick up on the information  Mr B provided  and 
give him professional  advice, especially  as he was already fully insured elsewhere and it 
was looking to tempt him to bring  his business across  to them  mid-term.
The insurer  says that it wouldnt have insured Mr B in these circumstances. But is clear that 
Mr B gave 1 Answer sufficient information  to advise him about this. Indeed,  I note that Mr B 
spoke to a manager at this time who said that he would happily waive any admin charge 
related to a change  of vehicle after six months.  And I think  the conversation  shouldve  
prompted the manager to probe  a little deeper  about Mr Bs circumstances. So Im satisfied 
that Mr B gave sufficient  information to his broker but the questions  asked of him werent 
detailed enough.
Ref: DRN45206252Furthermore, I would  expect questions asked of Mr B to be clear and I dont think  the 
questions around  ownership, registration and usage  were. I say this as 1 Answer asked  
about all three things in one question  and Mr B says that his focus was on the last part of the 
question in answering that he was the main  user,  which he was. I note that 1 Answer has 
changed the way it asks these questions since this claim  and it now asks about all three  
things as separate questions which is good to see. But it shouldve done this at the time 
Mr B took his policy out. Im satisfied that had it have asked three separate questions  at the 
time that Mr B wouldve  understood  each question,  answered  correctly  and they could have 
advised him accordingly.
Finally, I wouldve expected 1 Answer to go through  all aspects of Mr Bs cover  within  the 
final inception call. Unfortunately it hasnt been able to provide a copy  of this call as it had a 
problem with its phone systems that day. So I cant be sure what was discussed. But I think  
its only fair, given what Ive outlined above, that Mr B should be given the benefit of any 
doubt about this.
So, the fair and reasonable  thing  to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is for 1 
Answer to put Mr B back into the position  he would have been, but for its error, and pay the 
equivalent of his claim. I also agree  that Mr B should be paid £250 compensation for the 
clear stress and inconvenience  hes had to face. 1 Answer should also ask the insurer to 
remove any entries in relation to the cancellation from any internal or external databases and 
provide a letter explaining  that it cancelled his policy in error.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require 1 Answer 
Insurance Services Ltd to pay the equivalent claim as if Mr B was insured at the time of the 
traumatic theft plus £250 compensation. And ask the insurer to remove  any entries  in 
relation to the cancellation from any internal or external databases and provide a letter of 
explanation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4520625