K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Santander  UK Plc (then  trading  as Abbey National) mis-sold 
them payment protection insurance  (PPI).
background
Theres only limited information  now about  the mortgage on Mr and Mrs Ts home and none  
of the paperwork  from when Santander sold Mr T the PPI is available. Santander couldnt 
confirm how the policy was sold. But it told us that the first PPI premium noted on the policy  
was paid in February  1994 and that Mr T was the only policy holder, although the mortgage  
was a joint one. 
Mr and Mrs T recall  moving house  around  this time and think  they took out the PPI during a 
meeting at a Santander branch. So, taking into account this information, I think  thats 
probably what happened. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint on the basis that Mr T wouldnt have been covered for 
accident and sickness claims  if they resulted from certain existing medical conditions. At the 
time, Mr T had health problems following an injury. So if he needed  to claim for this 
condition, the policy wouldnt  have met his needs.  Our adjudicator  said Santander shouldnt  
have recommended the policy without  pointing this out to Mr and Mrs T  and he didnt think 
Mr and Mrs T wouldve taken out the policy if it had done so.
Santander disagreed with our adjudicators view. So the complaint came  to me to decide and 
I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr and Mrs T complained to us that Santander  had sold them the PPI whilst discussing a 
mortgage and that they werent  given  much explanation about it  except that Santander 
would arrange  everything and this was how mortgages were now done. Mr T says that 
Santander didnt  ask about  his circumstances and they only took out the PPI due to the 
advisors convincing  manner  but they never felt it was something  they wanted  or needed. 
Santander has said the policy provided  cover  for up to 36 months in the event of accident  
and sickness and for up to 12 months  in the event of unemployment. But I dont think  
Santander did enough to point out to Mr and Mrs T a significant feature of the policy  
specifically, the impact of a condition that affected Mr Ts health. And I dont think it was 
suitable for them or that Santander  should have recommended it - at least  not unless theyd 
been properly  advised about  that issue.  
Mr T told us he had an accident at work in 1986.  After around six months off, he was well 
enough to return  to work  but only to undertake  restricted duties. After  some years doing 
this, he was declared unfit to continue in his job as a result of his condition and he was 
retired from his job on medical  grounds. 
He received a full pension  plus an injury allowance, paid by his former employer. 
Ref: DRN47300072Mr T told us that he hadnt felt ready  to retire from work altogether  and by 1994 he had been  
in a new (different) job for around a year or so. But hes told us he was still taking medication 
for his condition, and having ongoing treatment.
Under the likely  policy  wording,  the policy didnt pay out for a disability which the policy 
holder had taken  medical advice about  during  the 2 year period before starting the cover.  
So I think its likely that Mr T mightve found  it hard to claim successfully for absence  from 
work due to his ongoing condition given that he was invalided out of his former  job on 
medical grounds just the year before taking out the PPI after failing a medical examination,  
and he was continuing to get treatment for it. 
I think if Mr T had been aware that he probably  wouldnt have been able to claim for any 
absence related to his ongoing condition he wouldnt have thought PPI provided him with 
good value. I say this because  sickness cover  was a significant part of the benefit Mr T 
bought. 
So I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs T wouldve taken  out the policy if Santander  hadnt  
recommended it, or if Santander had advised  them  that it might not be suitable for them.
Ive taken into account that Mr T wouldve been  able to claim for other benefits under the 
policy, including time off work for an unrelated condition. But I think  Mr and Mrs T lost out as 
a result of Santanders failings  in this case, because I dont think  theyd have taken out the 
policy if theyd been properly informed. 
Santander says that any pre-existing medical condition  would  have been  discussed before 
the policy was recommended  to Mr T. And it says that hes provided  contradictory 
information about his condition as it wasnt mentioned to us when  he initially  complained. 
Santander also feels that the evidence  our adjudicator relied  on post-dates the sale so it isnt 
something we should  attach  significant weight to.
Ive thought carefully about these points.  But what Santander says in response  to the 
adjudicators view doesnt change my overall decision. It looks like Mr T was experiencing 
problems as a result of his injury in the 2 year period immediately before the policy  started in 
February 1994. The impact of his injury was sufficiently serious to make  him unfit for his 
duties in his previous job which hed had to leave in 1993. Mr T told us he has been 
managing his ongoing health problems since his accident with regular treatment and 
medication. So, looking at the way the policy is worded, I think  its likely that he wouldve had 
difficulty being able to claim for any absence from his new job that was related to his 
condition. 
Santander advised Mr and Mrs T to take out PPI so it had to check  that it was right for them.  
This means  that Id expect Santander  to have asked appropriate questions to check if Mr T 
was likely to be affected by any policy limitation. 
And if it had asked for the sort of information I think it reasonably  ought  to have done, I think 
it wouldve  been apparent that there  was a risk the health problems hed been having could 
impact on Mr T being able to claim on the policy in all the circumstances he mightve 
expected. 
Ref: DRN47300073Ive seen nothing  to show me:
- what, if any, questions  Santander asked about  Mr Ts health
- or that it found out about his condition and took it into account when recommending  
the PPI or when  advising Mr and Mrs T about  its suitability
- or to show that the relevant policy exclusion was drawn clearly to their attention.
For these reasons, I think its fair and reasonable for me to uphold  this complaint on the 
grounds of Mr Ts pre-existing medical condition.
I also think that theres a further reason to uphold this complaint. 
One of Mr and Mrs Ts main complaints is that Santanders advisor didnt properly  consider  
their overall financial situation.  
Santander told us that due to the passage of time it was unable to locate the mortgage/policy 
sales documentation and so it couldnt  determine  what it had asked or been told about 
Mr Ts circumstances  at the time of sale and why it concluded  the policy was appropriate for 
him, or what advice or information it gave him about  it. Santander  relied on Mr Ts testimony 
provided at various  stages of this complaint to make  a decision to reject  this complaint. 
So Ive seen  nothing  to show how (or if) Santander explained the policys  cost and benefits 
to Mr and Mrs T.
But I dont think its likely  that the policys true cost and benefits were explained clearly  
enough to allow Mr and Mrs T to work out whether PPI offered them any useful benefit  that it 
wouldve been worthwhile  for them to buy. I say this because, from what  theyve told us 
about their financial  situation, if Santander  had given them clear enough information about  
the benefits the policy offered, in return for what Mr and Mrs T had to pay to have it, then 
I dont think its likely  they wouldve felt it was worthwhile paying for the policy. 
Looking at their circumstances, Mr and Mrs T were both working and they were  also able to 
depend on Mr Ts full pension and injury on duty payments. They also told us they had a five 
figure amount in savings  which wouldnt be surprising, looking at their joint circumstances 
and taking into account that Mr T had two regular sources of substantial income. 
Mr and Mrs T said they were financially secure  and they couldve paid the mortgage from 
Mr Ts pension, even  if he wasnt  working.  
This seems plausible to me, looking at the information thats available. Ive no reason to 
doubt Mr T when he says he was only working  in the new  job because he didnt want  to 
retire fully when  so young - not because  they needed the money. 
And I think that as Mr Ts pension was additional  money that was effectively a 
supplementary income, over and above what was required for the purposes of paying  the 
mortgage, they wouldve been  able to cover the mortgage monthly repayments comfortably 
without needing  PPI. 
Looked at overall, it seems to me that Mr and Mrs T wouldve felt they didnt need the policy 
enough to make its benefits  worth the cost for them. 
Ref: DRN47300074Ive taken into account that the policy protected secured borrowing on Mr and Mrs Ts home 
 so the consequences of not being able to meet their mortgage  monthly  repayments  
couldve been serious. 
But given the substantial pension Mr T was receiving when he took out the policy, on top of 
the benefits his new job provided  and their savings, I dont think  the policy  Santander 
recommended was suitable.  And Santander  cant show me how (or if) this was clearly 
explained to Mr and Mrs T.
I dont think Mr and Mrs T wouldve felt they had much use for the policy,  given the limited  
benefits it offered  in their particular circumstances, if Santander had given them enough 
clear information so they could decide if the policy was value  for money  for them. 
And I think its unlikely they wouldve bought the policy to cover Mr T if Santander had given  
them clear  enough  information about it.
Based on the information Id seen, my provisional decision was to uphold this complaint.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Santander disagrees with what Ive said in my provisional decision but says it has no further 
information to send me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that affect my view, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained  in my provisional  decision.  
Ref: DRN47300075putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs T in the position they wouldve been in had they not taken 
out the policy. 
Im told the policy has already been  cancelled. So, Santander should: 
Pay Mr and Mrs T the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what  he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs T a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Santander UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs T as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 June 2019. 
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4730007