K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited says hes liable to pay over £14,000 after he 
ended a finance agreement and returned  the car supplied under it.  
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 5 August  2019. A copy of my provisional decision is attached and this forms 
part of my final decision. In my provisional decision I explained what  Id decided about this 
complaint and what I intended  to do  subject to any further submissions from the parties.  
Mr B feels  Moneybarn  deprived him of his right to withdraw from this finance early on and he 
has asked me to look at that again. Moneybarn  says I have  misinterpreted  its processes and 
relevant legislation - and the outcome that I have proposed is not available  to other  
consumers - so its not appropriate for any changes  to be made  to Mr B's remaining balance. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available  evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I want to assure Mr B that I have thought about everything that hes told us very carefully. I 
can see he has strong feelings about  what happened. Mr B says (in summary) that he 
contacted Moneybarn within the relevant period to say he wanted to withdraw from this 
finance agreement  - so he should  have been allowed to do so at that point.
He feels the question of how he would pay for the car without the finance was between  him 
and the dealer. And he thinks it was wrong  of Moneybarn to suggest he should  contact the 
dealer and/or the broker before it actioned his request  - as they put pressure on him not to 
withdraw. 
I accept Mr B contacted  Moneybarn in time to withdraw from the finance. On balance, I am 
satisfied however that Moneybarn did not refuse to comply with his request. Instead, as far 
as I can see, Moneybarn told Mr B that hed still be liable to take delivery of the car if he 
withdrew so he should  get in touch with the dealer first - to ensure that withdrawal was the 
best course of action.  
I dont think it was unreasonable  of Moneybarn to give Mr B an opportunity to discuss  things 
with the dealer in this situation. If Moneybarn hadnt done that, and Mr B then found  himself 
liable to pay for the car without the ability to do so, I think  Mr B would  probably  have wanted 
to know why Moneybarn  hadnt warned him about  this possibility. 
I understand Mr B is unhappy with the actions of the broker and the dealer when he got in 
touch with them after he contacted Moneybarn - he says they discouraged him from 
withdrawing from the finance. But, Im afraid  the circumstances in which this service  can look 
into the actions  of a third party (such as a dealer or credit broker)  in a complaint  about a 
lender like Moneybarn  are generally limited to what took place before the finance was taken  
out. 
Ref: DRN44202062I appreciate Mr B feels the broker, in particular, was acting on behalf of Moneybarn when 
they discussed withdrawal, but I have seen nothing to show that was the case. Im unable to 
look into Mr Bs concerns about the actions of the dealer and the credit broker in this 
complaint against  Moneybarn.  And I dont think I can fairly  criticise Moneybarn  for assuming 
that Mr B had decided  to carry on with the agreement - having heard nothing  further from 
him about withdrawal.  So, I am not persuaded  that Moneybarn prevented  Mr B from 
exercising his right to withdraw  from this finance.  
Moneybarn is also unhappy  with my provisional findings. Moneybarn  says (in summary):
voluntary termination (VT) was the cheapest option available to Mr B at the relevant 
time;
voluntary surrender  (VS) is available after a finance agreement has been defaulted 
and terminated  so the handback option offered to Mr B was the pre-termination  
alternative (as sale proceeds are applied without additional charges in the same way 
as VS);
if it had used the VS process instead of VT then the sale proceeds  of £10,700 would 
have been deducted  from the outstanding  balance on the account  at the time - which  
was in the region of £31,000;  and
 it could not have used the early settlement balance of £16,872, calculated under  the 
Consumer Credit  Act 1974  - as this would have required Mr B to settle in full within  
28 days. 
I accept early settlement  legislation  requires notice and payment within a set time. Likewise, 
I appreciate Moneybarn may only offer VS after an agreement has defaulted  - in the usual 
course of events. And I dont suggest that Moneybarn is obliged to offer an early settlement 
rebate and/or VS to every  customer who wants to end an agreement. 
But, lenders  like Moneybarn are required to respond positively and sympathetically when a 
borrower like Mr B finds himself in financial difficulties. Ive considered Moneybarns 
response when  Mr B said he was unable to meet his monthly repayments in early  2018. 
And, for the reasons I have set out in my provisional decision, I remain of the view that it 
would have been positive and sympathetic for Moneybarn  to offer to end Mr Bs agreement  
by both deducting the sale proceeds  and applying an early  settlement rebate to reduce the 
outstanding balance - in light of these particular circumstances.  
Having considered everything  again, I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my 
provisional conclusions.  I realise this decision  will likely come as a disappointment to Mr B 
and Im sorry about that. Mr B is not however  obliged to accept my decision, in which case it 
remains open to him to pursue this matter by alternative means should he wish to do so. 
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint and I require Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  to 
1.allow Mr B to end the finance agreement by way of voluntary surrender as of 
22 March 2018 and amend his credit file accordingly;
2.reduce the amount owed by applying the proceeds of sale plus an interest rebate 
calculated in accordance with early  settlement regulations; and  
3.advise Mr B of the outstanding balance and arrange  a suitable repayment plan if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN44202063Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN44202064copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr B complains that Moneybarn  No.1 Limited says hes liable to pay over £14,000 after he ended a 
finance agreement and returned the car supplied  under  it.  
background
Mr B got this car with conditional sale agreement (CSA) from Moneybarn in October  2017.  He 
changed his mind  not long after as he felt the finance  cost too much.  He contacted  Moneybarn to 
cancel the agreement but says he wasnt allowed to do so. He told Moneybarn he was having 
financial issues in January  2018.  
Moneybarn agreed to take the car back under  a process known as voluntary termination (VT).  It told 
Mr B hed still have to pay half the total amount due under the CSA by using this process, which was 
over £14,000.  Moneybarn  offered to set up a repayment plan if Mr B couldnt afford  to pay this in one 
lump sum. 
Mr B thinks this is unfair. He feels he was pressured into signing the finance agreement - and says he 
would never  have done  so if hed realised  the credit cost more than the car itself. He thinks the 
finance was unaffordable  at the outset. Moneybarn  has taken the car back  now and he considers its 
wrong to ask him to pay more  for the vehicle.    
 
Moneybarn says Mr B phoned on 14 October 2017 to say he was moving for work and wanted to 
cancel the CSA. Moneybarn explained there was no option  to cancel but Mr B had the right to 
withdraw from the agreement. It told Mr B withdrawing from the finance wouldnt cancel the 
agreement to supply the car. So, he would need to speak to the dealer to see if it would cancel the 
sale - or find an alternative way to pay for the car. Mr B subsequently took delivery of the car and 
Moneybarn assumed  he decided to keep it. 
When Mr B said he was having financial  problems  Moneybarn ran through various  options for ending 
the CSA. It gave Mr B some  idea of what  each  option  would cost and Mr B decided to VT the 
agreement. The car was returned  and Moneybarn told Mr B he was liable to pay half the total amount 
due under the CSA - which worked out at just over £14,000.
Our investigator thinks the complaint should be upheld  in part. He accepts  Mr B said he wanted to 
cancel the CSA but hes satisfied he wasnt prevented from withdrawing from the finance.  He thinks it 
was reasonable of Moneybarn to discuss termination options with Mr B. But, he notes  the car was 
sold for over £10,000 and considers it would  have been fair for Moneybarn  to apply  that money  to 
reduce the VT amount. 
To put things right, he says Moneybarn  should reduce  the VT balance by £10,700 and, if Mr B is 
unable to pay the new balance outstanding, agree a suitable payment  plan. 
Moneybarn says (in summary)
Mr B exercised  his right under legislation to VT his agreement;
it processed this request properly and the sale proceeds are not taken into account;
the amount  Mr B is liable to pay under the VT process is set down by statute not decided by 
Moneybarn; and 
he remains liable to pay over £14,000. 
Moneybarn asked for an ombudsman  to review the matter.
my provisional  findings
Ref: DRN44202065Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive  or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what  I consider is most likely  to have happened  in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.  
Mr B told Moneybarn  he was unable  to keep up with the payments due under  this finance not long 
after he took it out. I understand he would  have liked Moneybarn to simply  take the car back and 
cancel the agreement at that stage  but Im afraid Moneybarn wasnt  obliged to do so. 
Ive considered the CSA Mr B signed. I think the total amount of credit,  the number and amount  of 
monthly repayments and the interest rate are all displayed fairly prominently.  I consider the terms - 
including Mr Bs obligations   are reasonably  clear and Im satisfied similar information was also set 
out in the explanation document provided  to Mr B before  he agreed to the finance.  I have seen 
nothing to show  that Mr B was put under undue pressure  to take out the finance.
withdrawal
I dont think theres any dispute that Mr B had the right to withdraw from the CSA within  14 days. If he 
had done so, he would  however have needed to repay the money he borrowed  from Moneybarn - and 
he would have remained liable to take delivery of the car. This means he would  have had to pay for 
the car in some other way. On the information I have at the moment, I cant  see that Mr B was in a 
position to do so.  
I accept Mr B emailed the dealer  ten days after he signed the finance agreement  (on 14 October  
2017) to say I am going to cancel my loan agreement.  I will wait a few months before I apply again. 
My deposit  can go towards my payments  for [another car].  I havent seen the dealers response but 
it looks as if Mr B decided to continue with the existing  finance arrangement. Ive seen nothing  to 
show that that Moneybarn prevented Mr B from withdrawing from the CSA and Im not minded  to 
uphold this complaint on those grounds. 
affordability
Moneybarn was obliged  to carry out reasonable and proportionate  checks to ensure  that Mr B was 
likely to be able to repay  what he borrowed here in a sustainable way. What  is proportionate will 
depend on the circumstances.  In this case the car cost nearly £16,000 and the cost of credit was over 
£17,000. Mr B agreed to repay over £33,000 at £545 a month over five years.
Moneybarn says it asked Mr B for payslips or bank statements to verify his income and it obtained  
information from a credit reference agency (CRA). Moneybarn told us it wont normally approve an 
application if the proposed repayment is more  than 25% of the borrowers net income.  Based on the 
information it had Moneybarn  was satisfied that Mr B met this criteria  and the finance was affordable. 
Moneybarn has provided copies of the four weekly payslips it saw at the relevant time.  Im satisfied 
these show that Mr B received basic pay of about £350 a week. Moneybarn also sent us a copy of a 
bank statement Mr B provided. This shows he received tax credits of around £800 a month - and it 
looks as if he had some other sources of income  as well. 
Moneybarn hasnt been able to provide the information it received from the CRA but Mr B has sent us 
a copy of his credit file. At the time Mr B applied for this CSA, I can see he had four defaults.  The 
most recent  of these was in July 2016. Mr B also has two county  court judgments (CCJs) from 
October 2014 and December  2016. I think its more  likely than not Moneybarn would have seen this in 
the information it obtained  from CRAs  at the time. 
I accept this adverse information suggests Mr B had some financial  issues before  he applied for the 
CSA. But, Im satisfied  he repaid other debts  during  this time. And I cant see that Mr B was over 
extended - in terms of other credit  commitments  - when he borrowed this money  from Moneybarn.  
Ref: DRN44202066On the information I have, its difficult to say that Moneybarn should  reasonably  have carried  out more  
checks here. And, even if I were persuaded that Moneybarn should have done  so, I would have to be 
satisfied that its likely  the finance was actually  unaffordable for Mr B - in order to uphold this 
complaint. 
I have seen copies of Mr Bs bank statements  for the period three months before and three months 
after he took out this CSA.  And I think it looks as if he probably had enough disposable  income to 
afford this finance. I realise the bank statements may not tell the whole story. And I can see Mr B only 
had the CSA for a few months before he told Moneybarn  he was struggling to meet the repayments - 
which might  suggest there was an affordability issue from the outset. 
Our investigator asked  Mr B to supply more information about his income and outgoings  but he wasnt 
able to provide that. And Moneybarn  says Mr B indicated  his financial situation had changed - when  
he first reported having difficulties in January 2018.  On balance overall, based on the information I 
have, I cant safely conclude that this CSA was unaffordable for Mr B when he took it out. So I cant  
fairly find it was wrong of Moneybarn  to provide  the finance in the first place.
termination options
When a borrower  like Mr B tells a lender that hes having financial problems  we expect  the lender to 
provide a positive and sympathetic response.  Unfortunately,  there are only a few options  available 
when a borrower  is unable to maintain repayments under  this sort of finance. I can see that 
Moneybarn sent Mr B information about his options for ending the agreement as follows:-   
Voluntary Termination
the vehicle must be returned  and there may be a residual amount to clear  the agreement which  will 
vary depending on whether  you've paid half the agreement value or not (plus any arrears and 
charges). We'll agree an affordable payment plan to clear any outstanding balance. £14,552.46
Handback 
You hand back the vehicle to us and we'll sell it. There will be a residual amount to clear  the 
agreement, which will be discounted by the sale value  of the vehicle. We'll agree an affordable 
payment plan to clear  any outstanding  balance. £20,564.81
Early Settlement
You pay us the full Early  Settlement Figure by a set date and the agreement  ends.  You become the 
legal owner of the vehicle. £16,872.00
Default Termination £21,974.04
Mr B told Moneybarn  he wanted to VT the agreement in March 2018.  
The right to VT this sort of finance is provided under section  99 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA). This says a borrower can end the agreement at any time by giving notice.  Section 100 of the 
CCA sets out the financial consequences  of terminating under section 99 - it says the borrower is 
liable for half of the total amount payable  along with any outstanding  liability  under the finance at the 
point of termination.  This is reflected in the CSA Mr B signed which says 
You have the right to end this agreementMoneybarn  will then be entitled to the return  of the goods 
and to half the amount payable  under  this agreement that is £16,589.46. If you have  already paid at 
least this amount plus any overdue instalments and you have taken reasonable  care of the goods you 
will not have to pay any more. 
Based on the options above that Moneybarn  put to Mr B, VT was the cheapest option - so I can see 
why he agreed  to do that. Our investigator thinks Moneybarn should  also have applied the sale 
Ref: DRN44202067proceeds to reduce the VT amount by about another £10,000. But, Im afraid lenders arent  obliged  to 
do that under the relevant legislation.  And Im unable to reasonably require Moneybarn to do so here. 
There is however  another termination  option  - commonly  referred  to as voluntary  surrender (VS) - 
which I think  it would have been reasonable for Moneybarn  to consider in this situation. 
voluntary surrender
This process  is not set out under the CCA in the same way as VT. But lenders can allow a borrower 
to end a finance agreement in this way. And we generally  consider it fair to do so where a borrower 
finds himself  in trouble financially at the sort of early stage that Mr B did here - in that hed only made 
a few of the monthly  payments due when  he ran into financial difficulties.
Under VS the customer  returns  the vehicle, which  is sold by the lender. The sale proceeds are then 
applied to reduce the outstanding balance  along with any rebate due as the result of early  settlement 
regulations. 
Looking at the figures  in the termination options Moneybarn provided to Mr B, I think  it seems to have 
given him the option to reduce the amount owed  by either the deducting the sale proceeds (the 
handback option)  or an interest rebate (early  settlement).  
As far as I can see (from the figures Moneybarn provided) Mr B would have had to pay £16,872 if hed 
received the interest  rebate  alone in February 2018. So, it looks as if the amount owed would  have 
been reduced  by another £10,000 or so if Moneybarn had applied the sale proceeds towards the debt 
as well - meaning Mr B would be liable  to pay something in the region of £6,000.  
Given the short  time Mr B had this agreement, the fact Moneybarn knew he was having  financial 
issues in January  2018  and the relatively  low amount  hed paid off the finance at that stage, I think  it 
would have been positive  and sympathetic for Moneybarn  to have offered to end this CSA by way of 
VS. If Moneybarn had put this option to Mr B I think he would probably  have agreed to take it - rather  
than end the agreement  by way of VT. 
On the current evidence, I am minded to uphold this complaint. I intend to find Moneybarn  should  
reduce the balance of Mr Bs account by the amount he would have been entitled to by way of early 
settlement (when he asked  to end this agreement in March  2018) plus the proceeds of sale. If, after 
that, Mr B is unable to pay the balance left outstanding then Id expect Moneybarn  to arrange a 
suitable plan to enable  him to repay what he owes in a sustainable way. 
I invite the parties to consider what Ive said and let me have any further submissions by the date 
below. After  that date Ill look at all of the evidence available and make my final decision.  
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions that I receive  from the parties 5 September 2019, my provisional 
decision is I am minded to uphold this complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I intend to 
require Moneybarn No 1 Limited to 
4.allow  Mr B to end the finance agreement  by way of voluntary surrender as of 22 March 2018 
and amend his credit  file accordingly;
5.reduce the amount  owed by the proceeds of sale and any interest rebate due under  early  
settlement regulations;  
6.advise Mr B of the outstanding  balance and arrange a suitable  repayment plan if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN4420206