K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out on a credit card account that started in 1997. 
Lloyds couldnt  confirm how or exactly  when  PPI was sold to Mrs P. But its clear she had it 
on her account so it mustve been added either when Mrs P took out her credit card or 
sometime after. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagrees with our adjudicators  view.  
Mrs P mainly  says she had other means  she couldve relied on to pay her credit  card.  Mrs P 
also says that if it had been made clear the policy was optional,  she wouldve declined  the 
cover.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
The original  paperwork from the sale is no longer  available. And it wouldnt be reasonable to 
rely on Mrs P being able to remember everything as it happened so long ago. So I cant 
know exactly what the bank mightve said to Mrs P when she took out PPI. 
Lloyds has provided  an example  of a credit card application. But I dont know  if Mrs P 
wouldve filled in a form like this when  she took out the PPI  because  it isnt clear exactly 
how or when this happened. So Im not relying  on this. 
I have to look at everything  and decide  what I think is most likely. 
Based on what we know about  the way Lloyds sold PPI around this time, I think its likely  that 
Mrs P wouldve  had to say if she wanted PPI  it wasnt automatically  added on to a credit  
card account. And it looks to me as if Mrs P couldve benefitted  from having  PPI if shed 
needed to claim. So, on balance, I think its more likely that Mrs P decided she wanted to 
have the benefits PPI offered and Lloyds added PPI to her account at her request.  
Lloyds said that in fairness to Mrs P it would treat this as an advised sale.  This means it not 
only had to give her important policy information  in a clear way. It also had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommended  was suitable for Mrs P.
Looking at the likely policy terms, it doesnt  look as if PPI was unsuitable for Mrs P based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Ref: DRN42022972Mrs P told us she could rely on getting 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months half pay. 
PPI wouldve  covered her for accident  or sickness, paying out in full for up to 12 months per 
claim, on top of her sick pay from work.  So I think the policy  couldve provided a useful 
benefit at a difficult time  especially if Mrs P mightve had extra costs as a result of being off 
work as a result of illness  or disability.  And the policy wouldve also paid out in the event  
Mrs P lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work. Mrs P hasnt  mentioned any significant 
other means  she couldve depended  on if she wasnt able to work. So I cant  say that Mrs P 
didnt need PPI in her situation. I think PPI was worthwhile  for her.  
Mrs P was eligible for the cover.  Its likely  that there  were some things the policy  didnt cover. 
But it doesnt look as if this wouldve affected  Mrs P  none of the usual policy  limitations 
applied to her circumstances. So I dont think that having more information  about the policy  
exclusions and limitations wouldve  put Mrs P off taking out PPI.
Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mrs P about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what  the policy  would cost,  or what 
it might  pay out if Mrs P made a claim. But I think Mrs P chose to take out the policy   so it 
looks like she wanted this type of cover. It seems to have been affordable for her. Mrs P 
couldve cancelled the policy  at any time if her circumstances changed or she no longer 
wanted to pay for it.
Taking everything into account,  I havent seen enough to make me think that its likely Mrs P 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance, 
I think shed still have  taken out the policy. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs P about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mrs P, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN42022973my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs P any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4202297