K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Hyundai Capital UK Limited acted unfairly when it wouldnt agree to 
his insurance company  replacing the vehicle he had under a personal  contract  plan 
(PCP) when it was written  off following an accident. As a result, he says, he has suffered 
financial loss.
background 
In January 2018 Mr B acquired  a new car via a PCP with Hyundai.  Unfortunately, around a 
year later the car was badly damaged following a collusion and Mr B made  a claim under 
his insurance policy.  The insurance company decided that the car should be written off in 
February 2019.
Under Mr Bs policy, if the car was 12 months  or under, there  was a term where the insurer 
would replace the car with one of the same  make, model and specification. However, as 
the car was subject  to a finance agreement and remained  the property of the credit  
company one of the conditions for this term was that authority was required from anyone 
with an interest in the car. The insurance  company made contact with Hyundai who agreed 
that a like for like replacement car would be possible. It said it needed to be provided with a 
Nil Balance  invoice for the car and that it would have  to match  certain requirements so as 
to be like for like.
The insurance company  instructed a third-party company to source a car for Mr B. 
Hyundai informed the third-party company via a letter as to what  was required for it to 
approve a replacement car. This included being provided with the registration  number and 
chassis number of the car.
The third-party company  provided Hyundai with the nil balance invoice, but not with the 
details of the cars registration and chassis number. Hyundai said that was insufficient  
information for it to decide whether it could approve  the car. There followed contact 
between the insurance company, the third party and Hyundai. The insurance company said 
it wasnt possible for it to provide the information Hyundai wanted  as those details would 
only be available if the car was actually  purchased. It said it couldnt procced to purchase  a 
vehicle if it didnt know Hyundai  would approve  it.
In March 2019 the insurance company paid the current market  value  of the car and cleared 
the outstanding balance  on the credit agreement. It said this was allowed for under the 
policy if providing a like for like replacement wasnt possible. The market  value of the car 
was sufficient to pay off the outstanding  balance of the PCP and Hyundai therefore closed 
Mr Bs account.
Mr B complained to this service as he said it was unfair he hadnt  been provided with a 
replacement car due to Hyundais unreasonable requirements. He said he had been left 
out of pocket.
During this services investigation Hyundai  said it wasnt  upholding Mr Bs complaint. It said 
it required the proposed replacement cars registration and chassis  number in order to 
ensure it was a like for like placement  and of equal value to the original car. Hyundai said it 
had been clear what was required.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld.  He said the third-
Ref: DRN47225112party company had explained  it couldnt  provide the missing information without ordering 
the car and couldnt take that action without the authority of Hyundai.  He said that on 
balance he thought it was unreasonable for Hyundai to essentially require the car to be 
ordered to meet its internal policy specifications.  And that Hyundais actions had put Mr B 
at a financial disadvantage.
Our investigator  requested that Hyundai contacted Mr B to ascertain what he owed 
under the agreement and put him back in the position he would have been  had the 
replacement car been provided.
Hyundai disagreed  with our investigators  view. It said that under the PCP if the car 
was written off then he would be liable to clear the balance  on the account. It said it 
wasnt obliged to agree  to a replacement car.
Hyundai said the information it has asked for was necessary to value the replacement 
car and ensure it was suitable to be swapped over on the agreement.  It said it could 
cause detriment to the consumer  if the vehicles value differed from the original.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
Id seen that Mr B had car insurance that provided a like for like replacement if his car was 
new and either stolen or written off in the first 12 months that he had it in his possession. 
The purpose of this term was to protect Mr B from the steep fall in the value of new cars in 
their first year. There was a greater risk that if the car was stolen or written off at the start of 
the agreement  that the market value of the car wouldnt then cover the amount outstanding 
under the finance agreement.
If a car is to be replaced, then authority from the finance company must be given as it has 
an interest because it still legally owns the car. Here it was important that the replacement 
car was of the same value as the original one as the car could be handed back to the 
finance company  either via voluntary termination or at the end of the contract and it was the 
credit company who would then recover the proceeds of sale.  Id seen that it was part of the 
term and conditions that Hyundai would need to agree to the replacement. And the term 
said that if no suitable replacement could be found then the insurer would pay the market  
value for the car.
Mr B had hoped  he would be able to receive the replacement car and keep himself 
mobile. He said that he has lost around £5,000 due to Hyundais decision not to approve 
the car being  replaced due to the information  that couldnt be supplied.
I appreciated that Hyundai  has an internal policy regarding whats  required in these 
circumstances and that as this involves business  practices it hasnt supplied it to this 
service. However, I thought on balance it hadnt treated Mr B fairly in declining  to look at 
replacing the car if the registration number and chassis  number werent provided. I thought 
it could have done more to explore what options  were open to it as to how it would value 
the replacement  car. For instance, it could have sought an assurance from the insurer  that 
the replacement  car would match  the model and spec of the original as well as being of the 
same age and mileage.  Hyundai could then have obtained the VIN/Chassis number 
afterwards. I thought it would have been  reasonable for Hyundai to acknowledge that Mr B 
wanted the car replaced rather than its market  value being paid out and that such  a pay-out  
could be to his financial disadvantage.
Ref: DRN47225113Mr B said he had lost around  £5,000 due to the car not being replaced. He had claimed  
the following  amounts:
Loss of his deposit of £2,000
Reimbursement of £2,580 paid as instalments for the 12 months he had 
the car under the agreement
£168 for servicing the car
£600 insurance excess.
Id seen that the market value for the car covered the outstanding credit balance  on the 
agreement and so Mr B wasnt required to pay anything further. However, we would look 
to put the consumer back in the position  they would have been had they not been treated 
unfairly by a business. Here Mr B was left without d car or a credit agreement and had to 
start again. He had lost his deposit  and would need to find this amount again to be able to 
take out a new agreement  for a similar  car at a similar monthly cost. In these 
circumstances I thought it would be fair that Hyundai reimbursed him his deposit,  which  
had come from part exchanging another car to put him back where he had started when 
he took out the agreement.
However, I disagreed  that Mr B should be reimbursed the 12 monthly  instalments  hed paid 
under the agreement. Mr B had full use of the car up until the point of the accident and it 
was fair that he should pay for that. Travel costs  were  an expected part of car ownership 
and to have these reimbursed in these  circumstances would put Mr B in a better position 
than if the car had been replaced.
I also didnt think it was fair he should  be reimbursed  the service  costs. Under the terms 
of the PCP it was Mr Bs responsibility to maintain  the car and keep it in good  condition. 
Mr B was fulfilling his obligation  and so I didnt think it was reasonable to ask Hyundai to 
cover that cost due to the accident  preventing  Mr B from further using the car.
Mr B has raised the cost of his insurance excess fee. This fee would have been applied  by 
the insurer to any settlement  including if the car had been replaced and so I didnt think I 
could reasonably require Hyundai to reimburse  this amount.
But I did think Mr B had suffered unnecessary distress and inconvenience at Hyundais 
intransigence over what it said it required to approve a replacement  car. I thought a 
payment of £300  would  be fair to reflect the impact on Mr B in not having the car replaced.
So, for the reasons set out above I intended  to partially uphold Mr Bs complaint. I was 
asking Hyundai to reimburse Mr B his deposit  of £2,000  and pay him £300 
compensation.
Hyundai has agreed with my provisional view, but Mr B has asked that I look again at the 
costs he incurred when  the car wasnt replaced.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN47225114I havent changed my view. I think its fair for Mr B to receive back his deposit and 
compensation, but I dont think its fair for Hyundai reimburses him other costs.
As explained above, I think  Mr B should pay for the months he was able to use the car so Im 
not asking Hyundai  to repay  him the monthly  payments  he made under the agreement. I am 
also not asking  it to reimburse the servicing  costs as this was Mr Bs responsibility under the 
agreement. And although I appreciate Mr B didnt get the benefit of then using the serviced 
car that wasnt due to anything Hyundai did, it was the result of the car being  involved in an 
accident.
The insurance excess was again not something Hyundai was responsible for. This was part 
of the insurance  policy and would have been applied  whether the car was replaced or if a 
settlement figure had been paid out. It would also have applied if the car had been repaired 
and returned.  So, I think it would be unreasonable to find Hyundai liable for that excess fee.
Mr B says he paid out around £300 on other forms of transport while he was dealing with his 
insurance claim and the car wasnt replaced. I appreciate there would be travel  costs for 
Mr B if he didnt  have a car but he would also have  faced travel costs  with a car so I dont 
think it would  be fair for the full amount to be reimbursed.  Im satisfied that the £300 
compensation acknowledges that there  would have been inconvenience  and distress to Mr B 
due to not having the car replaced and that amount reflects  that there would have been 
some additional  expenditure as well.
So, for the reasons given Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. Im asking Hyundai  to 
reimburse Mr Bs deposit together with £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
my final decision 
For the reasons  set out above Im asking Hyundai Capital UK Limited to do the following:
Reimburse Mr Bs deposit of £2000 together  with interest  at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of payment  until the date of payment.
£300 compensation caused by the distress and inconvenience of not having  the car 
replaced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4722511