K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited didnt warn him that the excess  
payment under his mobile phone insurance was higher  than the value of the replacement 
phone it supplied to him.
background
Mr F has mobile  phone  insurance  as a benefit  under a packaged bank  account.  Assurant is 
the insurer. 
One of Mr Fs colleagues had made  a claim under a bank  account linked policy.  This 
reminded Mr F of his own insurance, and so he made a claim to Assurant for his broken 
phone. Assurant accepted  the claim and asked Mr F to pay the £100 excess. Assurant 
replaced the broken phone with a refurbished one of the same make and model.
Not long after the claim Mr F looked up the refurbished cost of his phone. He said it was 
worth just £25. He complained Assurant hadnt  warned him it might not be worth claiming 
under the policy,  even  though it must have known the value  of the phone.  He wanted to 
return the replacement  phone and have his old one back, and for Assurant to refund him the 
£100 excess. 
Assurant said it was Mr F to decide whether it was worth claiming  under his own insurance  
policy, so it wouldnt refund the excess.  It couldnt  return his broken phone,  which had been 
disposed of in line with the policys terms and conditions.  Mr F came to us. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the policy terms said the excess had 
to be paid before the claim is settled, and that the consumer should consider this excess  
when deciding if the policy was suitable for them. She said Assurant didnt have to tell Mr F 
the value of his phone when he made  the claim,  or give him other  options  rather than make 
a claim.  She said Assurant had sent information  which indicated  the average cost to replace 
his phone with a refurbished one was around  £110.  She said Assurant didnt have to refund 
the excess or return the damaged phone.
Mr F didnt  agree with the investigator. He thought shed not considered  his point  about  
information asymmetry, which the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sees 
as a risk to customer conduct.  He was concerned shed concluded that the customer should 
do their own research (instead of the insurer) as long as there was a warning in the policy  
terms that the risk is transferred to the customer  even though the insurer has more 
information at their disposal. He wasnt concerned about having his old phone  back,  but he 
did want his £100  excess in exchange  for the unused replacement phone it had supplied  him 
with. He said Assurants  behaviour was unethical. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr F is aware,  the FCA is the regulator. I decide  individual complaints on their own facts  
and merits. 
Ive carefully thought  about Mr Fs concerns, but I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN42458832I think Assurant gave  Mr F enough  information to decide whether to claim under the policy. 
He had to pay the policy  excess before it would accept the claim,  in common  with most 
mobile phone insurance  policies.  Assurant  was able to supply a refurbished phone  under the 
policy terms, which again is something  most mobile  phone insurers  provide.
At the point he was asked to pay the £100  excess Mr F had the chance to consider whether 
it was worth claiming under the policy  or not. He also had the opportunity to look up the 
value of the phone before arranging to send  his phone to Assurant in exchange  for a 
replacement refurbished phone. I dont think this information was difficult to find online.  I can 
see Mr F might consider  this information was more readily available to Assurant. But I dont 
think there was an imbalance  in the information  available to Mr F as opposed to the 
information available to Assurant.
Theres some dispute about  the value of the refurbished  phone Assurant supplied to Mr F. 
Assurant has given  us evidence to show the cost of supplying a good quality refurbished  
phone of Mr Fs make and model was likely to have been more  than the excess, if only by a 
small margin. Also it points out that selling a phone of that model to a phone  recycling 
company would probably give a much lower value.  
But either way I dont think Assurant was required under  the policy terms to give Mr F advice 
about whether  or not he should claim and pay the excess. There also wasnt  any general 
duty on Assurant  to do that at the point  of claim.
So I understand Mr F considers there is information asymmetry and that Assurants 
behaviour was unethical. But although  Ive considered his points I dont think Assurant did 
anything wrong  in the circumstances of Mr Fs claim. So I dont uphold the complaint and 
I dont require it to refund the policy excess to him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4245883