K822xcomplaint
Ms A complains  that Scottish  Widows Limited failed to change  the details  on her life policy,  
meaning she received  letters that used her ex-husbands name. This issue  continued for a 
number of years, causing her upset and frustration.  
background 
Following Ms As divorce in 2009 a life policy previously held in joint names with her then 
husband was assigned to her as part of the divorce proceedings. While both her and her ex-
husband remained as lives assured on the policy, she became the sole owner. 
Scottish Widows  was informed of the change and confirmed it in 2010. But later in 2014  
Ms A received a letter that, although  correctly addressed,  used her ex-husbands name  in 
the salutation.  Ms A highlighted this to Scottish  Widows, which  confirmed the necessary 
changes had been made to avoid the error happening again.
Despite this, Ms A received a similar letter in 2018,  again with the salutation in her ex-
husbands name. On this occasion she contacted Scottish Widows to formally complain. 
Scottish Widows  accepted that it made  a further error and offered her compensation of £75, 
plus £9 for the cost of phone calls shed needed to make in order to put the matter  right.  
Ms A didnt accept this and referred  the complaint to this service.  
Our investigator didnt  feel that Scottish Widows  offer sufficiently reflected the upset the 
repeated error wouldve  caused. She suggested  that the offer be increased to a total of 
£250, which Scottish Widows agreed to. But Ms A felt the compensation should be higher  
more in line with the amount shed originally  suggested; £100 for each year that the name 
details had been incorrectly recorded. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Theres no dispute that Scottish  Widows  made an error, or errors,  and it has accepted 
responsibility for doing so. So I have only to decide  what represents fair compensation in the 
circumstances.
This was clearly an example of very poor administration  on the part of Scottish Widows. It 
must have  incorrectly recorded the salutation at the outset in 2010  and then failed to put the 
error right when it was brought to its attention in 2014, despite confirming that it had done so. 
And it wouldve been aware  that the changes to the policy were  of a sensitive nature, a result 
of Ms As divorce proceedings. 
But set against  this is the fact, while the incorrect information remained on record  for eight 
years, it seems Ms A only received letters with the wrong salutation on twice, in 2014 and 
2018. I note that she said they were in fact more frequent than this, but theres no record  of 
that. And even if further examples were sent between  2014 and 2018 its clear they didnt 
Ref: DRN48336782prompt Ms A to act. And Im also conscious  that her ex-husbands name  will have remained 
associated with the policy in any event, as the joint life assured. 
So I dont  really think a figure of compensation around the £900 mark that Ms A has 
suggested can really  be warranted. But I agree that Scottish Widows  original  £75 was far 
below a reasonable amount for a repeated error of a sensitive nature. In all the 
circumstances Im satisfied that the investigators  figure of £250  in total represents a 
reasonable compromise. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct 
Scottish Widows  Limited to pay Ms A 250 for the trouble and upset caused to her by its 
error.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4833678