K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that HSBC  UK Bank Plc didnt tell him he didnt have  to take advice  
when transferring his investments to it.
 
background
Mr M banked with a business Ill call L. In 2018 Mr M approached  HSBC as he was looking 
to change his banking arrangements and move his investments to it. Mr M said he made  it 
clear that he wanted  to replicate the arrangements he had with L with HSBC.  Mr M says he 
was told the only way to move  his investments to HSBC was to undergo a review of his 
financial circumstances for which he would pay an advice fee.
As a result of the review,  HSBC made  recommendations  which Mr M accepted. HSBC 
recommended he open  an ISA and an Open Ended Investment Company (OEIC) account in 
which he invested the sums held with L. The advice cost Mr M £5,000.
Mr M experienced some service issues whilst  the accounts were being opened so he 
complained. During  the course of making his complaint Mr M says he became aware  that he 
couldve opened the ISA and OEIC account himself, without  undergoing  the financial review  
and being charged the £5,000  advice  fee.
Mr M made a further complaint, saying  he made  it clear to the adviser that he didnt need 
any advice as hed recently taken advice  through L. Mr M felt the adviser should've told him 
he could do this himself  for free and if he had, he would have done so. Mr M added the 
advice had cost him even  more because of the poor performance of the investments.
HSBC agreed Mr M had experienced delays, for which it paid him £100. But it didnt agree 
the adviser had misled  him. HSBC  said the sales process made  it clear  the advice wasnt  
compulsory and he was made aware of the costs before he agreed to proceed with the 
recommendations.
Mr M remained unhappy and referred his complaint  to our service. He said HSBC  failed to 
let him know  he could transfer the investments he held with L to HSBC on an execution-only 
basis. Mr M said he only agreed  to take HSBC's advised service as he was led to believe 
this was the only way he would be able to open an ISA and OEIC account.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Overall, he thought the paperwork showed 
Mr M had wanted to use the advised  service and he was aware  this would cost him £5,000. 
He also said the investments  Mr M was recommended werent  like for like.
Mr M didnt  accept the investigators findings.  He disputed that he wanted  to review his 
investments  he said he didnt object to this wording in the paperwork  as he understood this 
was the only way to set up the investment accounts.  He reiterated that his circumstances 
hadnt changed, so he wasnt in need of any advice. Mr M added  that hed scrutinised 
HSBC's paperwork  but it didn't provide customers with any other options apart from the fee-
based advised service.  He said this was misrepresentation by omission. Mr M also disputed 
what HSBC had said about the investments being  like for like. He said he had an ISA and 
OEIC account with L and this is exactly what hed taken with HSBC.
Mr M said he would provide sworn testimony  from his wife who could attest  to what  he told 
the adviser. He added that hed raised  this matter with the Financial Conduct  Authority,  who 
Ref: DRN47625702he said believed HSBC  had breached  at least three  of its 11 Principles of Business (1, 6 and 
7). Mr M also told us that UK Trading Standards supported his complaint.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  was passed to me to make  a final 
decision.
I reviewed Mr Ms complaint and contacted him regarding  the point he made  about  ending 
up with like for like investments. I explained that although hed taken an ISA and OEIC 
account, the HSBC  adviser had recommended he invest in funds that had a different risk 
profile to the funds  he was previously invested  in. So, I didnt consider  hed been  
recommended like for like investments. I asked Mr M for his comments  about this. I also 
asked him whether hed approached any other  financial  service  providers at the time he 
moved his banking arrangements and investments to HSBC.
Mr M said he hadnt approached any other providers, he just wanted to replicate  his existing 
arrangements with HSBC.  Mr M said he hadnt been  made aware that the recommendations 
involved changing the risk profile of his investments. However, he made it clear that he 
wasnt complaining  about the quality of the advice (even though  hed lost money  as a result), 
nor the other service issues he experienced.
Mr M has since made a complaint about the advice, which is being considered separately by 
our service.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr M so Id like to explain how Ive reached  my 
decision.
Its first important  to note that in cases such as this where  it is one partys  word against 
anothers I have to make a decision based  on what I think  most likely happened. Mr M says 
he made it clear in his meetings with the adviser that he didnt require any advice and that he 
was simply seeking to replicate his existing arrangements. I have to weigh up his testimony 
with the documentary evidence provided to determine what I think  is most likely in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I should also say I dont think its necessary for Mr M to provide a sworn testimony from his 
wife in support  of his position as we are an informal service. But Ive taken into account that 
Mr M says his wife was also present at one of the meetings and can attest to what  he says 
happened.
As I understand it, Mr M met with HSBC four times regarding  his investments. The first 
meeting took place  in April 2018  in branch following the transfer  of his bank account from L. 
HSBC says that at this point it recognised Mr M was eligible  for HSBCs premier banking  
service. So, it asked  him whether he was interested in discussing his investments with an 
adviser. It says the first formal meeting took place  in May 2018, where it says Mr M wouldve 
been shown a video explaining  the advice service  and he was given disclosure documents 
and an Advice  Agreement. A follow up meeting took place  in June 2018 at Mr Ms home and 
a final meeting took place in August 2018  in branch  when all of the paperwork was signed.
Ref: DRN47625703Ive seen the paperwork completed  by the adviser during these meetings. Ive also seen the 
video HSBC says Mr M wouldve been  shown before  he agreed to pay any fees.
Mr M says he remembers being shown a number of videos  at the time. He hasnt specifically 
said he remembers seeing the video HSBC gave  us the link to, but he was asked by the 
investigator to review the video and provide his comments. Mr M said the video fails to 
address the fundamental  issue  hes complained about. It doesnt explain that customers can 
open investment  accounts themselves without using the advice service.
Having reviewed the video myself, I agree with Mr M that it doesnt explain that customers 
can open investment  accounts without using the advice  service. But I think  it makes the 
advice service process and the fees payable  clear. It explains that there  isnt any charge for 
the initial meeting  and that the advice fee is only payable if recommendations are made  and 
the customer chooses to implement  them. The video explains customers can withdraw from 
the advice service at any time. If the Financial Planning Report (FPR) hasnt  yet been 
written, no fee is payable.  But if the FPR has been  written, only the report  fee is payable.
This information is replicated  in the financial advice disclosure  document that Mr M was 
given on 22 May 2018. This said:
We will arrange for an Adviser  to conduct an initial discussion with you that will be free of 
charge. We will discuss  your goals and objectives with you, explain our services,  the cost of 
those services and talk you through the payment options  before we ask you to sign the 
Advice Agreement to confirm that you are happy  to proceed with our fee paying service.
I asked HSBC whether  it could provide  a copy of the Advice Agreement. Unfortunately  
HSBC wasnt able to provide  one, but I can see Mr M signed  a declaration confirming  it had 
been issued to him on 22 May 2018. So I have no reason to doubt that he signed it.
The adviser completed a fact find, which documented Mr Ms personal circumstances and 
his objectives.  There is a section titled Investments which set out Mr Ms responses to a 
number of questions. Within this section, the following comments were recorded:
You have  current investments with [L] which you set up in 2015 and took advice from an [L] 
advisor at the time. This investment  was made  for capital growth. You have had no other 
investment experience. You have felt generally positive about your investments as you have 
made money. You have manually moved  funds into ISA funds each year.
You wish to maintain  your current investment levels  and have no desire to add more funds 
at this time nor do you wish to reduce your investment levels.  You wish to simply move your 
existing investments away from [L].
I think this shows that Mr M did express a desire to replicate the investments he held with L 
in new accounts  with HSBC. It also mentions Mr M had taken advice from L in 2015  when  
the investments  had been set up. But I dont think it supports Mr Ms assertions  that he told 
the adviser he didnt  want  to receive  any advice at all. I know Mr M says that he made this 
clear to him. But I think it was made clear to Mr M throughout the process that he didnt have 
to proceed with the advised service or the recommendations made if he didnt want  to. The 
video highlighted  this, as did the disclosure  document, which Mr M confirmed he received  in 
May 2018. This was also highlighted in the FPR, which explained only the report fee would 
be payable if Mr M didnt  wish to proceed with the advice. If Mr M hadnt  wanted to proceed  
with the advised service,  either because he didnt  feel he needed it or because  he didnt 
Ref: DRN47625704want to pay the fee, Im satisfied he was made aware he didnt have to proceed with it. As he 
proceeded, on balance, I think  this is because  he wanted to rather  than because he wasnt  
given any other option.
I know Mr M says he was led to believe this was the only way he could open an ISA or OEIC 
account with HSBC. He says it isnt written anywhere within  the documents  that HSBC 
offered an execution-only service. I accept that HSBC hasnt expressly  written  in any of the 
documents provided about its advice service  that customers  can open investment accounts  
themselves. But I wouldnt  necessarily expect these documents to highlight  this as they 
relate to the advice  service. That said, HSBC needed to provide information that was clear, 
fair and not misleading about  this service. So I would expect these documents to be clear 
about the fees payable  and what options customers have if they didnt wish to proceed.  As 
Ive said above,  I think the video and disclosure document were  clear about this.
Furthermore, Mr M hasnt actually said that he asked  the adviser directly whether or not he 
could open the investment accounts himself without incurring any fees or taking advice. Hes 
referred to misrepresentation by omission instead.  But I wouldve expected him to ask what 
other options he had if he wanted to transfer his investments but didnt want to use the 
advice service or pay a fee. I wouldnt have expected the adviser to volunteer  this 
information without  being asked. So, I dont  think its unreasonable  that the adviser didnt tell 
him this.
On balance, I think HSBC  wouldve told Mr M he could open the accounts himself  if hed 
asked this question  directly. This information  is freely available  in the investment section of 
HSBCs website, where it explains what options  are available if customers want to choose 
their investments themselves. So, I dont think HSBC wouldve withheld this information  from 
Mr M if hed asked.
Overall, I think Mr M most likely wanted the adviser  to review his investments, knowing  that 
this would result in him paying an advice fee. If he hadnt wanted  to receive any advice or 
pay a fee, Im satisfied  Mr M wouldve  declined  to go through  the process as he was made 
aware he could  do so.
Ive taken into account Mr Ms comments that the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA) and UK 
Trading Standards support his complaint. I havent  seen evidence  to this effect and I cant 
comment on the views taken by each of these organisations. I have, however, taken into 
consideration the relevant  rules  and regulations, including the FCAs Principles of Business, 
when making my decision.  But having  had sight of all of the relevant evidence, I dont think  
HSBC has treated Mr M unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4762570