K820x#14complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with how Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) managed her 
fixed term deposit savings  account. Shes also unhappy with the service she received.
background
Mrs S had money invested  in a fixed term deposit savings account with Yorkshire  Bank. The 
account was due to mature on 26 January 2017. Mrs S says she went into the branch two or 
three weeks before it matured and was told by a member of staff that it would roll-over into a 
new fixed term deposit savings account  with an interest rate of 2.08%.
Mrs S contacted Yorkshire Bank  at the start of September 2017 and discovered that instead 
the interest rate was 0.90%. She immediately complained both about the rate and that she 
hadnt been notified.
Yorkshire Bank said it didnt send  Mrs S a maturity  letter because a letter  it had sent in 
April 2016 had been returned marked as Return  to sender, not at this address. It said it sent 
Mrs S a text message when the post was returned  to let her know,  but heard nothing back 
so it put a block on post going out. Mrs S says she didnt receive a text message.
Yorkshire Bank agreed to close the account  without penalty so Mrs S could reinvest  the 
money elsewhere. Mrs S decided to reinvest part of the money in a new fixed term deposit  
account, part in a cash ISA and asked  the rest be returned to her. The cash ISA was 
opened, but Mrs S complained the paperwork had been sent to her home address rather  
than the correspondence address shed been using. She also complained that the term 
deposit account details were wrong  and that there  was a delay  in opening it. Yorkshire  Bank 
opened the term deposit account in November 2017, but backdated it to the start of 
September (when Mrs S had originally  complained). Mrs S has now complained that 
Yorkshire Bank is still sending paperwork to the correspondence address after she asked it 
to now send everything to her home  address.
Yorkshire said that it had taken too long to investigate Mrs Ss complaint about going  into a 
branch. So it paid her £250 to say sorry for that.  It also paid her a further £100 as a gesture 
of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said - in summary - that the sums already 
paid were fair. He didnt  think Yorkshire had done anything wrong when Mrs Ss letter  was 
returned as he was satisfied a text message was sent and that was enough. He also said 
Yorkshire Banks offer to backdate the interest  on the new fixed  term deposit account in 
recognition of the delay in opening the account was fair. Mrs S didnt agree and so itd been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I trust Mrs S wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed 
her complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  dispute resolution service,  and Ive 
concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Mrs S but although Ive read and considered  the whole 
file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  point its not 
Ref: DRN41349872because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment  on it in order  to reach  
the right outcome. This service is impartial between,  and independent  from, consumers and 
businesses. What this means is that we dont represent either party,  and I dont act under  eithers  
instructions or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what  questions  should be 
asked or answered.
I can see from her complaints to Yorkshire  Bank that Mrs S sees  error or wrong-doing  in 
almost everything Yorkshire  Bank has done  (or not done). The relationship between a 
customer and a bank  is important and can involve complex issues. So its important that 
theres confidence, truth and trust on both sides. Regardless of whether or not Mrs S 
accepts this decision I think its important  that a line is drawn here and the parties look 
forward, rather than back at what has gone before.
returned post
Before I go any further I need to be clear that Yorkshire Bank  did nothing wrong when it 
added the gone away marker to Mrs Ss account so post was suppressed.  Indeed, Im 
likely to have been more critical if it hadnt  done  so. Ultimately, although it wasnt  the case 
for Mrs S that she had gone  away, if it had been then it was much  safer  for her for her mail 
to have been stopped.
This is an unusual set-up as Mrs S has explained  that the correspondence address she used 
was her sisters property,  and that she had a mail redirection in place  (and had done for 
many years) to send post onto her own residential  address. Its not clear  why Mrs S chose to 
do things this way, and its also not clear  at what point that process broke down  in 
April 2016. The letter was correctly addressed to Mrs S at the correspondence address,  and 
Yorkshire Bank kept a copy of the letter and the envelope it was in when the post was 
returned.
Gone away  markers are an important tool in helping to prevent fraud,  and help to protect  
consumers information.  Its not clear  why the April 2016 letter  was returned but Im satisfied 
- having  considered all the evidence - that it was returned with a handwritten comment  to say 
Mrs S wasnt  at the address. As Ive not found Yorkshire Bank  made a mistake here I wont 
be upholding this part of the complaint. 
Yorkshire Bank says it sent a text message  to Mrs S when the post was returned. Mrs S 
says she couldnt  have received it as she wouldnt have just ignored  it. Mrs S has also said 
she was told the correct process would be for the returned post to be passed  to her local 
branch and for them to contact her. Yorkshire Bank  has shown us the mobile phone  number  
it sent the text message to and that matches  the one Mrs S is still using now, so Im satisfied  
a message was sent to the right number. Its not clear why Mrs S didnt receive it. Ive also 
got a copy of the confidential internal document that sets out Yorkshire Banks  process for 
dealing with returned post and Im satisfied that doesnt involve the matter being  passed to 
the branch for it to deal with as Mrs S believes. It may be Mrs S was told that was the 
process, but that would  have been an honest mistake as it wasnt  the process. Having 
considered everything  Im satisfied Yorkshire Bank  did nothing  wrong in only sending  a text 
message to Mrs S and awaiting contact from her, so I dont uphold this part of her complaint.
roll-over of the fixed term deposit account
Mrs S says she went into a branch two or three  weeks before the fixed  term deposit  account  
matured, so that means her visit would have been in early  January 2017. Mrs S has also 
Ref: DRN41349873repeatedly told both Yorkshire  Bank  and us who she spoke to, naming the member of staff 
involved. But that cant be true as the member of staff Mrs S insists she spoke to in 
January 2017  and who promised to reinvest  her money at a rate of 2.08% had left Yorkshire  
Bank some ten months earlier in March 2016. So its simply not possible that the person 
named made any such promise  to Mrs S in January 2017. Its also unlikely that any branch 
staff member would  have told Mrs S that she could have a rate of 2.08% when the highest 
rate Yorkshire Bank was offering at that time on its fixed  term deposit accounts was 0.90%. 
Branch staff would be aware of the then current rates  available and its unlikely that such  a 
big mistake would have  been made in terms of the rates available.
Mrs S couldnt have obtained a rate higher  than 0.90% in January 2017, and its also been 
shown that Mrs S is wrong in her recollections that a particular staff member  promised her 
something different.  Taking everything into account theres no basis  for me to order  
Yorkshire Bank gives Mrs S the 2.08% rate shes mentioned backdated to January 2017.  
Yorkshire Bank putting things right
Yorkshire Bank agreed to close the roll-over account without penalty which it didnt  need  to 
do as Im satisfied it didnt do anything wrong in rolling the account over as it did. Its also 
paid a total of £350  to Mrs S in compensation. In her letter  to our investigator Mrs S claimed 
the compensation was broken down into various  amounts  for different elements; such as  
she claims - £100 for not making an effort to find her address,  £100  for the branch staff 
member telling her the money would be reinvested  at 2.08% and £50 for the problems in 
opening the two new accounts.  Its not clear  why Mrs S thinks the compensation is broken 
down that way, and Yorkshire  Bank  has confirmed  it isnt. Mrs Ss breakdown  doesnt  make 
sense as Yorkshire Bank wouldnt  be paying  compensation to her for parts of her complaint 
it didnt uphold. In any event I consider the sums already paid are more  than sufficient  for the 
relatively small errors Im satisfied Yorkshire  Bank made.
There was no delay  in opening the ISA as it was opened the same day Mrs S confirmed that 
was what she wanted, so theres  no basis  to backdate that. Mrs S clearly  received the 
paperwork for the ISA as she immediately complained that it had been  sent to her home 
address rather than the correspondence address (albeit in later calls Mrs S claimed not to 
have received the paperwork for either account). As Mrs S has now said she wants  all post 
sent to her home  address  (rather than the correspondence address) theres nothing 
Yorkshire Bank needs to do to put anything right with the ISA.
Yorkshire Bank has admitted there was mistakes and confusion  when it was setting up the 
new fixed term deposit account for Mrs S. And for that it backdated the opening  of the 
account to the start of September 2017  which is when Mrs S originally complained.  Thats 
fair and Im satisfied Yorkshire Bank doesnt  need  to do anything more.
other issues
Mrs S has sent us a copy of a letter she received from Yorkshire Bank which  is addressed to 
 and intended for  a completely unconnected third-party. Mrs S says if she wrote to that 
third party and told him, he wouldnt be happy and its a sign that Yorkshire Bank staff arent 
doing their jobs properly. When Mrs S told Yorkshire  Bank  of the mistake  in a call in 
December 2017  Yorkshire Bank asked Mrs S to dispose of the letter securely.  Im sure 
Mrs S did immediately destroy the original as she clearly understands she shouldnt  have 
had sight of that letter. Its not clear  what else Mrs S expects Yorkshire Bank  to do here as 
its cant undo what was done  the letter was received and read by Mrs S  and shes  
Ref: DRN41349874incurred no financial loss (or risk to her personal  data) due to receiving  a letter  intended for 
someone else.
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when  a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. In this case it was simple  human  error that meant someone  elses  letter was 
enclosed with Mrs Ss. I wouldnt award  compensation to Mrs S for receiving someone elses  
letter, shes  not incurred  any financial  loss in doing  so, and its not the role of this service to 
fine or punish businesses. So I make  no order or award here.
Mrs S has raised some new issues whilst this complaint was ongoing, such as problems 
since she asked Yorkshire  Bank  to change the address on the accounts to her home 
address and issues with branch staffing levels and what  she deems incompetence. We cant  
look at issues that havent already been considered  by the business  complained  about,  so 
Mrs S will need  to make a fresh complaint to Yorkshire Bank  (if she still wants  to, and hasnt 
already done so) if she wants those issues looked at.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense I consider  the sums already paid by Clydesdale  
Bank Plc are fair.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which  means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under  the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my 
decision before  1 March  2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4134987