K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Ms T complain about mortgage advice given by an appointed representative of 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited.
background
In 2005, Mr W and Ms T took advice from L&G about re-mortgaging.  Acting on L&Gs 
recommendation, they moved to a new lender,  fixing  their mortgage interest rate for two 
years. They  took single premium PPI policies and consolidated a £500 overdraft into the 
mortgage. They also received around  £6,600  in cash once the borrowing had completed.
In 2007, Mr W and Ms T took further advice  and re-mortgaged again. They moved lender, 
this time consolidating around  £18,000  in unsecured debt. They also borrowed more  money 
to renovate their bathroom.
Theyre now represented by a CMC, which complains on their behalf. It says both the 2005 
and 2007 re-mortgages were unsuitable.  It says they shouldnt have consolidated their 
unsecured debts because there was no need  to do so. They didnt  have any particular need 
to re-mortgage  and should have  remained with their existing lender. 
Our investigator thought the 2007 advice was suitable. But he didnt think the overdraft should 
have been consolidated in 2005, and he didnt think  Mr W and Ms T wanted  or needed the 
extra £6,600. He said L&G should refund the interest charged  on that amount since.
The CMC didnt reply. L&G didnt accept the investigators view, and asked for an ombudsman 
to look at the case. I took a different view,  so I issued a provisional decision. I said:
In 2005, Mr W and Ms T were on a variable rate with their existing lender. The CMC says 
they were subject to an early repayment  charge, but Ive seen no evidence of that and the 
paperwork from the time suggests there  was no ERC. 
The fact find records that Mr W and Ms Ts main priority at the time was to reduce their 
outgoings. Taken as a whole, this recommendation didnt achieve  that. However, that was 
in part due to the expensive single  premium PPI policies they also took out  as L&G 
dealt with a complaint about those in 2012  Ill say no more  about them here.
I think the mortgage advice itself, PPI apart,  was suitable. Mr W and Ms T achieved  the fixed 
rate they wanted. I dont think the broker was obliged to recommend their previous lender  
and even if she had done, Mr W and Ms T would still have been charged for her advice. The 
mortgage recommended  was the best available product that met their requirements   other 
than the fact that cashback was repayable for a year after the fixed rate ended, which  might  
have made  it more expensive for them to take a new rate at that point. But this was clearly 
explained to Mr W and Ms T at the time and they preferred the cashback option. 
I see no need for the additional £6,600 that was raised. Theres no record that Mr W and 
Ms T needed or wanted extra borrowing. L&G suggests that it was, in part, because  of 
some confusion over the balance needed. Thats possible, but doesnt explain the full 
amount. I dont think the mortgage the broker arranged met their requirements in this 
respect, since unnecessary borrowing was raised  and would have to be paid for, 
despite Mr W and Ms Ts desire  to reduce not increase their outgoings. 
Ref: DRN42261392However, I dont agree  with our investigator  that L&G should refund the interest Mr W and Ms T 
have paid on that extra borrowing. Ultimately, if they didnt want  it they could have repaid it 
without cost. Ive seen no evidence they did that  and if they didnt, they didnt mitigate their 
loss and it wouldnt be fair to give them what would in effect become an interest  free loan. 
I also dont think consolidating the overdraft was particularly necessary. It was only £500, 
and their other debts  werent consolidated.  But Im not persuaded theres  any loss here 
either. It seems to me to be very unlikely that the overdraft interest rate was lower  than the 
mortgage interest rate. And given that in the two years after 2005 Mr W and Ms T 
increased their unsecured  debt to over £18,000,  I dont think its likely they would have 
cleared the overdraft had it not been  consolidated. Not doing so would therefore have 
been more expensive in terms of interest  paid than consolidating it, and so theres no loss.
Turning to 2007, I also think this was a suitable recommendation. By this time,  as Ive said,  
Mr W and Ms T had run up considerable extra unsecured debt.  Their  representative points 
out that small credit card balances could have been  paid off in a relatively  short time. But 
they had several  small balances. Between them they added  up to a fairly significant  monthly  
commitment  on top of other loans and debts.  Mr W and Ms T were  spending over £500 per 
month on unsecured  debt and had only £16 per month disposable income,  so things were 
very tight.  They had a real need  to reduce  their outgoings and this recommendation achieved  
that  while  still allowing  them to raise the extra funds they wanted for their bathroom. Had 
the debts not been consolidated, that wouldnt have happened.
The CMC didnt accept  my provisional decision.  It asked me to think  again  about the debt 
consolidation, as it said the outstanding balances were small and should have been kept 
separate from the mortgage. And it said the broker had received undeclared commission.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in my provisional decision  why, although  the balances  were small, I thought debt 
consolidation was appropriate since it reduced Mr W and Ms Ts outgoings  to the point at 
which their objectives  were affordable. As no further  evidence or argument has been put 
forward about that, I havent changed  my mind.
I havent considered  or investigated whether there was undeclared commission, since that 
was not part of the complaint the CMC brought, and L&G hasnt had a chance  to deal with it 
 and it doesnt directly  impact on my overall findings about  whether the advice  was suitable. 
If the CMC wishes to complain about  that now, that will have to be dealt with separately.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 October  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4226139