K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about  their Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  (Lloyds)  home  
insurance premium increasing because  it considers  their home  to be at high risk of flooding.
background
Mr and Mrs C had home insurance with Lloyds  for 12 years.  When  they received their offer 
to renew their policy in August 2017  they were  disappointed with the cost of the renewal  
premium. So they contacted  Lloyds to discuss why it had increased  so much.  Lloyds told 
them that it was because their home was in an area it considered to be at high risk of 
flooding. Mr and Mrs C disagreed. They said theyd lived in their cottage  for 29 years  and not 
once had it flooded  or been at risk of flooding. They said the nearest river was 200m away 
down a steep  bank. 
Mr and Mrs C also said that at no point  in the 12 years theyd had insurance  with Lloyds had 
it mentioned their premium was weighted for risk of flood. 
Mr and Mrs C complained  to Lloyds. It looked  into their complaint but didnt think  itd done 
anything wrong. It said their property was in a flood risk area and that the risk of flood was 
one of the factors it took into account when calculating what  premium to charge. It said it 
used external data and modelling companies to assist it in establishing flood risk but was 
unable to confirm  when it decided their home to be at increased risk of flood. Lloyds said it 
was unable to provide  an exact explanation for the increase in their premium  because how it 
calculated price was confidential. Finally it said the annual renewal document was only an 
invitation which they didnt have to accept if the premium didnt reflect  the cover and service 
they required. 
Unhappy with Lloyds  decision, Mr and Mrs C complained to this service.  Our adjudicator 
looked into their complaint  but didnt recommend that it was upheld. He said Lloyds had 
provided us with evidence to show there was a gradient on the terrace  where  they lived.  He 
said Lloyds was entitled to assess the risk it was taking on in whatever way it wished so long 
as it did so fairly to all its customers and didnt  single them out in any way. 
Mr and Mrs C asked for their complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans  decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate that it will come  as 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs C, Im unable to uphold  their complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant tell Lloyds what price it needs to charge  to cover the risk for Mr and Mrs Cs home 
insurance. Thats for it to decide, based in part on the risk it thinks there is of them needing 
to make a claim and its wider commercial  requirements. What this service can do though, 
when a consumer  complains about  the price they have been charged, is look at whether the 
insurer has treated the consumer fairly  and whether it can explain why its charged the price 
it has. We can then explain to the consumer  that weve  checked  the price  theyve been 
charged and are satisfied  that theyve been treated  fairly  and in line with the way that the 
insurer has treated all its other customers with similar risk profiles. 
Ref: DRN49937252Lloyds told Mr and Mrs C that their policy premium had increased  because it assessed their 
property to be at high risk of flooding. Lloyds has shared with us its flood risk criteria specific 
to Mr and Mrs Cs address. And it has been able to show us that it considers their property to 
be at high risk of river flooding. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C think the data Lloyds is relying on must be flawed because  
they say their home has never been  at risk of flooding  and because  the other  property at the 
end of their terrace of 5 houses isnt considered by Lloyds to be at the same  risk, nor is the 
next terrace along their side of the road. They have said the whole terrace  is on a flat 
surface so Lloyds mustve  treated them in an arbitrary manner which has led to them being  
overcharged. 
The information about the flood  risk to Mr and Mrs Cs property that Lloyds has shared with 
us is commercially  sensitive. So Im afraid Im unable to share that with them. But Id like to 
reassure them that Ive checked it very carefully.  I can see that it shows  there is a gradient 
on the terrace where they live. I know that Mr and Mrs C dispute this. But it wouldnt be fair 
for me to ignore  the documentary evidence that Lloyds has been able to provide. 
Insurers all assess  risk differently. What is high risk to one may not be to another. Insurers 
will also use different data when  assessing the risk posed. But thats not unfair.  We wouldnt  
generally tell Lloyds (or any insurer) that it should  use, or discount,  specific data. The risk is 
Lloyds to take on so it will decide how to assess it and will charge a price  accordingly. Each 
year, Lloyds is entitled to reassess its risk factors when setting the price of its policies. So 
prices can go up or down, depending on what it thinks the risks are that year for all of its 
customers. 
I see that Mr and Mrs C decided  not to renew  their policy  with Lloyds but instead  took out 
cover with another insurer for less. That insurers view of risk may well have been different to 
Lloyds. Indeed, its business model  and overheads arent likely to have been the same 
either. So the two prices  cant really be compared.  But having looked at all of the evidence 
presented, I havent  seen  anything to make me think that Lloyds treated Mr and Mrs C 
unfairly in setting the price of their policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2019. 
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4993725