K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ps complained that Society of Lloyds refused to pay her travel  insurance claim after 
she was unable to go on holiday.
For ease, whenever I refer to Society  of Lloyds or Lloyds this will include anything done  by 
the underwriters and its agents.
background
Mrs P was due to go on holiday.  At the airport there  was a disagreement  with security staff 
and the staff said they werent able to carry out standard security  procedures. The staff 
wouldnt let Mrs P board her flight and she wasnt able to go on her holiday. Mrs P claimed  
on her policy  with Lloyds  for her cancelled holiday.
Lloyds refused to pay Mrs Ps claim.  It said the policy only provided cancellation cover 
where the reason for cancellation was an event specified in the policy.  And Mrs P being 
refused boarding for her flight  wasnt one of those specified events.  
Mrs P didnt think this was fair and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think  
the reason Mrs P had to cancel  her holiday was covered by the policy. So she didnt ask 
Lloyds to do anything  else.  
Mrs P remained unhappy  as she thought Lloyds should cover  her claim. She also raised 
concerns about  her holiday  company  not wanting her to travel. She asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P was clearly distressed by what happened at the airport  however I can only look at 
what Lloyds as her insurer might, or might  not, have done  wrong.  That means I cant  make 
findings on any concerns Mrs P has about the airport staff or holiday company. 
Mrs Ps policy says that it will cover the costs  she cant  get back for travel and 
accommodation if her trip has to be cancelled. But the policy says it will only pay out if the 
cancellation is caused by certain specific events which are set out under  the heading of 
cancellation or curtailment charges. 
Ive summarised the specified events the policy covers  as:
death, bodily injury, illness, disease  or complications of pregnancy 
being quarantined, called as a witness or called for jury service
redundancy
members of the armed forces, emergency services or government  departments  
having authorised leave  cancelled
needing to remain at home  due to serious  damage within  the home caused by 
specified incidents.
Ref: DRN44020892The policy doesnt  cover  every eventuality and for that reason sets out the circumstances in 
which it will provide cover. Ive looked  carefully  at the circumstances where Lloyds will cover 
cancellation and I dont think what happened in Mrs Ps case  fits any of these.
Ive also looked  at other sections of the policy but there isnt anything I can see that provides 
cover for what happened to Mrs P. 
I appreciate Mrs P doesnt think what happened at the airport was her fault and I understand 
her strength  of feeling about  this. However,  that doesnt change  that what happened isnt 
covered by the policy. As Mrs Ps holiday was cancelled  due to something that wasnt  
covered by the policy Im not going  to interfere with the decision Lloyds made to turn down 
her claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN4402089