K820x#14complaint
Mr U complains that delays in refunding his account  led to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
(Creation) charging late payment fees. He says his credit file was damaged and they 
should not have withdrawn access to an on-line payment facility when his account 
subsequently fell into arrears.
background
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr U, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I can see there were some delays in Creation cancelling a purchase and that this led them to 
believe Mr U had missed payments in January and February 2019. But that wasnt  the case. 
Mr U had simply not paid for an item he had returned. 
late payment charges
I can see that a £30 charge was made to Mr Us account in January 2019. But when 
Creation realised their mistake they removed  this charge. There  are no other charges Ive 
been able to identify that relate to this mistaken  missed payment.
credit file
Creation have explained that theyve removed reference to the January and February  2019  
missed payments from Mr Us credit file. That seems reasonable. 
I can understand that Mr U would  have been upset about any wrongly  reported  information, 
but Ive not seen evidence  that he was financially disadvantaged by the credit file report. And 
I can see that Creation  were fair when  crediting  his account with £40 to compensate  him for 
the delay in reporting the returned  item. 
suspension of the On-line  Account Manager (OAM) facility
Creation have explained that their terms and conditions allow them  to suspend this online 
facility when an account is in arrears. I therefore understand that would be the case when 
Ref: DRN42412172they thought Mr Us account  was in arrears and were  unaware of the return  of goods. I cant 
say Creation were  therefore wrong to deny Mr U access to the portal and I can see that 
other payment facilities were offered to him to enable payment to be made.
reporting defaults whilst the complaint is in progress
Whilst some  companies will be prepared to withhold debt collection activities whilst a 
complaint is in process they dont have  to, and this service cant insist  they do so  its a 
business decision for them to make. So, whilst I understand Mr U is unhappy I cant say 
Creation did anything wrong  in that respect.
Overall, Im persuaded that Creation have done enough to resolve this situation  and Im 
therefore not asking them to take any further action.
my final decision
Fort the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4241217