K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Santander UK Plc wrongly  advised her to invest  £6,000  in an 
unsuitably risky investment (a PEP-sheltered UK Growth Fund) and was not made aware of 
the downsides  of the product either by the advisor or through  the literature.
background
Mrs Ss representative also said that she considered herself a novice  investor and planned 
to retire the following year (at the age of 60).
In 1999 Mrs S had recently lost her husband,  was earning around £1,000 a month and living  
in rented accommodation when she made  this investment. She withdrew £4,000 15 months 
later to fund a house deposit and left the remainder invested until 2016.
There are no extant  files about the advice or sales process.
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel her complaint  should  be upheld.
She said that in the absence of key paperwork it was impossible  to know what  had been 
discussed but she thought  the documentation provided at the time wouldve made clear  this 
was a risk-based  investment.  Further,  she noted that Mrs S had invested  an additional 
£7,000 in a medium-risk investment several  months after cashing in the £4,000. She also 
invested nearly £14,000 in a with-profits bond  at the same time. She had also made regular 
additional investments in the years ahead, albeit mainly in low risk products.
Given this, she didnt  feel there was sufficient evidence to safely  say that the 1999 advice 
had been wrong.
Mrs Ss representative did not agree, and said:
PEPs were designed to be medium to long-term investments (at least  five years)  so 
for Mrs S to withdraw  so much of her money after one year indicates she either  didnt 
have sufficient reserves to make this investment or that the advisor didnt take 
account of her planned expenditure  (including moving home)
This was  a high risk product  with 96% equity  exposure; Mrs Ss subsequent low and 
medium risk investments illustrate the fact that this product  posed  too much  risk
Santanders failure to retain key information is not a defence
Given her husband  had only recently  died she should have been  advised to wait 
longer before committing to a medium term investment; this became obvious  when 
she withdrew money to purchase  a property
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to explain that when considering whether to uphold a complaint this service  
needs to see sufficient, persuasive evidence to safely conclude that a business did 
something wrong; in this case, offered unsuitable  advice.
Ref: DRN44488092In essence, while I have some concerns about  the advice given Mrs Ss age and decision to 
withdraw so much of the money so soon, I dont think there is sufficient  evidence  to fairly 
conclude that the advice  was definitely  wrong.
Given the absence  of official paperwork and the very limited  evidence provided by Mrs S or 
her representative, I cannot  assess how much  investment experience  she had prior to this 
point. Nor can I be sure of her overall financial situation including how much money she had 
available in cash accounts and other investments. I therefore cannot  assess whether this 
was a small, modest  or large portion of her readily-available  assets  or what her overall 
financial objectives were  at the time.
I acknowledge that the product posed  significant risk given the amount  of equity exposure 
although I dont  accept this could fairly be described  as high risk given it was a mainstream, 
regulated product broadly-based  in UK equities.  In my view it wouldve been fairly described  
as a typical medium risk product and as such I dont think there is sufficient  evidence  to say 
Mrs S should not have  been advised to invest any money in it. I dont know how much of her 
money was invested  so cant say if it was an appropriate amount.
Equally, I dont know whether she planned to purchase a property within  a year of this 
investment or whether  she explained  this to the advisor. However, the fact that she made 
very substantial investments shortly after the £4,000 encashment casts  doubt on whether 
she needed  to do this to buy the property.
Overall, I simply do not think there is sufficient evidence to uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4448809