K820x#14complaint
Mr M is represented  by his son in bringing this complaint but, for clarity,  Ill be referring to all 
submissions as being made by Mr M directly.
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLCs decision to give him a second  credit card and 
increase his credit limit was irresponsible. He also complains that Barclays  made numerous 
errors when  sending copies of his account  statements. 
background
Mr M has two credit  card accounts with Barclays. The first was taken out in 1997, and the 
second was taken out in 1999. Both of the accounts had credit limit increases applied to 
them, and the last of those increases took place in 2011. 
In 2018, Mr Ms son called Barclays on his behalf. He explained  that Mr M was having issues 
with the affordability  of his accounts,  so Barclays offered to reduce the interest rate on them 
to help Mr M. But when  Mr M was told about  what the bank had offered he complained. 
Mr M said that hed called Barclays himself in 2017 to explain that hed been paying  as much 
as he could on the accounts  but his balances werent reducing. He said the bank hadnt  
offered to reduce his interest  rate at the time of that call, and had instead told him to look at 
his accounts as if he were  repaying a loan. Mr M said that Barclays had acted irresponsibly 
in giving him the second credit card and increasing  his credit limits, because he was a 
pensioner and had only been making minimum repayments on his original card.  Mr M also 
said that he bank  had made a number of errors when it was asked to send  copies of his 
statements.
Barclays said it looked into what had happened  but didnt think  it had acted  irresponsibly in 
lending to Mr M. It explained that Mr Ms accounts  would have been reviewed at the time of 
the lending, and he would have had to have met internal lending criteria before his 
applications were  approved.  It also explained that details about the credit limit increases 
would have been provided  on Mr Ms monthly statements. It did however,  acknowledge that 
it hadnt handled the issue regarding  the statements as well as it should  have, so it paid 
Mr M £75 in compensation  to recognise  the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr M remained unhappy with the banks response,  so he approached our service. One of 
our investigators looked at what had happened, but because of the amount of time that had 
passed since Barclays lending decisions  were  made, limited information was available  for 
him to consider.
Our investigator said that Barclays had explained it would have carried out affordability 
checks for each lending decision it had made and there wasnt anything to show that Mr M 
was only making minimum repayments at the time he was given the second card.  He said 
that the last credit limit increase on any of the accounts took place in 2011  and, although  the 
affordability check from that time wasnt available, there wasnt anything in Mr Ms 
statements that suggested the accounts  had been  unaffordable for him or he was having  any 
financial difficulty. Based on what was available,  our investigator couldnt  say that Barclays 
had lent to Mr M irresponsibly.
Mr M disagreed, he said that hed paid thousands  in interest on the accounts and, as an 
elderly gentleman,  the bank had abused  him. He said that, at the very least, Barclays  should 
Ref: DRN40542112backdate his interest rate. So as no agreement has been reached at this stage, the case  has 
come to me, as an ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr M has set out his concerns at length 
and I appreciate his strength of feeling  about what has happened.  
Our investigator has already explained that the lending decisions made  in relation to this 
complaint happened a long time ago. So, very little information about them still remains.  
Banks will have their own criteria that are considered when making decisions about lending, 
and Barclays has told this service  that Mr M would  have been subject to an affordability 
check at time he was approved for the second  credit card. It has said that check would have 
included both internal and external checks, and has said that Mr M would have had to have 
met its internal lending  criteria before being approved for the second card. 
Mr M says he shouldnt  have been given that second card,  because  he was a pensioner at 
the time and was only making minimum repayments  on the first. But no information about 
the payments  he was making at the time is now available.  Neither  is the information about  
Barclays lending criteria at the time.  So, theres  no information about  what  Barclays  asked 
for at the time, what was provided to it, or what it considered before making its decision to 
lend. 
When making decisions about whether to lend or not, Id expect a bank to consider a 
number of different  factors. In this case,  I think its reasonable to have expected Barclays to 
look at the way Mr M was managing his existing  account with the bank, as part of its 
decision making process. Im aware that Mr M has said Barclays shouldnt have lent to him 
because he was a pensioner and only making  minim repayments.  But I dont think it would  
have been fair of Barclays to refuse  to lend to him just because  he was a pensioner. And, 
without more to show  what  information was available and considered  by the bank at the 
time, its hard for me to conclude that Barclays  did anything wrong in approving this second  
card.
Also, even if I was in receipt of this evidence, Im not persuaded that making minimum 
repayments on another card would have been  a reason to refuse Mr Ms second credit 
application either. So although I appreciate Mr Ms position, for the reasons given above, I 
cant fairly say that Barclays  acted  irresponsibly  in giving  him a second card.
Our investigator explained that the last credit limit increase that took place on either of 
Mr Ms accounts was in 2011.  Again,  information about the checks  that Mr M would have 
been subject to at the time is no longer available. 
Mr M says that Barclays should  have  done  more to recommend a more suitable product for 
him, but I cant see that theres anything relating to the management of Mr Ms account that 
would have suggest to the bank that this product was unsuitable,  or that he was unable  to 
afford the lending it had already given  him. Mr M was making  at least  the minimum monthly 
repayments on his accounts, he was always below  his credit limit, and if a payment  was late, 
which was not often, it was generally caught  up the following month.  So again, I cant fairly 
say that Barclays acted irresponsibly. 
Ref: DRN40542113Mr M has made particular reference to the FCAs latest position on persistent  debt and has 
said Barclays should have  done  more to help him manage his account because  it was not 
suitable for running a long term debt. Whilst I appreciate  Mr Ms points here,  our investigator 
has already explained that the FCAs current approach was not in place at the time of the 
events related to this complaint and, in the circumstances of this case, it would be unfair  of 
me to say Barclays had acted irresponsibly  because  of that. Having said that, I would have 
expected Barclays  to try and understand the difficulties that Mr M was facing at the point it 
became aware  of them. And I would have  expected  it to treat him positively and 
sympathetically in relation  to what it could do to help. 
Mr M has said he told Barclays he was struggling with his account in 2017, but the available 
evidence in this case doesnt support that. There is, quite disappointingly, no recording of the 
call Mr M had with the bank in 2017, and the banks notes  relating to it only say that Mr M 
had called to set up a direct  debit. The first record that I can see of Barclays becoming 
aware of any difficulty that Mr M was having is in 2018, when  his son called the bank to say 
his father  was struggling. At this point, Barclays appear to have offered to lower  the interest  
rate on Mr Ms accounts. And in all the circumstances,  I think  that was fair. 
I dont doubt the upset  and frustration that Mr M and his family feel about the lending that 
took place in this complaint. But unfortunately, based on all the available  evidence, Im not 
persuaded that Barclays acted irresponsibly in lending to Mr M. 
I can see that Mr M had a number of problems getting Barclays to send copies of his 
account statements  and was caused some  inconvenience because  of that. I can also see 
that Barclays acknowledged it could have provided  a better level of service in relation to that, 
and has paid Mr M £75 to recognise the trouble and upset caused. Im satisfied that amount  
reasonably recognises  the impact its poor service had. And Im not persuaded that it needs 
to do any more in this regard.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019. 
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4054211