K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland  plc trading as Halifax mis-sold a Junior  ISA to him.
To settle  matters hed like Halifax to admit it was wrong, for the account to be closed and for 
the funds to be paid to him.
background
Mr C is represented in this complaint by his wife, Mrs C. Mr C visited  a branch  of Halifax  and 
opened a Junior  ISA (JISA) for Mrs Cs grand-daughter  in late September  2012. Halifax 
admitted the account was mis-sold because this type of account  can only be opened by a 
parent or guardian.  It offered £200 by way of apology.
However, Halifax said it couldnt return the funds  in the account  to Mr C. It said that when the 
account was opened Mr C had accepted the terms and conditions   and they didnt  allow 
access to the funds until the child turned 18. Instead, it said the account could be closed but 
the funds would need to be paid to the child.
Mr C was unhappy with Halifaxs  response and he referred his complaint to this service.  Mr 
C explained that hed wanted  an account  that would become his step grand-daughters when 
she turned  18, but which he could access in the meantime,  if needed. Our investigator  didnt 
think there was enough  evidence  to show Mr C had wanted an account that restricted  
access until his step grand-daughter  turned 18. So he recommended that Halifax should  
refund 50% of the current value of the JISA to Mr C.
Mr C and Halifax both disagreed with the investigators view. Mr C said only a payment to 
him of 75% or more  of the funds in the account would reflect the mistake  Halifax  had made. 
Halifax also disagreed.  Halifax provided  interview notes at the time the account was opened  
and based on this further information the investigator changed his view.
He thought Mr C was aware  he was choosing an account that didnt  allow access to the 
funds. He also thought the funds were always intended for his step grand-daughter so he 
thought Halifaxs  mistake hadnt affected the intended  outcome of the funds. He therefore 
didnt think it appropriate that the funds should be returned to Mr C. On balance he thought  
Halifaxs original offer was a fair reflection of the error it had made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint . Halifax admits  that it shouldnt  have 
opened the JISA.  I therefore need  to think about  the impact  this mistake has had on Mr C 
and what is a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances.
Mrs C has explained that Mr C had wanted  an account that became his step grand-
daughters once she turned 18 but that was accessible to purchase things for her, if needed.  
Im satisfied that he always intended  the funds to be used  not for his own benefit  but for his 
step grand-daughters benefit.
The interview notes  provided by Halifax at the time the account was opened show  that Mr C 
wanted to save  money  for between 0-5 years  and he didnt need  full access to the funds. 
Under important information the notes say no withdrawal can be made  from this account 
Ref: DRN40188812before the age of 18. The notes also record that two other  types of account were discussed 
but a JISA was chosen because he wanted  to save tax-free until the age of 18.
Mr C has pointed out that the interview  sheet isnt signed or dated. In cases like this I make 
my decision  based  on the available evidence.  Evidence can take many forms but it carries 
more weight if it is in documentary form  as is the case with the interview notes Halifax  has 
provided. Even though they arent signed  or dated  I can take them  into account to show what  
was most likely to have been discussed  when the account was opened.
Based on the interview notes I think Mr C was aware he was choosing an account that didnt 
allow withdrawals to be made. And as Ive already explained I think  it was always his 
intention that the funds  were intended for his step grand-daughters  benefit.
The rules  surrounding  JISAs provide that once the funds are placed in the account they 
became his step grand-daughters  and she will receive the funds once she reaches 18. Mr C 
hasnt lost out financially because his step grand-daughter will have the benefit  of the funds 
as he always intended. Im afraid his belief that the funds are his isnt correct. So I cant  say 
Halifax acted unfairly in not returning  the money to him.
In these circumstances the compensation awarded by Halifax is more than I would have 
awarded had the complaint come to me without  an award being made. It remains  open  for 
Mr C to accept  the £200 offered by Halifax which Id expect  Halifax  to honour.
Mr C has asked for written  confirmation to confirm the closure of the JISA and 
confirmation that his step grand-daughter has been  contacted and received the funds. I 
think this is a reasonable request which Id expect Halifax to honour.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4018881