K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains about the quality of a car she was financing  through an agreement with 
PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA).
background
Miss R took receipt of a new car in September 2016. She financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with PSA. But she says she experienced  problems with the car from 
the onset. A brief summary  is as follows:
within a few weeks she returned  the car to the dealership as she said it was noisy  
and the engine cut out on its own at times. The dealership could not identify  a fault;
in December 2017 she identified paint peeling from the front of the car. This was 
repaired.
in April 2018 seals needed replacing  as there  was a leak in the boot;
in June 2018 the car lost power  and the engine was still noisy.  The car was 
recovered as it experienced  a water and oil leak. A split oil filter was identified;
August 2018   the bumper support was noted to be distorted and was repaired;
October 2018  the car would not start and the battery was replaced;
Miss R complained to PSA in June 2018. She said shed experienced problems with the car 
not starting and the engine cutting out since the inception of the agreement and she asked 
to be allowed to reject it and end the finance  agreement. 
PSA didnt agree. They wanted  Miss R to take the car back to the dealership  to be assessed  
but she refused  and instead she referred  her complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator provided an initial view in February  2019. He noted that Miss R had first 
reported the problem with the engine not starting, and stopping prematurely, in November 
2016 and that she was still complaining about  it in October 2018. He was persuaded that the 
problem still existed as he reviewed the video  evidence  provided by Miss R and time 
stamped in early  2019. He thought this demonstrated the faults she complained of and he 
was of the opinion that PSA should  therefore  allow Miss R to reject  the car and terminate  her 
finance agreement  with them.
PSA didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion and it was referred to me for a final decision.  
But in the meantime Miss R commissioned an independent inspection of the vehicle and 
subsequently part exchanged the car. So, as the initial adjudicators view could no longer be 
actioned I asked for this new evidence to be taken into account by a new adjudicator  or 
investigator before I made a final decision on the matter.  
The new investigator  reviewed the evidence provided in the independent  inspection.  The 
inspector wasnt able to replicate the starting  or stopping issues with the engine but he did 
note that the engine  idled unevenly; that there was excessive oil staining in the engine  
compartment and that the engines response to the throttle was lethargic. He recommended 
that further investigations take place.
The investigator thought that, on balance, there was sufficient evidence to suggest this 
brand new car was faulty from inception. He was persuaded that the faults Miss R had 
experienced from the beginning  were probably still present when the independent inspector 
provided his view in March 2019. He noted  this was a brand new car and that Miss R had to 
Ref: DRN44320862take it to the dealership on several  occasions during her ownership  to have various problems  
rectified. He didnt think this should be expected  on a brand new car and he therefore  
considered what  should  happen. He thought in the circumstances  that PSA should  refund 
Miss Rs deposit and that they should  pay her £405 to compensate her for the loss of use 
and enjoyment shed had from the car. But he didnt think it would be fair to ask them  to 
refund any of the monthly instalments she had made towards  her finance deal as he noted 
she had reasonable use of the vehicle.
Miss R accepted the investigators view but PSA didnt and they asked for a final decision by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint PSA so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss R acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is 
a regulated consumer  credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then PSA, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Miss R. The car 
here was brand new so I would not expect it to have any faults.
And when  I consider whether a car is satisfactory,  relevant legislation also encourages me to 
consider whether it has proven to be suitably durable.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask PSA to put this right.  
was the car faulty at inception?
Im persuaded that there is sufficient evidence to suggest there has been  a problem with the 
engine on this vehicle  since  inception. I say that because:
Ref: DRN44320863Miss R reported the issue  in November 2016 and no action appears to have taken 
place;
in October 2018 she still seems  to be complaining about the same issue;
video evidence provided by Miss R suggests the problem was still there in February 
2019;
the independent inspector suggested  there are problems with the engine  that need  
further investigation.
I think a reasonable  person would consider this persuasive evidence of an underlying  fault 
and as PSA were  unable to rectify that fault on the first occasion if Miss R still had the car I 
would be asking them to allow her to reject it and to end her finance  agreement  with them.
was the car suitably  durable?
This was a brand new car and I think Miss R was entitled to believe it would be fault free. 
Shes had to take it back to the dealership on several occasions to have rectification work 
completed. Whilst she appears to have been  able to complete a reasonable mileage in the 
car its not been  trouble  free and even if Im wrong about the car not being of satisfactory  
quality for the engine  fault; I dont think a reasonable person would think it had proven to be 
durable.
how do we put things right?
The cars now been part exchanged and the finance deal closed.
I think the investigators suggested remedy  is therefore sensible. PSA should return  Miss Rs 
deposit as this would have been returned  to her if Id ordered  a rejection of the vehicle and 
thats what I would have done  had the car still been  in her possession.
Theres also been some  loss of enjoyment  and some loss of use whilst the car has been in 
the garage. So I think the investigators suggestion that £405 is paid by PSA in relation to 
this is sensible.  Although  Id agree that Miss R has been able to cover  a reasonable mileage 
in the car and Id not think it fair to order any refund of her finance instalments.
Ref: DRN44320864my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell PSA Finance UK Limited to:
refund  the deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement of this complaint;
pay Miss R £405 to compensate her for loss of enjoyment and loss of use.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4432086