K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
between 1996  and 2001. Mr P says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mr P aware the PPI was optional and gain his consent before adding  it 
to his card. There isnt much paperwork available from the time the policy  was sold but this 
isnt surprising considering the time that has passed  and that businesses arent required to 
keep this type of information indefinitely. From the information that is available  I dont have 
enough to say that Lloyds  didnt present the policy as optional, or that Mr P didnt choose to 
have it.
Lloyds is unable to say whether or not it recommended the policy to Mr P so it has treated 
this complaint as though it did make a recommendation. When a business recommended  
PPI to a consumer it had to check that the PPI was right for them. Mr P has told us he would 
have been entitled to sick pay when  he took the PPI, had redundancy cover  and could  have 
relied on his partner for support if he was unable to make his card repayments.  But the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to Mr Ps sick pay, and for longer than he would have  
received full pay. It would  also have paid out in circumstances other than redundancy. And 
while Mr Ps partner would have wanted  to help their ability  to would have been dependent 
on their circumstances  at the time, which could have changed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ps circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said, but these points dont change my decision.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Ref: DRN42053942Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4205394