K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  treated him unfairly and, as a 
result, hes paid too much interest  on his mortgage. Hed like the interest refunded.
background
In February 2008  Mr R took out a mortgage with Halifax. He borrowed £50,000 over a 10 
year term on a capital repayment  basis. Halifax recommended a fixed  rate product  which  
applied until the end of the mortgage term as Mr R wanted to be protected from interest rate 
rises.
Mr R took out additional  borrowing, also on a capital  repayment  basis.  These loans were 
taken out on a non-advised basis:
£19,000 in June 2008 with a 10 year term and a fixed  rate product for the mortgage term. 
£21,000 in March 2009 with a 20 year term on Halifaxs  standard variable rate.
£10,000 in June 2009 with a 20 year term on a tracker rate.
Mr Rs 10 year mortgage loans were repaid by mid 2018. Halifax  asked him to attend a 
meeting to review  the remaining loans. The adviser  recommended a new fixed rate product 
with a lower rate of interest.  
Mr R says the adviser told him that the mortgage should have been reviewed every two 
years and, as this hadnt happened,  hed overpaid interest of about £17,000. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said Halifax  had 
written to Mr R before  his fixed  rate product came  to an end and hed been able to switch  his 
remaining loans to a better rate. It hadnt treated him unfairly.
Our investigator said there was no requirement  for Halifax to review Mr Rs accounts or 
inform him better rates were available before 2018. At that time a group of lenders  
including Halifax  agreed with the industry  trade body that they should  write to customers 
that qualify for better rates before the end of 2018  and Halifax  had done this. 
Mr R didnt agree, so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no suggestion here that interest was applied to Mr Rs account other than in 
accordance with the products hed agreed to take out. But Mr R says Halifaxs adviser told 
him in 2018 that his account should  have been  reviewed every  two years. And, because  this 
hadnt happened, he wasnt offered a better interest  rate. Mr R says he was told hed 
overpaid interest of about £17,000.  I understand why this information upset Mr R. But I dont 
think its correct.
Part of Mr Rs mortgage had fixed rate products which ended  in 2018, when his 10 year 
mortgage loans  expired.  Mr R would have  paid an early repayment  charge (ERC) if hed 
Ref: DRN45686652switched from these  products before they ended.  The rest of Mr Rs mortgage was on 
Halifaxs SVR and a lifetime tracker. 
After Mr Rs fixed rate products ended in 2018 he took out a new fixed  rate product for the 
remaining balance. Halifax says it contacts  customers about three months  before their 
product is due to end, which  I think is fair. Mr R says Halifax  contacted him and asked him to 
come to a meeting  to review his account.  I cant see that there was any requirement for 
Halifax to contact Mr R before this to review his account or offer him better interest  rates. 
I dont think Halifax made  an error  or treated Mr R unfairly by not contacting him sooner 
about switching  to a new product. 
In mid 2018  Halifax  recalculated Mr Rs account in line with the regulators requirements. 
Advances on the account were applied  to the mortgage balance. Without the advances the 
account appeared to be in arrears until Mr R made a payment later in the month.  Halifax  
apologised for not communicating  better with Mr R about this and paid £150  compensation. 
It confirmed this didnt  affect Mr Rs credit file. I think this is reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find that Bank of Scotland Plc 
responded fairly to Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4568665