K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (GLISE) caused delay when he called 
for assistance under his motor breakdown cover  policy.
background
Reference to GLISE as the underwriter of the policy includes its agents.
In July 2018 Mr Hs car wouldnt start and so he called GLSE  for assistance. An agent  
attended and said he couldnt repair Mr Hs car as there was a fault with the alternator. The 
agent advised Mr H not to drive his car and said it needed to be looked at by a franchised 
garage. This happened on a Thursday  evening.
Mr H and his family  were staying at a hotel for the weekend. His wife was working at a stand 
in another location while  they were  there.  So Mr H said he and his wife had brought a car 
each. Their plans  were that Mrs H would set up the stand at the site in the morning. Mr H 
and their children would enjoy the facilities of the hotel  and join her in the afternoons. 
Mr H arranged with a franchised garage to look at his car the following day. The garage told 
Mr H it would be able to look at his car provided it was there by 10am. So Mr H arranged  
with the recovery  agent to meet  him - at the site where his car had broken  down  - at 7am on 
the Friday.
However, the agent didnt arrive  in time.  So Mr H missed the appointment at the dealership  
garage. He made arrangements to instead meet the recovery agent on the Sunday at 4pm.  
The recovery agent didnt  arrive at the site until 8.20pm  on the Sunday. 
Mr H complained to GLISE.  He was very unhappy with the service he received from the 
roadside and recovery  agent. Mr H said his family plans  were  effectively ruined because he 
and their children had to join his wife in the mornings  due to having one car. So Mr H said 
they didnt enjoy the facilities of the hotel as planned. 
Mr H said the franchised  garage  told him there was no problem with the alternator and that 
Mr Hs car had a flat battery. So Mr H said the agent misdiagnosed the fault.  Had the agent 
correctly diagnosed the fault on the Thursday,  Mr H felt the inconvenience he and his family 
were put through could have been  avoided - as the battery could  have been  charged at the 
roadside.
Mr H wanted GLISE  to compensate him for the difference it cost to stay at their hotel 
compared to a more basic hotel  and to compensate him and his family  for the 
inconvenience caused. Mr H said he waited for long periods of time for the agent and spent 
considerable time making calls caused  by their delay. He thought the recovery  agent was 
unprofessional and made excuses. 
GLISE upheld  Mr Hs complaint and paid him £75 compensation  for the inconvenience 
caused. 
Mr H didnt think this was enough, so he asked us to look at his complaint. 
Ref: DRN49490632Our investigator thought GLISE hadnt gone  far enough to compensate  Mr H. She 
recommended GLISE increase the compensation it paid by a further  £125,  bringing the total 
award to £200.
GLISE accepted  the investigators  findings.  Mr H didnt agree. He feels  GLISE should 
reimburse him for the difference  in hotel costs  based on the fact that he and his family 
werent able to enjoy  the facilities. He said this was why they chose this particular hotel over 
a more basic hotel  nearby  which  theyve  also stayed at in the past.  
So Mr H would like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the investigators recommendation is reasonable  to put things  right. I appreciate that 
Mr H feels strongly  that he wasnt able to use the facilities  of the hotel as planned. He said it 
wasnt an option for him to use alternative transport  such as a taxi to join his wife in the 
afternoons  because  he had to be at the site with the car waiting for the recovery  agent to 
attend. And hes reiterated  that this could  have been avoided if the agent had correctly  
diagnosed the fault on the Thursday evening.  
Mr H has asked GLISE to pay the difference in the cost of his familys accommodation for 
the three nights. Mr H said the difference hes calculated  is between the cost of the hotel 
they stayed in  and a hotel they stayed in before  that doesnt have the same facilities.  
Mr H says the difference in cost comes  to £467.88.  
Mr H feels his request is fair because  they may as well have stayed  in the more basic  hotel - 
as they didnt get to enjoy the facilities  of their hotel. This is what  they paid more  for. Mr H 
says it wasnt possible for him to make any plans because the recovery agent was so 
unreliable. 
Any breakdown will cause  inconvenience. Unfortunately  I think  its inevitable.  Even  if the 
recovery agent had repaired  Mr Hs car on the Thursday evening, I think  the inconvenience  
caused here would have  been unavoidable. 
I can appreciate that delays caused by the agent  on the Friday and Sunday  meant Mr H was 
further inconvenienced over the weekend. But I dont think theres enough  for me to 
conclude that GLISE  should pay Mr H the difference in the hotel  price.  I think Mr H and his 
family were able to enjoy  the facilities  but not for as long or at the times they originally 
planned to. 
So I think GLISE should pay further  compensation to reflect  the poor service Mr H received. 
But I think a total award  of £200  is fair and reasonable  to put things right overall. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. I 
require Great Lakes  Insurance SE to pay Mr H £125 compensation for the inconvenience it 
caused him. This is in addition to the £75 compensation  its already paid. 
Ref: DRN49490633Great Lakes Insurance SE must  pay the compensation within  28 days  of the date on which  
we tell it Mr H accepts  my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate 
of 8% a year.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4949063