K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Miss C applied for through OSL Financial  Consultancy  
Limited. Shes unhappy with the service  OSL provided and doesnt  believe she should be 
expected to pay the broker fee.
background
Briefly, Miss C applied for a mortgage  with a lender  Ill call L, using OSL (under the trading  
name MortgageKey) as her broker. The application  was accepted in principle subject to 
underwriting. However, during  the course  of the underwriting, L learned that Miss C had 
been overdrawn on her current  account for a period, and decided  it wasnt prepared  to lend 
after all.
When OSL told Miss C this, she contacted L directly and appealed  the decision.  After 
reading her appeal and speaking  to her directly, L changed its mind  and agreed to lend after 
all. The mortgage  went on to complete, but Miss C complained that OSL hadnt done  enough  
to help her, not least because L had told her OSL hadnt tried appealing the decision itself.
OSL explained that it had contacted L to appeal  the reject decision; L had said no to OSLs  
appeal, but had also not made a note of its contact. Meanwhile, OSL had started looking for 
another lender, but that became unnecessary once L had responded positively to Miss Cs 
own appeal. OSL offered Miss C £50 off her broker fee of £695.
Our adjudicator though that was a fair offer on OSLs part, but Miss C asked for her 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman. She doesnt think  she should have to pay the 
broker fee at all.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
new for Miss C, because I think OSLs offer is fair too.
OSL provided Miss C with a Key Facts Illustration (or KFI) on 8 August 2018; that set out the 
terms on which L would  be willing to lend; subject to underwriting of a formal application. The 
KFI is, in effect, a precursor to the actual mortgage  offer that will follow if the application 
succeeds. 
The KFI also set out the various  fees and charges  Miss C would have to pay in connection 
with the mortgage application. One of those,  and the subject of the dispute here, was OSLs 
broker fee. I reproduce  below exactly how the broker fee is described in the KFI:
Broker Fee which is payable to MortgageKey  when  your mortgage completes. This fee is 
not refundable.  £695.
By agreeing to proceed on that basis, Miss C was committing to paying OSL £695 if her 
mortgage completed, and shes obliged to do so. Miss C argues that but for her intervention,  
the mortgage wouldnt have completed, and thered be no fee due. I take her point, but the 
fact is, her mortgage did complete, and so the fee is rightfully due. 
Ref: DRN45151712In any event, even  if the mortgage with L hadnt  completed, it doesnt automatically  follow  
that no mortgage would have completed. OSL had already begun  work on sourcing an 
alternative when  L changed  its mind  after Miss Cs direct intervention. 
Miss Cs suffered no loss here. Shes received  the mortgage she set out to get; the delay 
between L initially saying  no and changing  its mind  was minimal, and OSL has offered her 
£50 off the broker fee for the time and trouble  she was put to. Theres  no reason for me to 
order OSL to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4515171