K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Barrington  Jarvis  Limited  (BJL)  mis-sold them a whole of life policy  (in 
2006) designed  to protect their estate from an Inheritance Tax (IHT)  liability. They say the 
policy documentation  wasnt  clear  and they werent made fully aware that the policy was 
likely to become uneconomical in the future  (when the premiums inevitably rose after 
10 years).
background
At the time of advice  Mr and Mrs H had two existing whole  of life policies providing cover  of 
£146,000 and £150,000  respectively, the former set up on a level term basis  and the latter  
on a maximum  cover  basis.  This latter policy had recently failed  its first review  with cover 
being reduced significantly.
BJL, having  assessed Mr and Mrs Hs likely  current IHT liability  and their current  policies, 
recommended surrendering the second policy  and taking  out a new policy with a sum 
assured of £250,000 (for the first 10 years), and on a maximum cover basis. It said it had 
compared the cost of retaining their second  policy and only taking out new cover for 
£100,000 but it would  be far cheaper  to surrender the policy  and take out a new policy  with 
£250,000 of cover. It provided  the figures  in support of this.
BJL rejected  their complaint, saying Mr and Mrs H were only looking for medium  term cover 
for the full amount  of £250,000 as they were planning to reduce  their IHT liability  at some 
point. It said they were looking for the cheapest means of delivering this level of cover;  
hence the recommendation. They were fully aware the premiums would be reviewed after 
10 years;  the documentation made  this clear and Mr H owned other whole of life policies 
which had reviewable  terms.  
An investigator at this service felt the evidence supported BJLs interpretation of events, 
including its understanding of Mr and Mrs Hs objectives at the time and their likely 
knowledge of the policys reviewable  nature.  In particular, he noted that Mr H had admitted - 
in a January 2019 letter  - that it had been  their intention to reduce  their IHT liability,  partly by 
gifting sums  to their children.
Mr H disagreed, and said:
A whole of life policy is designed to pay out any point after death, not set up for a 
specific term
In this case it was based on their second death; the likelihood  of them  both dying 
within the first 10 years was minimal
If theyd only wanted 10 years cover, a fixed term assurance policy would have  been  
more suitable
The first whole of life policy he took out in 1989 is still going and there has been no 
need for an increase in the premiums; he thought this policy had similar review  
clauses
He had another plan which BJL recommended  he cancel when he took this one out; 
he now regrets this
He was aware the premium was reviewable but assumed any rise would be modest/ 
affordable, like his other  policies;  he was not warned  this one was very different
The investigator said this was set up on a maximum cover basis meaning it was 
always likely to fail the first review, which is what occurred
Ref: DRN42550432The sum assured  dropped from £250,000 to £98,000 unless they increased  the 
premium from £170 to £692 a month,  something  clearly unaffordable
The product  did not perform  as expected
Yes, he wanted to reduce their estates IHT liability but through a combination  of 
gifting and the benefits of this policy and his other life cover
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to explain that my role is to decide if there  is sufficient evidence  to safely say 
that the business clearly did something wrong.  In the absence of such  persuasive evidence,  
I cannot uphold  a complaint.
In this case, while I fully understand  Mr and Mrs Hs concerns, I dont  believe there is 
sufficient evidence to uphold their complaint.
Firstly, the evidence shows  that Mr H had significant investment experience  (if not expertise) 
and was familiar with the way whole of life policies worked. He had recently discovered that 
one of his policies had failed a review with a resultant very significant fall in the sum assured. 
This was set up on a maximum  cover  basis, unlike his other policy which  had not required 
premium rises,  so I think  he ought reasonably  have  realised  this was a possibility with the 
max cover policy they were now taking out. If in any doubt, he should at least  have raised 
this issue.
I also think the documentation did make clear the potential implications of a policy set up on 
a maximum cover basis. For example,  the policy document states: As the Plan is designed 
to provide the maximum level of cover, the encashment value is likely to be small and the 
above premium is unlikely to maintain the benefits throughout life. So I am satisfied 
Mr and Mrs H ought to have been in a reasonably  informed position to decide whether they 
wanted to take out this policy. 
I recognise that there is considerable  dispute as to whether Mr H stated that he intended to 
significantly reduce  his IHT liability in the future (and therefore  only needed guaranteed 
cover for 10 years). Having read all the submissions by both parties I dont think  the 
evidence is sufficiently clear for me to reach a conclusion about this issue. 
But it is clear that BJL was offering Mr and Mrs H extensive advice about their many  financial 
issues over a lengthy period of time, with very detailed recommendations about a range of 
issues from investments to trusts. So I think it is more  likely than not that they did make  this 
whole of life recommendation based on a broad understanding of their financial position and 
priorities. Ive seen  no evidence that it failed to consider their circumstances or objectives or 
that it was negligent in making this recommendation.
Overall, I am satisfied that this was a reasonable recommendation (although other  options  
might have been equally suitable).
Finally, Ive seen no evidence that they would have been better off keeping  their (second) 
existing policy. There is no reason to assume  the cost of cover would have been lower  on 
this maximum  cover  policy  going  forward than the replacement one with the higher sum 
assured. Under  a maximum cover policy the cost of the premiums  (after the first 10 years) is 
Ref: DRN42550433generally dictated by the actual cost of providing  insurance cover year on year,  which 
inevitably rises as we all get older. In fact, the figures from the time suggest the cost of cover  
was cheaper on the replacement  policy.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4255043