K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that the vehicle she acquired through a hire purchase agreement  financed 
by Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited was misrepresented. She wants to reject 
the vehicle and end the agreement.
background
Ms A tells us that when  shed  originally visited the Mercedes dealer shed been  looking to 
acquire a white metallic  colour model.  She says that she was advised  thered be a three  
week delay before such a vehicle  could  be supplied. As she required a vehicle urgently she 
says she agreed to accept a vehicle that the dealer said was available within a week.  She 
says the vehicle was described  as being  exactly the same as her original  choice - but in 
black metallic.  Ms A states that she agreed to accept this vehicle but stipulated  it must be 
black metallic  (not just black). She said this was the same colour as her previous written off 
vehicle. She said she also insisted the vehicle  must  have ambient lighting, as her previous 
vehicle had this facility and shed found  it helped driving at night. She says she was assured 
this would be the case. Ms A now states  that the vehicle wasnt delivered  until six weeks 
after she ordered it. And that its black  as opposed  to black  metallic.  She states it doesnt 
have the same level of ambient lighting that shed been promised. And she feels hes been 
misled.
MBFS told us that the vehicle was properly described as being black  metallic. And that it did 
have ambient lighting. It said that itd sent Ms A a copy of the factory  specification  document 
which confirmed the vehicle was equipped with these features.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He said the factory 
specification showed  the vehicle as being supplied with both black metallic  paint  and 
ambient lighting.  So he didnt think the vehicle had been misrepresented.
Ms A wasnt satisfied with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint 
an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Ms A isnt satisfied with her vehicle. And I can understand that its all the more  
disappointing if a new vehicle doesnt  fulfil expectations.
Ms As complaint also included aspects which might fairly be described  as customer service 
issues surrounding the manner in which the sales negotiations were  conducted.  And the 
delay in supplying  the vehicle. Im unable to deal with these matters as customer  service  is 
not a regulated activity. So my decision will relate only to the facts which  go directly to 
whether the vehicle supplied through the regulated finance agreement  was as described  or if 
it was misrepresented.
Ref: DRN48487452Ms As hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement  and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. I dont  apply  the law - directly  - but I do take it 
into account. And relevant law here includes The Consumer Rights  Act 2015 (CRA) and 
section 56 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA). In summary,  the CRA states that any 
goods sold by description must match that description. And section 56 of the CCA states that 
the supplier of finance (MBFS) is liable for a misrepresentation by the dealer/credit  broker  
during antecedent negotiations before the supply of goods.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a customer to enter an 
agreement and to suffer loss as a result  of that misrepresentation.
Im unable to know the precise detail of discussions which  took place between Ms A and the 
sales agent in the run up to the finance agreement. But Im happy to accept that Ms A 
required a vehicle which was painted black metallic and was supplied with ambient lighting. I 
also accept that these were aspects  of the description of the vehicle that were  material  to her 
selecting it. And that its probable she wouldnt have  purchased this vehicle if it didnt  have 
these features.
Where facts are in dispute or information is unclear or contradictory  - as some of it is here - I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I think its fair to say that the substance of Ms As complaint is that this new vehicle  doesnt  - 
in certain respects  - match aspects of a previous  vehicle shed driven.  And that she was led 
to believe that the physical  characteristics  of the later vehicle - in relation to the black  
metallic paint and the ambient lighting - would  be the same as her previous vehicle.
Ms A refers to what she describes as subtle differences between paint which  is black  and 
black metallic.  And shes supplied photographs of the vehicle along with the V5 registration 
document. This lists the vehicle  colour as Black.  She says the ambient lighting in this new 
vehicle is partial, subtle and very different to her previous  model.
When the differences between what is alleged to have been  agreed and that which has been  
supplied are relatively small (or subtle) its more difficult to establish  if a misrepresentation 
has occurred. Here  the information shows  the vehicle acquired by Ms A was supplied with 
black metallic  paint  and ambient  lighting. Whether  these  features are exactly the same  as 
her previous  vehicle Im unable to say. 
I can see that the factory specification of her current vehicle  lists the colour as being  
obsidian black metallic.  Ive looked online and can see that the E class model which  Ms A 
states shes previously driven was also supplied with obsidian black  metallic  paint. So whilst 
Ms As perception might  be different, the objective  information confirms the paint used on the 
new vehicle is the same description  as her earlier model. Its of course possible that during  
the manufacturing process one batch of paint  might show minor differences to another - 
even though they are of the same specification and description.
I dont think the V5 document assists me as Id expect it to only record  the basic  colour 
rather than any marginal  variations in shade  or finish.
Similarly the information with which Ive been  supplied shows the new vehicle does have  
ambient lighting.  MBFS has confirmed that all models in this range have this as standard.
Ref: DRN48487453In order to say thered  been a misrepresentation Id have  to find thered  been a false 
statement of fact. The information shows that the vehicle was supplied with both black  
metallic paint and ambient  lighting.  And those are the features that Ms A stipulated as being 
fundamental to her proceeding  with the agreement.
I might  add - that if what are acknowledged to be subtle or marginal differences  were  so 
important - I cant  see any reason  why it wouldnt have  been possible to arrange  a test drive  
before entering  the agreement.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment  to Ms A but it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable for me to say the vehicle  was not as described or that it had been 
misrepresented. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4848745