K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) didnt ensure all the necessary repairs  
were carried  out when he made a claim on his motor insurance  policy  after an accident.
background 
The front of Mr Ds car was damaged  in an accident  at a roundabout. After  it was repaired by 
one of UKIs approved repairers (garage N), Mr D noticed a noise that he said hadnt  been 
there before. He was also unhappy about some of the paintwork,  the alignment  of panels 
and scrubbing  on the tyres. The car went back to garage N and it agreed there were faults 
to be repaired.  That work was done,  but garage  N couldnt find the source of the noise. UKI 
agreed the car should go to a dealership  garage  (garage S) for a diagnosis. 
Garage S found traces of metal in the gearbox oil that it said meant the gearbox was 
damaged. UKI says it called garage  S, but it wouldnt give an opinion  about the cause of the 
damage in writing. UKI asked two of its own engineers for their opinion.  They  didnt think  the 
damage was accident-related. They said the accident damage was to the front of the car, but 
there was no visible  damage  to the area where the gearbox was located. So they thought  
the problem was due to mechanical wear and tear.  
After Mr D complained to us about  UKI rejecting his claim, garage  S told us that there were 
no known faults  with the type of gearbox  in Mr Ds car. It said Mr D hadnt had any problems  
prior to the accident. It said it thought the gearbox  damage was accident-related. Mr D then 
had the car assessed by garage  B. It thought  that as the car had been driven less than 
48,000 miles, the fault was unlikely to be due to wear and tear. Garage  Bs view was that the 
problem with the gearbox was the result  of the accident. 
Our investigator thought the fact that jig brackets  were used by garage  N during the repairs  
meant the car was heavily impacted in the accident.  Taking that - plus all the engineers 
reports into account - she thought the gearbox was probably damaged  in the accident. UKI 
said garage B specialised  in MOTs   so its engineers werent  experts in vehicle repairs. It 
didnt think the use of a jig by garage N during repairs  was significant. The investigator didnt 
change her view. She thought UKI should do more to put matters right.  
The investigator said UKI should repair  Mr Ds car (or write it off) and pay for the report he 
got from garage B. UKI had given Mr D a hire car and hed also had a courtesy car from 
garage N. But he was without a car for 24 days,  so the investigator said UKI should pay him 
for the loss of use of his vehicle for that period.  As Mr D had to pay to have his car taken 
from home to garage B for assessment, she thought  UKI should reimburse those costs. She 
said it should also pay Mr D for the loss he made  on selling a run-around  car hed bought, 
plus the insurance for it. And she said UKI should pay Mr D £100 compensation for distress  
and inconvenience.  
Mr D accepted the investigators view. UKI asked  for an ombudsmans  review of the case. I 
issued a provisional decision as follows:
From UKIs notes,  it seems garage  S - which specialises in the relevant make  of car - told 
UKI it wasnt able to confirm whether the gearbox  damage was accident-related or not. But 
garage S told us in writing that there  were no issues with the gearboxes on this model of car. 
It said in its opinion, the damage to the gearbox  occurred through  the accident. Garage Bs 
view was also that the fault was due to the accident, rather than to wear and tear.
Ref: DRN45754592UKI says garage B is only a local MOT garage and that its engineer  made an assumption 
about the cause of the damage, as the cars gearbox is sealed. I think the implication from 
UKIs comment is that garage  Bs engineer may not be suitably qualified to comment.  If 
thats what UKI meant,  I dont agree. From what Ive seen, garage B doesnt just carry out 
MOT work. It carries out services and repairs on all types of vehicle. Theres  nothing to 
suggest that its engineers arent  fully qualified and experienced. 
I think the fact that the gearbox  is sealed  means  that none of the engineers can be more 
specific than they have been  about  the likely cause of the damage.  I appreciate  that two of 
UKIs engineers dont  think the damage is accident-related. But two other engineers do, 
including one from a dealership garage. And it seems that neither  of the external engineers  
thought it was significant that there was no external damage near to the gearbox.
Mr D says the noise  from the gearbox  fault wasnt evident before the accident. I dont think 
theres any reason  to doubt that. In my opinion,  its unlikely hed have driven around prior to 
the accident in a relatively new car that was making what he describes as a grinding noise. 
I think that sort of noise  would have alarmed most consumers enough to have  it investigated. 
Mr D says thats just what he did when he first heard the noise. But he says that was after 
the repairs were done. Garage N thought the problem was only a wheel bearing  at that point, 
although it proved  to be a more serious fault. 
It seems  theres no known problem with the gearbox  on this model  of car. Its age and 
mileage seem to make  wear  and tear an unlikely cause of the damage. And the wear and 
tear would have  had to have an impact on the gearbox for the first time straight  after the 
accident. That sort of co-incidence doesnt seem likely. So I think  its more likely than not 
that the accident led to it. 
I think UKI should deal with the damage to Mr Ds car by repairing it  or by writing it off and 
paying Mr D the cars  pre-accident market value, plus interest. It should also pay for the 
independent report  he had done by garage  B, plus interest. In addition,  I think UKI should  
pay for Mr D being without a car for 24 days,  at the usual rate of £10 per day. 
I dont think Mr D has produced adequate  evidence  of the loss he made  on the sale of the 
run-around car, so I dont think UKI should have to pay for that. But he had to keep his 
damaged car insured,  even  though it wasnt drivable, in case  of potential  claims such as 
vandalism. So I think  UKI should pay him the cost of the extra insurance he had to pay on 
the run-around  car, plus interest.
Mr D sold the run-around car and replaced it with a new one in July 2018. As hes had to 
insure the new car whilst  also keeping  his damaged car insured, I think UKI should pay for 
the overlap of insurance on the new car, plus interest. 
Mr D has been inconvenienced since UKI declined  to deal with the gearbox fault, so I think  it 
would also be reasonable for it to pay him £100  compensation.         
I asked the parties  for their comments on my provisional findings. Mr D accepted  them. UKI 
said had garage  S given  it the same response it gave us, it would have dealt with the repairs  
accordingly. It said the dealership garage  was the highest authority in terms of specialism. It 
said the MOT  centre (garage B) focussed on general repairs, so its opinion shouldnt  be 
taken over that of the dealership. It said the damage hadnt been  categorically proven as 
accident-related and that its approved repairer had only worked  on the front of the car.
Ref: DRN45754593my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I accept that the approved repairer  only 
worked on the front of the car. But I dont  think that means there wasnt  damage  elsewhere 
that wasnt visible or identified at the time. I agree with UKI that garage S (the dealership 
garage) is best placed to comment on the likely cause of the damage to Mr Ds car. And in 
its opinion, the damage was accident-related. I think garage  Bs view supports that opinion. I 
dont think its possible to say categorically  that the damage was caused  by the accident, but 
in my opinion, the evidence  shows its far more likely than not that it was. I remain of the 
view that UKI should settle Mr Ds claim,  as set out in my provisional view. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance  Limited to do the 
following:
 
Repair the gearbox or pay Mr D the cars  pre-accident market  value, plus interest at 
the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of claim to the date of settlement
Pay Mr D £192 for garage Bs diagnostic report and its recovery  charge, plus interest 
at the simple yearly  rate of 8%, from the date of payment to the date of settlement 
Pay Mr D £240 for the loss of use of his car
Pay Mr D for the insurance  on the run-around car, from 14 April 2018 to 26 July 2018 
(minus the 12 days within that period  when  the car wasnt insured)
Add interest to the sum above at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date Mr D 
paid for the insurance to the date of settlement  
Pay Mr D for the insurance  on his new car from 27 July 2018 onwards
Add interest on the sum above at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date Mr D 
paid the insurance,  minus any refund  he may get, to the date of settlement
Pay Mr D £100 for distress and inconvenience
If UKI thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken  off. It should give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he may reclaim  the tax. Under the Financial Ombudsman  
Services rules, I must ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 16 May 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4575459