K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the end of contract  charges Ald Automotive Limited, trading as 
Hyundai Contract Hire, asked him to pay at the end of his car hire agreement.
background
In December 2015 Mr C took receipt  of a new car. He financed  the deal through a hire 
agreement with Hyundai Contract Hire. But when  he returned the car, on 8 January 2018, at 
the end of the term, he was disappointed to receive a bill for £572.29  for refurbishment that 
Hyundai Contract Hire said was necessary to return the vehicle to the required standard.
He said the industry  guidelines provided  by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) said that a summary  of charges; an explanation of how the charges 
had been calculated and photographic evidence to support  the charges; should  be provided 
within four weeks of the car being returned.  But here he said they didnt provide that 
evidence for seven weeks. So he said, as this was too late, Hyundai Contract Hire shouldnt 
be allowed to charge him and they should refund the legal costs hed incurred defending the 
issue.
But Hyundai  Contract  Hire disagreed with Mr C. They  said there was clear damage  to the 
front and rear bumper  when the car was returned and they explained this was outside  of 
what the industry guidelines, also provided  by the BVRLA, would suggest was acceptable 
fair wear and tear. They explained  that the terms and conditions of Mr Cs contract placed an 
obligation on him to return  the vehicle in a satisfactory  condition  but this hadnt been  the 
case and the charges  theyd asked him to pay were therefore reasonable. 
They said they had sent the invoice with the requisite breakdown of charges to Mr C, four 
days after the inspection  and explained that theyd sent photographic evidence  on 28 
February. But they didnt think  theyd done  anything wrong and didnt  feel they needed  to 
compensate Mr C for his legal expenses.
So Mr C referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided her opinion.  She 
accepted that the BVRLA advised businesses to send evidence, to support  the charges they 
were making, within four weeks and that Hyundai Contract Hire hadnt sent the full 
inspection report for seven weeks. But she said if that were the case  she needed to think  
about how that had affected  Mr C and what would have happened  if hed had the report  in 
time. She didnt think it would have changed anything.  The damage was clearly made out 
and the pictures  evidenced it was beyond fair wear and tear, so Mr C wouldve remained 
liable for the charges in line with the terms of his hire agreement with Hyundai Contract Hire. 
So the investigator didnt think it would be fair to ask the business to take any further action.
But Mr C disagreed and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C but I agree with the investigators opinion and for similar 
reasons. Please let me explain why.
Ref: DRN42158712Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The BVRLA guidance does suggest businesses provide evidence of the charges, including 
photographic evidence, within four weeks of the collection of the car. And Id expect  Hyundai  
Contract Hire to comply  with this guideline. 
Its clear they did provide  a breakdown of the charges and that the inspection  report  which 
included photographs of the damaged bumpers was signed and viewed by Mr Cs 
representative on the day of inspection. But they didnt provide  a copy of the inspection 
report for seven weeks and this I think its reasonable to suggest they should have.
But Im required to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I dont think  
the fact Mr C wasnt presented with the full report in time, changes  his liability for the 
charges Hyundai  Contract  Hire are making, because:
the terms of his hire agreement Mr C signed, say hell be responsible  for damage  
outside of fair wear  and tear. The guidelines for whats  acceptable  are provided by 
the BVRLA and Ive considered the damage  against  these  guidelines and think its 
clearly excessive and chargeable
the amount  being charged  appears  to be in line with other  similar charges Ive seen 
levied for similar  damage and therefore appears  reasonable
So for these reasons I dont think it would be fair to ask Hyundai Contract Hire to take any 
further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4215871