K821x#15complaint
Mr O is complaining that J & M Insurance Services (UK) Limited  (J&M) set up an incorrect 
payment schedule to pay the premium on his commercial vehicle insurance policy.  This 
meant that his policy was cancelled. 
background
In January 2018 Mr O took out a commercial vehicle insurance  policy  through  J&M  a 
broker. He took out the policy on the telephone. The policys  premium was to be paid under 
a finance agreement in a number of instalments. After he received the policy  documents, 
Mr O said that the payment schedule wasnt what was agreed  on the telephone. He says it 
was agreed that the first instalment would be taken  when the policy  started in January  and 
the next payments would be taken in March and April. But the paperwork said the second  
and third payments  would be taken in February  and March respectively.
Mr O then returned the paperwork to J&M and amended  the payment schedule  and also 
wrote in a letter asking J&M to change the payment schedule.  J&M didnt respond  to this, so 
Mr O emailed J&M on 30 January 2018 and asked again that the payment schedule  was 
changed. He said that he didnt want to cancel the policy, but he would do so it wasnt 
changed.
There was an attempt  to take the payment on 1 February 2018, but this failed. Mr O then 
paid this a few weeks later. An attempt was then made to take the third instalment on 
1 March 2018, but this failed. J&M wrote to Mr O and said that if the payment wasnt made,  
the policy would be cancelled. Mr O didnt make the payment so the policy  was cancelled on 
20 March 2018.
Mr O complained that he was out of pocket. He maintains that he was told the second 
payment wouldnt  be taken until March 2018.  He said he wouldnt have agreed to the 
payment be taken in February 2018 because  he wouldnt  have been able to afford that. He 
also says he asked  to cancel the policy in January  2018 but J&M didnt do so. He wants J&M 
to refund the money hes paid.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. He said J&M couldnt provide the call recording for 
when Mr O took out the policy. But he said that, based on Mr Os actions he thought it was 
most likely that the payment schedule Mr O said was agreed was the most likely schedule  
rather than the one on the policy documents.  He said that this has meant  that Mr O wasnt  
able to make  the repayments which resulted in the policy being cancelled.  He didnt think  the 
policy would have been cancelled had the agreed payment schedule been  put in place. 
Given this, he said J&M should do the following to put things  right:
refund  Mr Os premium to him on a strict pro rata basis, plus interest at the rate of 8% 
simple interest per year;
pay Mr O the sum of £300  representing  the inconvenience  caused to him.
J&M didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide. 
Ref: DRN41220672my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for the same reasons  as the adjudicator and Ill now 
explain why.
Mr O says that he agreed a payment schedule on the telephone which  was different to what 
was on his finance agreement. Unfortunately  the call recording for when the policy was 
taken out isnt available. So I have to base my decision on what  I think  was most likely to 
happen. 
J&M says that there isnt anything to show that what Mr O says was discussed is accurate. 
But I think hes been consistent throughout. And I think the way Mr O has corresponded  with 
J&M suggests that its most likely  he was told this on the phone. And I havent seen enough 
to say that he wasnt told the second and third payments would be taken in March and April 
respectively. And I think, had J&M given him the correct  information, he would have 
explained that he couldnt have afforded it. I think he wouldnt have taken  out the policy  
under these terms had it been explained to him correctly, which  I also think further supports 
he was given incorrect information about the payment schedule. But I think this also shows 
that hes lost out as a result of this. 
I think Mr O has had a policy unfairly cancelled as a result of whats  happened. So I think he 
should only have  to pay a pro-rata  amount of premium based  on the time hes been insured. 
I note Mr O says that he asked to cancel  the policy in January 2018 so he thinks  the 
premium refund should be from then. But I dont agree he did. He said that he was intending 
to cancel it if the payment schedule didnt change, but I havent seen anything to show that 
he actually asked to cancel it. But even if he did, he had the benefit of being insured during 
that time,  so its right that he pays for the full time he was insured.
Mr O has also said that he couldnt  afford  to take out insurance for a couple of months  after 
the policy was cancelled and wants J&M to compensate  him for his lost earnings during that 
time. But he had a responsibility  to mitigate his own losses. And I havent seen enough to 
show that he did do so. So I dont think it would be fair to require J&M to compensate him for 
this. But its clear that this has caused Mr O a lot of distress and inconvenience. The 
adjudicator thought that J&M should pay Mr O £300  for this and I think  thats  fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require J & M Insurance  Services (UK) Limited  to pay the following to put things right:
1.refund  Mr Os premium to him on a pro rata basis based on the time he was insured  from 
inception until it was cancelled;
2.pay 8% simple interest per year on the refund from the date of cancellation until he gets 
it back. HM Revenue and Customs  requires J&M to deduct  tax from this payment. But it 
should give Mr O a certificate showing how much its taken off if he asks for one;
3.pay Mr O the sum of £300  for the distress and inconvenience this matter  has caused  
him;
4.Provide Mr O with a letter that confirms he doesnt have to disclose the policys 
cancellation to future  insurers.
Ref: DRN41220673Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4122067