K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that Al Rayan Bank PLC delayed  transferring his funds to a new account.
To settle  matters hed like £150  compensation.
background 
Mr R gave notice to close an account he had with Al Rayan Bank. He arranged for his funds 
to be transferred to a different  provider who Ill call Bank 1 on 20 February 2019. Mr R 
became concerned when the funds  didnt arrive into his chosen account  the next day. So he 
rang Al Rayan Bank to find out what had happened.
He says the agent hung up on him. So he called  again and was told his transfer  had 
bounced back due to the recipient bank only accepting funds from a linked UK bank. He 
says he was told his funds were sitting in Al Rayan Banks holding account  and had earned  
£15 interest. He was also told he should have been  read a faster payment disclaimer  to 
explain that transfers may be subject to delays.
Mr R then gave new instructions for his money  to be transferred to a different bank  who Ill 
call Bank  2. He says he was told his transfer  would be done before close of business on 
21 February 2019. But the funds  didnt reach his account until the next day because  
Al Rayan  Bank only released the funds  after its internal cut-off  time.
Al Rayan  Bank agreed it hadnt  completed  his transfer in time. It apologised and to put 
matters rights it offered  £10.00 compensation of which £5.79  was for the profit that Mr R 
wouldve earned had the funds remained in his Al Rayan Bank  account.
Mr R says the delay  caused him stress  and worry and he lost out on interest. He also 
complains about  poor customer  service  because he had to make three calls to
Al Rayan Bank to transfer money between  his own accounts. And he also had to make  
several calls and online checks  via online banking to see if his recipient bank had received 
the funds. So hed like £150 compensation.
When our investigator looked  into Mr Rs complaint he concluded that the delays were  due 
to the recipient bank only accepting funds from a nominated linked UK bank account. So he 
didnt think it fair to ask Al Rayan Bank to pay the interest that Mr R wouldve earned had the 
transfer taken place on time. He could see Al Rayan Bank had paid £5.79 for the profit 
Mr R would have earned had his funds remained in his Al Rayan Bank account. The 
investigator thought  this was fair in the circumstances.
The investigator thought the service Mr R received should have been  better. He thought 
Mr R was given incorrect timescales and these caused him unnecessary trouble chasing the 
funds. And he was told his funds  attracted  £15.00 in profit whilst sitting  in Al Rayans Banks 
withholding account which wasnt the case.  Therefore to put things  right the investigator 
recommended that Al Rayan Bank should  pay an additional sum of £50.00  for the trouble  
and upset caused to Mr R.
Mr R doesnt agree with the investigators  view.  In summary his main points  and the 
investigators response is set out below:-
Ref: DRN47698562 he says he should have been read a faster payments disclaimer by Al Rayan  Bank 
to warn him of delays.  The investigator said the faster payments disclaimer wasnt 
appropriate as it was only required where transfers were  made by faster payment.  
And in Mr Rs case the transfer  wasnt a faster payment but a CHAPS  transfer.
 Mr R says hed been cut off when phoning  Al Rayan  Bank   the investigator  
explained that the call did drop. But Al Rayan Bank had confirmed to this service  that 
the agent didnt hang up on Mr R. The investigator  realised  Mr R didnt get a call 
back and this resulted  in Mr R calling back himself but he thought  the compensation 
hed recommended took into account the service issues  Mr R had experienced.
 he says he was promised his funds would be sent on the same  day. So he says he 
should be paid for the loss of interest he wouldve received  had his funds been 
transferred to his new account rather than at Al Rayan Banks interest rate. The 
investigator noted that had his funds been  transferred to the new account  as hed 
wanted his daily loss of interest  was £7.33. But as Al Rayan Bank had agreed to pay 
£10 compensation  already, this was more than the interest  hed lost.
Mr R disagrees   and says he should  receive two days interest. So hes asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regard to the transfer of funds to Bank 1 Im satisfied that the delay  was due to the 
recipient bank only accepting funds from a nominated linked UK bank account  and not 
because of any mistake by Al-Rayan Bank. So it wouldnt be fair to ask Al Rayan Bank  to 
pay to Mr R the interest he wouldve earned  had his first transfer been completed on time.
When Mr Rs transfer of funds to Bank 1 bounced  Mr R then gave Al Rayan Bank new 
instructions to transfer his funds to Bank 2. Its not in dispute that he was told his funds 
would be sent by close of business  on 21 February  2019. So when his funds didnt arrive 
until the next day Al Rayan Bank  accepts  it made  an error.  Its already agreed to pay £10 of 
which £5.79 was for interest on the funds  Mr R would have received had his funds remained 
with Al Rayan Bank.
Im of the opinion that Mr R should be compensated for the interest he wouldve earned had 
his funds been transferred to Bank 2 on the same  day. The investigator calculated  Mr Rs 
daily loss of interest at £7.33. But I can see that Al Rayan Bank has already agreed to pay 
£10 compensation  so this is already more than the interest he would have earned had his 
funds been transferred to his chosen account  as hed wanted.
Taking into account all the circumstances I consider  the compensatory award 
recommended by the investigator of £50 in addition to the £10 already agreed by 
Al Rayan  Bank is sufficient to compensate Mr R for his loss of interest  due to the second 
transfer not taking  place  on the same day and is also sufficient to take into account  the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him as a result of the service issues  he experienced.
Ref: DRN47698563my final decision
My final decision is that I am partly  upholding this complaint and I direct Al Rayan Bank PLC 
to:-
pay to Mr R £10 compensation as it originally agreed  if it hasnt  already  done so; 
and 
pay a further compensatory payment of £50 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr R 
as a result of its poor service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4769856