K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that MBNA Limited  mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  
on a credit card.
background
In 2001, Mr K took out a credit card with MBNA. In the following month  he was sold a PPI 
policy over the telephone.  The policy protected Mr Ks card repayments  if he wasnt able to 
work. 
Following a successful  claim on the policy, it would have paid 3% of his credit card balance  a 
month. In the case of a claim for an accident or sickness, these payments could  have 
continued until Mr K was able to return  to work.  And in the case  of involuntary  
unemployment, they could have continued for up to twelve months.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Ks complaint  should  be upheld.  MBNA  disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks case. Having  
done so, Im upholding it for reasons that Ill now explain.
I dont think that MBNA recommended the PPI policy to Mr K. This means it didnt  need  to 
ensure that the policy was suitable  for him. But it still needed  to give Mr K enough 
information about the policy for him to decide if it met his needs  and he wanted to take it out. 
From what  Ive seen, I dont think it did.
MBNA has provided a copy of the Certificate  of Insurance that it says Mr K would have 
received after hed agreed to take PPI. And I can see that in section 6 of this document, 
headed When Does  Insurance and Benefit End, its stated  that all benefit  payments will 
end at the age of 65. 
I think this policy condition  would  have been of importance  to Mr K. I say this because, when 
the policy was sold to him, Mr K had less than two years before he reached the state 
retirement age of 65. This meant that, if hed needed to claim for an accident or period  of 
sickness that lasted  until after that age, he wouldnt have received the full benefits  that would 
otherwise have been payable by his policy. And he would have only been  able to receive the 
maximum benefit for unemployment under  the policy - of twelve  monthly payments - until he 
reached the age of 64. This would have been less than a year from when he was sold the 
policy. 
From what  Ive seen, I dont think that MBNA  made this important policy  condition  clear 
enough to Mr K. Its not given any particular prominence in the Certificate  of Insurance. And, 
in any event, he wouldnt have received  this certificate until some days after hed already 
agreed to take the PPI. Ive also looked  at the script  which  MBNA  says would have been 
Ref: DRN47127952used at the time for such telephone sales. But I dont think this makes it clear that benefits 
under the policy  will only be paid until the age of 65 is reached. 
So having  thought carefully about  Mr Ks circumstances at the time of this sale, I dont think 
he would  still have  wanted to take out the policy if hed known  that the benefits he might 
receive from it could be restricted in this way because of his age. I think  its most likely  that 
he would  have thought the policy wasnt really suitable for him and declined to take it.
Ive thought carefully about what MBNA has said about the fact that Mr K was eligible for the 
policy and would still have  been  able to obtain benefits from the policy for twenty  one months 
from the date it was sold to him. But this hasnt changed my mind  about upholding Mr Ks 
complaint.
putting things right
MBNA should put Mr K in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.MBNA should find out how much  Mr K would have owed when he closed his credit  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
MBNA should then refund  the difference between what Mr K owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr K made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, MBNA  can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.MBNA should add simple interest on the difference  between what  Mr K would have 
owed when he closed his account  from when  he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  MBNA works out what Mr K would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mr K 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, MBNA should  also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr K paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when  Mr K 
wouldve owed MBNA  something on his credit card. The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.MBNA should tell Mr K what  its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give 
Mr K a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN47127953my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im upholding this complaint against  MBNA Limited.
MBNA Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4712795