K821x#15complaint
Miss A says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy in 2001  alongside a credit  card. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant  issues to take into account  are the same as those set out in the note on 
our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
Ive decided to uphold Miss As complaint and Ill explain why.
Barclays advised Miss A to take out the policy so it had to take reasonable steps to ensure 
the policy was right for her. This meant taking into consideration her circumstances at the 
time and whether she would be affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations  on the policy.  
Miss A says she suffered from a pre-existing medical condition at the time  and Ive seen 
evidence that she had this condition before the PPI was sold to her. I think  this is important 
because based  on what Ive seen of the available terms and conditions  from the time, Miss A 
wouldnt have been able to claim for any condition she wouldve known about prior to the 
sale or had sought  medical advice for 12 months before the start date of the cover.   And 
from what Miss A has told us, she did know about  this condition before  the PPI was sold and 
had seen a doctor within  12 months  prior to the sale.  
Even though  Miss A has told us that she had medication which often  kept this condition 
under control, she had taken off time from work  in the past as a result  of her condition.  So I 
think its likely she may have  had to take time off going forward  if her symptoms were  
particularly bad. So I dont  think the policy was suitable for her and I dont think  Barclays  
shouldve advised  Miss A to take out the PPI. 
So, for the reasons mentioned above,  I uphold Miss As complaint.
putting things right
Barclays should put Miss A in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI.
A.Barclays should  find out how much Miss A would have owed when she closed  her credit 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Miss A owed when she closed 
her account  and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
Ref: DRN49547512If Miss A made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Barclays can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.Barclays should  add simple interest  on the difference between what  Miss A would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Barclays works out what Miss A would  have owed  each month without PPI  
Miss A paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, Barclays should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Miss A paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Miss A wouldve owed Barclays something on her credit  card.  The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
D.Barclays should  tell Miss A what its done  to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Miss A that relates  to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by Barclays from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Barclays  to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Miss A a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Miss As complaint. So Barclays Bank  UK Plc 
should pay Miss A compensation in line with the instructions set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4954751