K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled  his building  insurance claim.  
He says the amount of compensation it has offered doesnt fairly reflect  the trouble and 
upset hes experienced. 
background
Mr B is being represented by his grandson. 
UKI provides insurance to the housing association which Mr B leases his flat from. In              
mid-July 2017, Mr B made a claim on his buildings insurance policy  for damage due to an 
escape of water. The following week, a loss assessor instructed by UKI visited his home to 
assess the claim. A few days later it was confirmed that asbestos was present  in the kitchen 
and that it needed to be removed before repair  works could begin. The removal  was booked 
for the end of August  2017. 
The asbestos was removed on 25 September 2017. In October 2017, asbestos was also 
found in Mr Bs bathroom and it had to be removed  before repair works could continue. It 
was removed at the end of November 2017. Mr Bs property was certified dry at the end of 
December, and the works were completed  at the end of February  2018,  which  is when Mr B 
was able to move back home. There were some remedial issues  after this, including  having 
the flat cleaned due to the risk of dust affecting  Mr Bs breathing. 
Mr B is unhappy with how UKI handled  his claim because he feels  it caused avoidable 
delays. He said contractors were unable to carry out the necessary works  and that UKIs 
communication with him was poor. This added to what was a very stressful time for him. 
Hes upset that a job which  he says couldve been  completed in three months,  has cost him 
six months of his life and has had huge  repercussions on his mental  and physical health.          
Mr B is looking for compensation of £20,000.
UKI has offered  Mr B £750 compensation to reflect the difficulties hes experienced. UKI has 
accepted there were  avoidable delays and that communication  couldve been  better. But       
Mr B doesnt  think the compensation  fairly reflects the impact the situation has had on him. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought  UKIs  offer was fair. He agreed the 
claim couldve been progressed quicker  at times, and that Mr B should  be compensated for 
the avoidable delays. But he was satisfied UKI had acted appropriately  upon  later 
discovering the asbestos in Mr Bs bathroom.  He thought UKI had taken into account Mr Bs 
health when handling his claim  and was satisfied itd reflected the upset hed experienced in 
its compensation. So he didnt ask UKI to do anymore.
Mr B accepted that UKI had followed  procedure  in respect of the asbestos but he believes 
the time he spent in the hotel was due to the inefficiency of its contractors. He feels his claim 
shouldve been  made a priority due to his and his wifes ill health.
Ref: DRN46376412my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (ICOBS) says an insurer must handle 
claims promptly and fairly.  Whats prompt will depend on the circumstances and so there 
isnt a defined  period  of time.  But where theres  a lot of damage and remedial works, things 
will obviously take longer.  
UKI has accepted  there were delays with how Mr Bs claim was handled and its apologised 
for not keeping him as informed as it shouldve. It took longer than it shouldve  to have the 
asbestos removed,  and I can see that by mid-December the source  of the leak still hadnt 
been identified.  From what Ive seen,  Im satisfied the repairs took approximately three 
months longer  than they ought  to. 
Im not satisfied that UKI handled Mr Bs claim promptly and fairly,  and as it negatively 
impacted Mr B, I think  compensation  is a reasonable way for UKI to recognise this.  UKI  has 
offered £750 to recognise the difficulties Mr B experienced, and so I need to decide if this is 
fair.
The nature of the leak and the extent  of the damage meant Mr B had to move out of his 
property for a period of six months.  Without  anything  going wrong, the claim in itself would 
cause distress and inconvenience  that UKI isnt contractually, or fairly  responsible  for.  But 
Mr B is in his 80s, and he has health  problems and restricted mobility, so any time away 
from his home was going to have a greater  impact on him. 
But when deciding  whether the compensation offered by UKI is fair, I have to keep in mind 
that Mr B wouldve been out of his home for three  months even  if the repairs had happened 
as quickly as they ought to. So I cant hold UKI responsible for inconvenience Mr B has 
incurred during this time, which is unfortunately an inevitable consequence of claims such as 
this.
So what  Im concerned with is the three  months of avoidable delays and the impact this had 
on Mr B. During this time,  Mr B had to live away from home and so was not only further 
away from his wife, but without the familiarity  of his home comforts,  particularly  important in 
my view given  his age and health.  The impact  of the increased travelling time,  the absence  
of the security hed have  being at home, living out of a suitcase,  and not being able to bring  
his wife home for short breaks, understandably made this a very difficult and distressing time 
for him. Because  of this, Mr Bs representative has said Mr Bs doctor attributes deterioration 
to his physical  and mental health   so much so he requires medication  for depression.  
Ive considered the GPs letter carefully. I note that its dated April 2018 and states Mr B is 
currently staying in a hotel.. But its apparent that at the time of this letter  hed already 
been home for several  weeks.  It also says that Mr B has been staying in a hotel since July.  
But Mr B didnt move out of his home  until around  the end of August,  and when he did, he 
moved into his wifes care home.  So it doesnt  accurately substantiate  what  Mr B and his 
representative has told me. In addition, Mr Bs GP explains  that Mr B had numerous existing 
health conditions   so Im not persuaded that I can attribute Mr Bs decline in health  to the 
avoidable delays.
Ref: DRN46376413Mr B has suggested that his wife may not have been  made  a permanent resident had the 
repairs been completed sooner. From what Ive seen his wife became  a permanent resident 
prior to the leak happening. And as Mrs B wouldnt have been able to stay at home during 
the first three months of the claim, as the house  wasnt habitable, I dont think  its fair to hold 
UKI responsible for Mrs B not being able to return home on a permanent  basis.  But I do think  
the delays meant Mr B wasnt  able to have his wife home for short stays, like hes able to do 
now their home is habitable,  and this was distressing for him.
In deciding whether  the compensation is fair, Ive kept in mind  other  costs  that UKI has 
covered, and the actions its taken to lessen  the impact on Mr B. I can see it has paid petrol 
expenses to cover the additional distance Mr B had to travel to his wifes care home. And it 
paid £15 per day while  Mr B was living in the hotel towards the cost of meals. It also paid for 
a key lock which was fitted to Mr Bs property to save him having to be there to allow 
contractors in, and for electricity used while the repairs  were  carried out. UKI were aware of 
both Mr and Mrs Bs health concerns early on in the claim. Im satisfied  it tried to lessen the 
impact on Mr B by arranging for him to stay at his preferred  hotel and in a room for those 
with disabilities. It also appointed a loss assessor  early on to help manage the claim. 
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied the amount of compensation offered by UKI is 
fair. I know Mr B doesnt feel this reflects what hes been through, but the compensation he 
was hoping for is far higher  than what Id recommend in the specific  circumstances of this 
case. Mr Bs representative  has mentioned punishing UKI, but were not the regulator; weve 
no power to fine or punish businesses and our awards arent punitive. Theres  no amount of 
money that can change  what happened to Mr B, but for the reason Ive explained above I 
think £750 is fair. And so I wont be asking UKI to increase it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Nicola Beakhust
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4637641