K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that he reported an incident  to Liverpool Victoria  Insurance  Company 
Limited (LV) but didnt intend to make a claim. Mr W is also unhappy that LV didnt give him 
the option to retain his car. 
background
In December 2018 Mr W was involved in an incident  and he reported it to his insurer, LV. An 
engineer assessed Mr Ws car and said it wasnt economical to repair. LV settled Mr Ws 
claim by paying him a total loss settlement. 
In February 2019  Mr W complained to LV. He said he didnt make  a claim. He was unhappy 
that LV didnt  give him the option to retain  his car. 
LV said as Mr W didnt mention that he had interest  in keeping his car, it didnt offer the 
option for him to keep it and this was its standard approach. An agent at LV had called Mr W 
to discuss his complaint  and wrongly told him that LV should have offered him the option to 
retain the car. This call had ended  but the agent  didnt call Mr W back.  
LV apologised for the misinformation  it had given Mr W in the call - and for failing to call him 
back. It said it would pay Mr W a total of £100  for the inconvenience its errors in handling 
this call had caused  him. By this time, Mr W had added a replacement  car to his policy.  LV 
said it would  refund the £15 administration charge it made for the change  of vehicle. 
Mr W remained unhappy, so he asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our investigator thought LV had acted reasonably. Mr W didnt agree. So he wants  an 
ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
UKI provided  the recordings of the first call Mr W made when he reported the incident  and 
of the calls where he discussed the market value LV gave for his car. I think it was clear that 
Mr W intended to claim  under his policy. And I dont think he expressed an interest  in 
keeping his car. The agent let Mr W know in the initial call that due to the age of his car, it 
might be uneconomical  to repair it and may be declared a write off. Mr W asked about the 
settlement he would receive if this were the case.  
UKI paid Mr W the total loss settlement for his car. It told him that he could drive his car for a 
further 60 days and it would continue to insure it. But after that, it would arrange for a 
salvage agent to collect the car and it would no longer be insured. 
In February 2019  Mr W complained to LV. He said he didnt make  a claim. He said in his 
opinion he had many  more years of driving his car. Mr W was unhappy that he felt he had no 
choice but to buy a replacement  car and was put to hassle by having to sort it out. Mr W said 
he felt a lack of confidence in the safety  of his car. Mr W said the incident wasnt his fault but 
hed been left out of pocket by it. 
Ref: DRN41211222Mr Ws policy says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value for his car 
at the time of loss. 
UKI defines the market value as; 
the cost of replacing your car with one of the same  make, model and specification, 
taking into account  the age, mileage  and condition of your car. To determine  the 
market value, well usually  ask an engineer  for advice and refer to motor trade guides 
and other  relevant sources. Well consider the amount you could reasonably  have 
obtained for your car if you sold it immediately before  the accident, loss or theft and 
not the price you paid for it.
We dont decide  a market value. But we look at whether an insurer  has reached it valuation  
reasonably and in line with the policy. UKI has provided the engineers  detailed  report.  The 
estimated costs to repair Mr Ws car came  to more than the market  value for it. He said the 
car was roadworthy and therefore driveable. The engineer  gave a valuation of £1,380. This 
was based on one of the main motor trade guides. We find the guides are a reliable way to 
decide a valuation as they are based on likely selling prices  for a particular make and model. 
I can see that the valuation was more  due to the mileage of Mr Ws car being  below  average  
for its age. 
We checked the four main motor trade  guides and found UKIs  valuation was within the 
range of reasonable. So I dont think UKI needs to increase this sum.
I understand that Mr W feels he had no option  but to buy a replacement car  this happened 
to be more expensive  than his written off car. But I think UKI settled Mr Ws claim 
reasonably. The price of the replacement car Mr W bought was his choice. I think  UKI gave 
Mr W a reasonable period  of time to buy a replacement car for his insurance to continue. If 
Mr W decided  to buy a car after the 60 days,  I dont think the options UK gave him prevented 
him from buying another insurance policy at a later date.  
Its reasonable to expect  a degree of inconvenience  when dealing  with a claim. Fortunately 
these things dont  happen every day. But there  are times when things go wrong.  In this case, 
I think UKI caused Mr W some additional  distress  and inconvenience. 
When UKI called  Mr W to discuss  his complaint, an agent told him that LV should have given 
Mr W the option to retain his car even if he hadnt  shown an interest in doing so. The agent 
went to get some advice  and put Mr W on hold  but the call ended. Nobody at LV called 
Mr W back. 
For the incorrect information and failing to call Mr W back, UKI said it would pay Mr W £100 
compensation. And it agreed to refund  the £15 administration charge it made when Mr W 
changed his car under  his policy. 
However, Mr W told us that he didnt receive  this payment  even though UKI told him on 14 
February 2019 that it would be in his account in seven days. 
We checked with UKI. It said it didnt  make the payment after all. So we asked it to consider  
increasing the award because of the delay. UKI agreed  to pay Mr W an additional £15  and 
it said its arranged for the payment total of £130  to be in Mr Ws account in the next seven 
Ref: DRN41211223days. I think this is a reasonable outcome as Mr W should have received the £115 by 21 
February 2019. 
Taking everything into account,  I think UKI has done enough to put things right and resolve 
Mr Ws complaint.  I appreciate that Mr W will be disappointed. But this means I dont think 
UKI needs to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4121122