K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Concept  Car Credit  Ltd (CCC) mis-sold her payment protection insurance 
(PPI) alongside finance for a car.
background
In 2005 Mrs S bought a car on finance  from CCC. At the same  time she also took out PPI - a life 
cover only cover (Bronze cover)  designed to repay the outstanding balance of her finance 
agreement in the event of her death.
The policy was of the single premium type,  so its cost was added to the loan amount at the start 
consequently attracting  interest. The cost - including interest charged over the full term - was 
around £1,000.
At the time Mrs S was in her early twenties,  living at home and she was single.
The adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld  because he thought  the 
recommendation for PPI was unsuitable  for Mrs S in light of her circumstances.
CCC disagreed  and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued my provisional decision in December 2018.  In summary I concluded that CCC advised 
Mrs S when it sold her PPI, so it needed to ensure - as far as reasonably possible - that it was 
suitable for her. Because CCC recommended a PPI policy  which only provided  her with life 
cover, in light of her circumstances at the time,  I didnt think  the recommendation was suitable. 
While I accepted that it was possible the recommendation  was made to cater for Mrs S future  
changing circumstances, I found no evidence to persuade me that CCC explored this and made 
the recommendation on this basis.
Because I didnt think there was sufficient evidence  to persuade  me that Mrs S would still have 
gone ahead  with the policy despite  it being unsuitable, I provisionally decided that shed lost out 
as a result  and should be compensated  for her loss.
In response to my provisional decision Mrs S provided evidence  to show that she was still paying 
for her loan  it is still active   which was contrary to my initial understanding from the information 
provided. Because this new information affected how Mrs S should  be compensated, I wrote to 
both parties to explain this setting  out a revised methodology for calculating  Mrs S loss. But I 
said my overall conclusion to uphold the complaint hadnt changed. 
Mrs S didnt respond again. And CCC hasnt replied.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Other than Mrs S initial response to my provisional  decision, which  Ive set out above, neither 
party has responded since or provided me with any further information to consider.  Im mindful 
that CCC hasnt  responded  to my provisional decision. But Ive no reason to doubt that it 
received my provisional  decision. And the date for responses was made  clear.  So I think  its 
Ref: DRN48861082reasonable to assume that, if CCC had wanted to respond it would  have done  so by now.  I 
therefore think it is safe to go ahead and issue my final decision.
So having  re-considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I see no reason to 
depart from my reasoning and conclusions I set out in my provisional decision.
Ive therefore  decided to uphold this complaint  and award Mrs S compensation.
putting things right
Mrs S borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger  than it shouldve  been and she 
paid more than she shouldve each month.  So CCC should:
Pay Mrs S the amount  she needs to pay her lender so she can reduce the
amount she owes on the loan to what it would be without PPI.
Work  out and pay Mrs S the difference between what she paid each month
on the loan and what she would have paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs S paid each month from when
she paid it until she gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year
Show Mrs S how it worked  this out and the amount she still owes 1
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Concept  Car Credit Ltd to take off tax from this interest.
Concept Car Credit  Ltd must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, Ive decided  that Mrs S has lost out as 
a result of taking out PPI and I make  an award  in her favour. As such  I direct Concept Car Credit  Ltd 
to put things right using  the formula Ive set out above. I make  no 
other award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 March 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
1 Concept Car Credit Ltd may need to liaise with Mrs S and/or her lender where appropriate to assist with 
its calculations
Ref: DRN4886108