K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs N have complained about their home  insurer U K Insurance  Limited (UKI). It 
declined a claim they made for a property they used to own and live in. UKI said no insured 
peril had occurred  despite Mr and Mrs N having shown it photos of water  in their basement.
background
In early December 2018 Mr N called UKI as theyd found water in their basement.  Their 
neighbour had been  doing some  work  and a party wall agreement had been put in place.
Mr and Mrs N thought  the neighbour might have  caused the flood somehow but when 
theyd spoken  to their party wall surveyor this was refuted.
UKI investigated the claim. It sent loss adjusters to the property on more than one occasion. 
The water authority also carried out some leak detection work. The cause of the body of 
water wasnt  established.  UKIs loss adjuster  during one visit to the property advised
Mr and Mrs N that the claim would be settled under their accidental  damage cover.  When 
UKI reviewed matters though it decided the claim should be declined. It wrote  to 
Mr and Mrs N and said it hadnt been shown that an insured event had occurred. It offered 
them £75 compensation regarding some  poor communication and £200 for the upset 
caused by what  it viewed as its loss adjusters error.
Later, during our investigation, UKI told us that as the neighbours works had been 
implicated and, as there was a party wall agreement, Mr and Mrs N should pursue action in 
this respect first; its policy  wouldnt respond  whilst  that was outstanding. It also said the 
neighbour had been  renovating,  and damage caused by renovations is excluded under  the 
policy.
Our investigator sent photos of the water in the basement to UKI. She said it should accept 
the claim as either being a flood (which  the photos  evidenced had occurred) or accidental  
damage. She said the loss adjusters assessment of loss as per his report  should  be used 
to make settlement.
Whilst it isnt clear  if Mr and Mrs N had seen the assessment  of loss, they said they 
accepted the investigators findings. They also said theyd now moved home  due to issues 
with the neighbour with whom theyd  had the party wall agreement. They  explained how 
theyd dealt with the issue themselves by removing all the damaged  contents  and sorting 
out the basement. They said they hadnt been  able to afford  a professional  to do the work.
UKI said it didnt agree  with our investigators  findings. It remained adamant  that the party  
wall agreement/insurance  should  be pursued in the first instance. Despite our investigator  
clarifying that she felt that the photos alone  evidenced that a flood had occurred, UKI 
wouldnt agree  to her findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision. I felt there  had been a flood and UKI should  settle  the claim. 
I explained how I felt it should do that. UKI responded,  seeking  to defend the action it had 
taken, but ultimately  agreeing to what Id said. Mr and Mrs N agreed but asked that I waive 
the policy excess by way of awarding further compensation. Ive considered whats  been  
said and set out my findings below, which are largely those issued provisionally.
Ref: DRN44429132my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
There was a body  of water in Mr and Mrs Ns basement. It doesnt much matter  how or why 
that occurred. That was a flood. The policy covers  damage caused  by flood.
I accept it does matter how it occurred if UKI wants to seek  recovery  of any outlay. But that 
is a matter for it to deal with and shouldnt prevent the claim from being accepted.
The policy wont respond if other insurance is in place that would answer  the damage. 
However, it isnt clear whether the party  wall agreement would respond to contents 
damage. And even if it did it would, I imagine, necessitate Mr and Mrs N showing that the 
flood had been caused by works  carried out not in line with the party  wall agreement.  That 
may be the case.  But it is far from clear.  In the meantime there was clearly  a flood and Mr 
and Mrs Ns home insurance policy with UKI gave them cover for that. They had a 
reasonable expectation that theyd be covered in that respect.
Im not persuaded the exclusion  for damage  caused by renovations can fairly  be relied 
upon as a bar to the claim. For one thing, UKI says the cause of the flood is unknown/hasnt 
been established. But it cant say that on the one hand whilst also seeking,  on the other,  to 
rely on an exclusion for damage  caused in a certain  way to defeat the claim. It also didnt 
rely on this earlier. And the exclusion is surely in place to protect UKI from damage caused 
by its policyholder not taking reasonable care when undertaking renovations  (whether by 
themselves or by use of a contractor)   not renovations the policyholder was not party  to or 
had no control over.
So I have  no doubt that UKI needs  to settle  this claim. The only question  is how to fairly  
require it to do that, particularly as Mr and Mrs N have now moved house, and even prior to 
that they had disposed  (not unreasonably) of a lot of the water  damaged  belongings.  So 
they are no longer available for further assessment or valuation.  But Mr and Mrs N also said 
they sorted the basement  themselves  suggesting they had no contractors cost for drying 
or clearing or reinstating it.
When the loss adjuster  visited previously he drew up a list of anticipated costs for the claim. 
It was quite a basic  list and likely was based on only a cursory  assessment of the basement  
and goods. I doubt any proper assessment of value had occurred at this stage. 
Nevertheless that is now the best evidence we have of the cost of the loss.
As far as the contents were concerned the adjuster estimated:
£2,000 for tools
£500 for Christmas decorations
£1,000 for units
£500 for pictures and frames
I think UKI should settle the contents  claim based on these values. It should pay
Mr and Mrs N £4,000  less a policy excess. As the claim could either  be flood or accidental 
damage, UKI should  apply the least costly of the two excesses. To the remainder UKI 
should add interest* from 17 January 2019, which is seven days after the adjuster 
recommended UKI settle the claim. Fairly I think Mr and Mrs N should reasonably have had 
Ref: DRN44429133the benefit of this settlement at that time.
In regard to the building damage in the basement the adjuster estimated it would cost in the 
region of £1,000 for drying. However,  that was the cost based on a drying contractor being 
used. I dont doubt Mr and Mrs N had some costs  and inconvenience for sorting the 
basement. Ill allow £500 for that, but that is subject to an excess. My comments regarding  
contents excess apply  equally  here.  Im not going to make UKI add interest to this sum.  It is 
a compensatory  amount  and not based  on any exact financial  outlay  or loss.
Whilst I understand that Mr and Mrs N feel the excess should be waived, Im not going to do 
that. An excess is required by the policy for a claim and I am requiring UKI to settle  both the 
buildings and contents claim.  I have also considered  what  upset I think  Mr and Mrs N were 
caused and explained my view on what I think fair and reasonable  compensation is below. 
Im satisfied by what Ive said  the £275 offered previously by UKI is fair and reasonable.
I understand  outside of having to clear the basement  that the claim being declined  was 
very upsetting for Mr and Mrs N. But I also note that UKI has already  paid them a total of
£275 compensation. This was for the adjuster  causing upset by agreeing the claim when 
UKI hadnt authorised it and didnt want to accept it, and £75 for some poor communication 
because Mr and Mrs N werent  told a loss adjuster would  be attending.
Having reviewed everything Im not going to say UKI should pay more.  Im particularly 
mindful that whilst  Mr and Mrs N have been under immense strain  since  this incident, a lot 
of that upset has been caused by their neighbour when  relations broke  down and which 
ultimately caused them to move  from their home of nearly 40 years.  Im not saying UKI 
didnt fail them or didnt cause them upset.  It clearly did. Rather, with everything else 
impacting on them  too, in my view, £275  reasonably  compensates  them  for the distress  and 
inconvenience UKIs failures caused.  If this hasnt  been paid already UKI should now do so. 
To be clear this is separate to the £500 compensation Ive awarded as settlement of the 
buildings claim.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs N:
£4,000 in settlement of the contents claim, minus an excess  (as directed above), plus 
interest* from 17 January 2019 until settlement is made.
£500 in settlement of the buildings claim,  minus  an excess (as directed above).
£275 compensation  for distress  and inconvenience, if this hasnt been paid already.
Ref: DRN44429134Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If U K Insurance 
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs N, it 
should tell them how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr and Mrs N a certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4442913