K821x#15complaint
Ms M instructed Allay Claims Ltd to deal with a number  of claims for potentially  mis-sold PPI.
background
Ms M is unhappy that Allay didnt give her enough time to cancel  her claims before they 
were successful. She has also said that Allay didnt tell her about the fee cap for PPI claims 
put in place by the Claims Management Regulator (CMR).
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. It has been 
investigated by the Claims Management  Ombudsman under the Legal Ombudsmans rules.
Our investigator found that Allay  gave Ms M a reasonable amount of time to cancel  her 
claims. She also found that Allay  should have made Ms M aware of the fee cap. She 
recommended that Allay  only charge  Ms M the amount of the fee cap (20% plus VAT).
Ms M agreed  with the investigator but Allay didnt. They say that Ms M chose to formally 
submit her claim  once more online without speaking  to us therefore we were not given an 
opportunity to speak  with the client in order to have a conversation regarding the fee cap.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
cancellation of claims
Allay sent claim paperwork to Ms M on 8 May 2018,  and received this back  on 21 June. 
Allay looked  into if Ms M had been sold PPI and let her know  by text on 17 July that she had 
a potential claim. 
Allay needed  a PPI questionnaire completed before  they could start the claim. Ms M filled 
this in online on 18 July and Allay submitted the claim for her. The claim was successful on 
14 August and Allay  invoiced for their fee.
Allay told Ms M about her potential claim on 17 July, and she couldve made a claim herself 
at this point. But, by completing the PPI Questionnaire, she instructed Allay  to make the 
claim for her. Ms M then had 14 days during which she could cancel her claim at no cost,  but 
she didnt do this.
Based on what happened  I agree with the investigator that Ms M was able to cancel her 
claim and Allay have acted reasonably.
fee cap
The Financial Guidance  and Claims Act 2018 (the Act) required the CMR to introduce a fee 
cap for PPI claims. The fee cap came into force on 10 July 2018. From this date, claims 
management companies couldnt  legally  charge  a success fee of more  than 20% plus VAT.
Ref: DRN41579882Ms M instructed the business  on 21 June 2018  after the Act was passed but before the fee 
cap came  into force.  Because of this the fee cap shouldnt apply to her claims.
But, on 11 May 2018, the CMR issued guidance  to all claims management companies. This 
said from  the date of this guidance you should  inform  all new or potential  clients of the 
upcoming change  to the fees you can charge. In December  2018, the CMR  told the 
Legal Ombudsman how this guidance should  be applied. They confirmed that, once  the 
guidance had been issued, we expected businesses to inform  all new or potential clients of 
the change to the fees that could be charged.  
My decision  is based  on the 11 May 2018  guidance and the December 2018 clarification 
from the CMR. Allay sent their paperwork to Ms M before the CMR guidance  was issued, so 
this couldnt have told her about the fee cap. But Ms M sent this back to Allay after the 
guidance, which meant that Allay shouldve let he know about the fee cap before they 
started the claim. Ive not seen any evidence they did this.  
Ive also not seen any evidence that Ms M wanted her claim to be progressed  as fast or as 
soon as possible. Had Ms M known of the fee cap, its likely she wouldve waited until after 
the fee cap came into force before instructing Allay. She would  then only have had to pay a 
fee of 20% plus VAT. Because of this I agree with the investigator that applying the fee cap 
to Allays fees is a fair and reasonable remedy in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold the complaint about the fee cap. 
Allay Claims  Ltd should reduce their fees to 20% plus VAT. As Ms M has already paid their 
fee they should refund her the difference between  the amount  she paid and their reduced 
fee, along with simple  interest calculated at 8% a year from the date they received her 
payment to the date of the refund.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4157988