K821x#15complaint
Miss H has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) incorrectly categorised the salvage 
of her car when she made a claim under her car insurance policy.  Mr K is representing 
Miss H in her complaint.
background
In November 2017 Miss H made a claim under her car insurance policy to UKI. An engineer  
declared Miss Hs car uneconomical to repair. There are four categories for vehicle salvage. 
They are:
A: Scrap  (not to be returned  to the road)
B: Break  (for parts but not to be returned to the road)
S: Structural damage (repairable) and;
N: Non structural damage (repairable).
UKIs engineer categorised Miss Hs car as B. Miss H decided to keep  the salvage. So UKI 
paid a total loss settlement to Miss H and deducted  a salvage fee.
In July 2018 Miss H complained to UKI. She said it didnt tell her about the categorisation of 
her car. Shed had it repaired.  It had passed its MOT in March 2018. But due to the 
categorisation, Miss H said she was unable to buy insurance and so couldnt use it. 
In July 2018 UKI said it had correctly categorised the salvage  of Miss Hs car. In August 
2018 Miss H asked Mr K to help her with her complaint. 
UKI replied to Mr K and maintained its position. So in November 2018 Mr K asked us to look 
at Miss Hs complaint. 
Our investigator found that UKI had told Miss H when it settled the claim in December 2017 
that it had categorised her car B. But he didnt think it had shown that its decision was 
reasonable. So he recommended UKI consider the categorisation of Miss Hs car from B to 
N. He also recommended UKI pay Miss H £300  compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience it had caused her. 
Miss H accepted the investigators view. UKI doesnt agree it should  pay Miss H £300 
compensation.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. 
Ive considered the relevant code  of practice for the categorisation  of motor vehicle salvage.  
The definition of category B (break for parts)  is 
The vehicle is deemed not suitable  to be repaired.  Usable  parts  can be recycled.
This vehicle  will be classed as waste
Ref: DRN42782522The engineers report said that it wasnt economical  to repair Miss Hs car. But it didnt 
explain why it was deemed a category B.
UKI told us that in the professional opinion of the engineer, Miss Hs car was correctly 
categorised. It had some structural  damage  and the engineer considered  it unsuitable for 
repair.
But Miss Hs car was subsequently inspected, repaired and passed its MOT in March 2018.  
Mr K  who is also an engineer  told us that Miss Hs car didnt require a new rear sub 
frame as UKIs report indicated. And he doesnt  agree  UKI could  have known this without 
carrying out a geometry check.  Mr K said the repairs Miss H arranged included  a geometry 
test. This test showed that the rear axle was aligned properly. And this meant that it 
therefore didnt  need to be repaired.  Mr K said the shock absorber listed  on the engineers 
report wasnt required either.  The difference in these costs alone  made  the difference  in his 
view  between Miss Hs car being economically  repairable by UKI. 
Mr K said that the engineer didnt mark Miss Hs car in his report as having structural  
damage. So his view  based on the actual repairs carried  out to Miss Hs car  is that it 
should have been categorised as N as there wasnt structural  damage.  The drivers side 
rear quarter panel was marked for repair and therefore deemed  suitable to repair. 
In response, UKI said it was confident its engineer was appropriately qualified  to inspect and 
decide on the condition and salvage category of the vehicle. It said that the damage to the 
sub frame wasnt checked at the time of assessment as the potential  costs made it 
prohibitive. 
However, Miss H has had her car repaired to a roadworthy condition   without requiring a 
new sub frame. So on balance, I think the information provided  by Mr K is more persuasive 
and I dont think UKI correctly categorised the salvage of Miss Hs car. 
UKI said that Miss H first raised the issue about  the salvage categorisation in March 2018. 
But she didnt advise  it of the impact relating to insuring  the car. If she had, it would have 
reviewed the repairs  and if they were up to standard, it would have changed the 
categorisation to S. It says a senior engineer has reviewed its decision and correctly 
categorised the car and followed the correct process. 
However, I think it was clear from Miss Hs complaint in July 2018 that she was unhappy 
because she was unable  to use her car following repairs  due to the categorisation of it. So I 
think UKI could  and should have reviewed the repairs then. But it didnt.  
Miss H said UKI didnt tell her that it had categorised  the car B. But UKI has provided a 
copy of a letter it sent to Miss H in December 2017 explaining the categorisation of Miss Hs 
car. Miss H said she tried to insure  her car in March  2018 after having  it repaired. 
So our investigator thought that UKI was responsible for some,  but not all of the time 
Miss H was unable to use her car  and so he recommended UKI pay Miss H £300  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  it caused her. Miss H accepts the 
investigators view. 
So I agree with the investigators recommendations to put things right.  In this case, I dont 
think theres enough to persuade me that UKI made  a fair decision when it categorised 
Miss Hs car as B. I think N is a more suitable category based on everything Ive seen.
Ref: DRN42782523my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. I 
require U K Insurance Limited to do the following:
change the categorisation of Miss Hs car from B to N following the code of 
practice for the categorisation of motor vehicle  salvage.
Pay Miss H £300  for the distress and inconvenience its caused her. 
U K Insurance Limited must pay the compensation  within 28 days  of the date on which  we 
tell it Miss H accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate 
of 8% a year
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2019..
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4278252