K822xcomplaint
Mr S and Miss B and complain about  advice they were given by Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited about a motor  insurance policy.
 
background 
Mr S and Miss B are unhappy that they were  incorrectly told in October 2017 that if Mr S was 
made the policy holder he would be able to drive other cars. They say as a result they 
cancelled their old policy at renewal and took out a new one with Mr S as the policyholder. 
But shortly  after that on 16 January  2018  he was stopped for driving another car without  
insurance, prosecuted  and convicted. They want compensating including  for their legal 
costs.
Admiral said in its final response that its advisor  said in October 2017 that in order to qualify 
for the driving  other  cars extension you need  to be over 25, the policyholder and the 
registered keeper  of the insured car. But she didnt  check how long Mr S had held his 
licence. When they subsequently cancelled  their old policy and took out a new one with Mr S 
as the policyholder they accepted its terms and were bound  by them. The new policy  
documents sent to them said the driving other  cars extension wasnt included for any driver 
on the new policy. Mr S wasnt covered by the extension as he had held his licence for under 
a year.  It was their responsibility to check the policy documents  to ensure they had the 
appropriate level of cover suitable  for their needs. Admiral cannot  accept responsibility if 
they chose to drive  another car after this or for their legal fees or court charges.  But it 
offered £25 compensation for the trouble and upset  caused by what the advisor  had said in 
October 2017 which although  incorrect wasnt part of the sale of the new policy. 
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be partly  upheld. He said:
Admiral accepts its advisor didnt correctly  explain in October  2017  the further 
requirement for getting the driving other  vehicles  extension  cover. This meant the 
new policy Mr S took out didnt have it and he was later convicted of driving another 
car without insurance.
Mr S new policy was sold online and during  the process the website showed a note 
that the cover didnt  include  driving  other vehicles. This was a clear message as part 
of the sales process for the new policy. Admiral  isnt therefore responsible for Mr S 
conviction and his resulting costs.
Mr S and Miss B have sent in some screenshots but these arent of Admirals website 
in December 2017. Theyre from November 2018 and relate to a different cover.  So 
he cant accept them as evidence  of what Admirals  website said in December 2017.
Mr S and Miss B have suffered considerable distress and inconvenience. But most of 
this has been  caused by the conviction which wasnt Admirals fault. Admiral didnt 
handle the call in October 2017  fairly  and its offer of £25 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by this call isnt enough. And it should pay them a 
further £50 compensation for this.
Ref: DRN41522972Admiral has apologised  for its handling of the call in October 2017 and agreed to pay a total 
of £75 compensation to Mr S and Miss B.
Mr S and Miss B have asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral accepts it couldve  handled the October  2017 call better. And its clear its advisor 
only gave Mr S and Miss B some of the necessary information about the conditions needed 
to obtain the other vehicle driver extension of cover. But although what  they were told 
influenced their decision  to change the policyholder  from Miss B to Mr S they werent sold 
the new policy on the basis of this call.
They applied for the new policy with Mr S as policyholder on Admirals website. And Im 
satisfied that the website  during the sales process  made clear that the policy  didnt include 
any cover  for driving other vehicles.
In addition the new policy documentation also made this clear.  For example the Certificate  of 
Motor Insurance  said the driving  of other cars extension is not included for any driver on the 
policy.
I think Admiral  adequately drew Mr S and Miss Bs attention to the new policys terms and 
conditions during the sales process  and after it was issued. And it was their responsibility, as 
Admiral has said, to check the terms of the policy and ensure  it met with all their specific 
needs. Given this, and as this was a new policy, I dont think  I can fairly  or reasonably  hold 
Admiral responsible for what  happened to Mr S when he drove  another car when he wasnt 
insured to do so under  the terms of this new policy. Consequently I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably require Admiral to compensate  them for Mr S conviction  or its consequences 
including by reimbursing  him for his legal and other  costs.
Even so Admirals advisor didnt give complete information to Miss B and Mr S in October 
2017 and they did rely on what had been said when  deciding  to change the policyholder 
from Miss B to Mr S. This wouldve caused  them some  distress and inconvenience. But as 
the adjudicator  has said the vast majority of their distress and inconvenience was caused by 
Mr S being  stopped, prosecuted and convicted  which wasnt Admirals  fault. 
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I agree with the 
adjudicator that a total of £75 compensation is appropriate for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by the phone call in October  2017. And although I recognise Ms S 
and Miss Bs frustration  I cant  fairly or reasonably  ask Admiral to pay them  anymore.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Admiral Insurance Company Limited should, if it 
hasnt done so already, pay Mr S and Miss B £75 compensation.
Admiral must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr S and 
Miss B accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Ref: DRN41522973* HM Revenue & Customs requires Admiral  to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr S and Miss B a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 December  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4152297