K821x#15complaint
Ms D has complained that Red Sands  Insurance  Company (Europe) Limited  unfairly refused 
to pay her claim under her pet policy.
background
Ms D took out her policy  with Red Sands on 18 July 2017. Its an annual  policy,  which 
means cover for a condition is limited to 365 days (assuming the policy  is renewed) and 
thereafter cover for that condition ceases. Such cover is also limited  by the amount of cover  
per year for a condition and/or the maximum policy limit, payment of the excess  and any co-
payment if detailed on the schedule.
It also excludes payment  of any claims where  the condition  arose  within the first 14 days  of 
the policy start date.  This is reduced  to the first 5 days if the cause of the claim was due to 
an accident. It also provides no cover  for anything to do with the pet being  used for breeding  
or for neutering.
Ms D acquired her cat from her neighbour and saw her vet first on 18 July where that vet 
history said the cat had had kittens  11 weeks ago but was now pregnant again. By 24 July, 
the vet noted Ms D wanted the cat to be spayed  and she was advised  to wean her kittens 
from the cat to stop lactation. 
On 19 August, Ms D took her cat to another out of hours vet with possible pyometra,  which 
was the cause of Ms Ds claim to Red Sands.
Red Sands  refused to pay Ms Ds claim so she brought  her complaint to us. The investigator  
initially thought  Red Sands hadnt done  anything  wrong. Ms D provided further evidence  and 
the investigator thought her complaint should  be upheld. Red Sands disagreed  and so Ms 
Ds complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 January 2019 and said the following:
First, I should point  out my duty is to decide  if Red Sands did anything wrong given 
the terms and conditions of the policy. I can see Ms D feels very strongly about the 
issues of her complaint  and I understand that. Here  I will look at the issues that I 
consider to be important  and the evidence provided. 
Its clear from the vet history  that when Ms Ds cat had her uterus  removed they 
found six embryo/fetus with a gross  amount of purulent discharge in her uterus. This 
is clearly detailed in the vet history.  So Ms Ds cat had been  pregnant  and the 
embryos had died without  being  born before her operation.
Its also clear  from the vet history that before Ms D took the cat to vet in 18 July 2017, 
the cat had had kittens around 11 weeks previously. Its also clear  on 18 July 2017 
from the vet history,  the cat was pregnant again. This is again confirmed by the vet 
history entry  on 24 July when the vet advised  the kittens be removed  in order  to 
cease lactation  before the cat was spayed, as on that visit Ms D indicated  she would 
like her cat to be spayed. Obviously, Ms Ds cat had not yet had the kittens  at that 
stage. 
On 19 August, the vet history says the following:
Ref: DRN44695042OWNER feels  her abdomen after seen  here then disappeared  and for 48 and 
abdomen appeared smaller? This occurred  last week. Parturition last week 
when disappeared? Mummified foetuses within uterus? She is still at [out of 
hours vets]  and they are recommending surgery today. Offered surgery  here 
with us today.
So this cat very sadly did have dead  kittens  in her uterus when it was removed. 
Whether or not this fact added  to the infection Ms Ds cat suffered at the time or 
whether it was incidental to it, is actually a central issue in this complaint,  which  
warrants discussion. I can only consider the evidence on this provided by both 
parties.
Ms Ds vet simply  says pregnancy doesnt  cause pyometra. But gives  no further  
opinion on the issues concerning Ms Ds cat, which is a pity. I dont consider that to 
be persuasive evidence.
Red Sands consultant vet gives a much more  detailed  description of what pyometra 
is, what causes it and what complications can arise. I consider it doesnt matter  that 
that this vet didnt  examine Ms Ds cat because whats needed  here is simply a 
detailed analysis of pyometra, and its issues, which this vet gives. 
She says the following:
Pyometra is a term that can be used  in two ways. In this case,  it is a technical 
terms for pus in the uterus, (regardless of cause).  Pyometra most commonly 
occurs as a result of a hormonal condition (cystic endometrial hyperplasia   
pyometra complex) that changes the endometrium  over time. This form of 
pyometra is so common that the term pyomtera is usually used colloquially in 
this shortened form, specifically to refer to this disease process.  It [sic] my 
opinion this was unlikely to be the cause of pregnancy loss here though.  
Pus in the uterus at the time of a failed pregnancy could either  the cause of 
the pregnancy  loss, or the result (due to retained, non viable placental  
material) thereof. Symptoms would largely  be the same regardless, as the 
symptoms of are the result of the infection  and inflammation  more  than the 
underlying process  itself.  Some causes of pyometra would have their own 
very specific symptoms, though in this case, no additional symptoms  were 
seen e.g. trauma,  toxicity,  fulminant  viruses.
Symptoms would depend on the degree  to which the cervix  was open, 
allowing drainage of pus  the more drainage is possible, the milder the 
symptoms seen.  . Even  the discharge might not be obvious,  as 
cats are fastidious groomers.  Symptoms with pregnancy loss are similar, 
sometimes with bloody fluid rather than pus being passed. When  pregnancies 
are lost in early pregnancy, foetalmaterial tends to be reabsorbed rather than 
expelled. In cases of reabsorption, owners may see the abdomen  swelling 
with progressive uterine size, followed by a decrease in size, but without 
obvious discharge.
She then listed the main  causes of primary pus in the uterus leading to pregnancy 
loss. The first being Cystic Endometrial Hyperplasia   Pyometra Complex,  which she 
Ref: DRN44695043discounted for Ms Ds cat, given she was pregnant at the time, and she also 
discounted the use of progesterone  based drugs as there was no evidence  of this 
being used for Ms Ds cat. Lastly, she said it can be as a result of the operation, 
which is of course discounted,  since this happened  to Ms Ds cat before her 
operation.
She then discussed  the causes of pregnancy loss, with pyometra as a complication. 
These include viral infections. She noted there was no record of Ms Ds being 
vaccinated yet and she noted there was no viral testing done when Ms Ds cat had 
her operation. Another cause was bacterial infections possibly from feral tomcats too. 
She discounted exposure to abortifacient drugs  or toxins, active  Toxoplasmosis, 
genetic defects,  abdominal trauma  and severe malnutrition based on the cats 
history.
She thought  that because the cat was at least 20 to 30 days  pregnant  when she was 
first examined on 18 July, given the pregnancy was diagnosed by palpation  alone,  
Ms Ds cat suffered the pyometra secondarily to the retained placental  contents.  
And by 19 August, the cat would have been in very late pregnancy  (or past her due 
date) at the time of her pyometra and surgery. She said it was possible the cat had 
two pregnancies  the first felt in examination on 18 July, which  was then reabsorbed, 
with the pregnancy seen at the time of the operation being a second pregnancy given 
the size of the foetuses found  in the uterus.  
She thought  this implied that Ms Ds cat was prone  to pregnancy loss either as a 
result of chronic viral disease or potentially  bacterial  numbers in her reproductive 
tract. Or alternatively, it was the only pregnancy but the loss of pregnancy  was earlier  
and the cat failed to reabsorb effectively leading to infection. She felt this was more  
likely. 
I am very much more persuaded by this detailed  analysis of pyometra, its issues  and 
its complications. So Im persuaded its more likely that sadly Ms Ds cat condition in 
this instance was caused by her pregnancy. So that means I dont  consider  it 
unreasonable for Red Sands to think this too.
However, Red Sands then needs  to show this isnt covered under its policy and I 
dont think it has.
Initially it relied on the fact that the condition  was pre-existing which is clearly wrong. 
As although Ms Ds cat was pregnant at the time of the policy start date, and for the 
first 14 days  following the start date,  I havent seen that she was suffering this illness  
at that time. 
Next, it relied on its exclusion for vet fees, which says the following:
The following are excluded from cover:
1.3.7 Costs for or related  to cosmetic treatment,  elective treatment, routine 
treatment or preventative  treatment recommended by a vet to prevent an 
injury or illness for whatever reason. This includes but is not limited to the 
following ..7. Breeding,  whelping, kittening.  
1.3.8 Costs resulting  from the consequences  of not having the cosmetic  
treatment, elective treatment, routine treatment or preventative  treatment 
recommended by a vet to prevent injury or illness as listed above.
Ref: DRN44695044However, there was nothing cosmetic,  elective, routine or preventative  about  the 
operation Ms Ds cat underwent.  The clause is worded in such a way that its clear  in 
order for the exclusion to apply, the treatment causing the vet fees to incur had to 
have been cosmetic,  elective, routine or preventative  and theres simply no evidence 
to support this. Instead, the evidence  points to it being an emergency operation to 
save the cats life.
Then Red Sands said it would have never  offered the policy to Ms D if she had told it 
the cat was pregnant. However, theres  no evidence of what  Red Sands asked Ms D 
when she was taking  out the policy to show this is what  Red Sands would have done. 
And indeed  its possible  given the notes  of the vet attendance on 18 July, that Ms D 
didnt know the cat was pregnant at the time of taking out the policy in any event. 
Red Sands policy excludes costs for neutering a pet but here whilst Ms Ds cat 
ended up being  neutered,  it wasnt the reason for the operation. And indeed  this 
operation is much more  complex than straightforward neutering.
In the schedule, one of the assumptions  is that the pet is not being used for breeding 
purposes. And in the policy, under the General Exclusions, it excludes claims where 
the pet has been used  for, or in connection  with a trade, profession, breeding  
whether as a business or not.  I dont consider this applies  to Ms D or her cat. The 
vet evidence is clear Ms D wanted her cat to be spayed and was simply waiting until 
she had her kittens. The cat appears  to have been pregnant before Ms D took her on 
and I dont consider  that means  Ms D was using her for breeding  purposes  either.
So in conclusion I dont  think  Red Sands has shown  that the particular circumstances 
of Ms Ds claim  for payment of vet fees is excluded. So I intend to uphold  this 
complaint.
Mrs D accepted my provisional  decision.  Red Sands didnt. 
It said it would have  asked Mrs D if her cat was pregnant  on the day she took out the policy. 
And she answered no to this declaration  which is why it offered her the policy. Further, if 
Mrs D had declared her cat was pregnant she would not have  been  offered any policy as 
Red Sands  does not provide insurance  cover for a pet that is going to be used for breeding. 
It then provided a script entitled upgrade guide.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me that Red Sands decided on I September 2017, to refuse to pay Mrs Ds claim 
because it felt her cats illness requiring vet treatment was pre-existing. It clearly wasnt pre-
existing. 
Then on 16 November  2017, Red Sands changed  its mind  and decided  to refuse to pay Mrs 
Ds claim because the costs for the treatment of her cat was for or related to cosmetic  
treatment, elective treatment, routine treatment or preventative  treatment including 
breeding, whelping, kittening.  As detailed in my provisional decision there was nothing  
Ref: DRN44695045elective, cosmetic, routine or preventative  about  the treatment Mrs Ds cat underwent in 
August 2017.
The script entitled upgrade guide doesnt tell me anything to do with the questions asked. 
And as I explained in my provisional  decision,  its not clear  to me that Mrs D knew her cat 
was pregnant until she visited the vet on the same  day she took out the policy. 
And in any event, the vet history from the start shows that Mrs D wanted to have her cat 
spayed and never had any intention  to use her cat for breeding purposes.
The declaration statement  in the schedule simply declares your pet is not used for breeding  
purposes which is precisely what Mrs D wanted. She didnt  want to use her cat for 
breeding purposes  at all. She wanted  her spayed. The declaration  statement doesnt  
require Mrs D to confirm  her cat wasnt pregnant however, it simply requires the policyholder  
to declare the pet is not used for breeding  purposes. I consider being accidentally  pregnant  
whilst being rescued is very different  to being  used for breeding purposes. 
Further Mrs Ds cat had pyometra, which is a condition  that can occur without the cat or 
indeed dog being pregnant at all. In fact, it most  commonly  presents in situations where the 
cat or dog isnt pregnant, as detailed  at some considerable length by Red Sands specialist 
vet. There would be consequently no reason for Red Sands to refuse a claim for pyometra 
where the pet wasnt pregnant either, as its a proper  and serious  illness, which  needs  vet 
treatment.
So in conclusion, I dont  consider it fair or reasonable  for Red Sands to use the very unusual  
event of this cat being pregnant with pyometra, as a valid reason given its terms and 
conditions of its policy to refuse to pay Mrs Ds claim. I consider Mrs Ds claim meets  Red 
Sands terms and condition for payment of her claim.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to do the following:
Pay Ms Ds claim under the remaining terms of the policy to include the excess  
payment and the policy  limits.
Add interest to the amount it pays Ms D from the date she incurred the costs to the 
date of its refund to her at 8% simple interest  per year.*
Pay Ms D £100  compensation for the trouble and upset it caused  her in its confusion  
for its reasons  in declining her claim.
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to withhold  income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms D how much 
its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction  certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Ref: DRN44695046Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4469504