K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about short-term loans granted to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as QuickQuid. Mr S says he couldnt afford these  loans and that QuickQuid didnt 
take appropriate steps to check whether he could afford them when he took them out. 
background
QuickQuid agreed six short-term loans for Mr S between November 2013 and April 2016. 
Each loan was repayable over between one and three months.  
Loan 2 was a flexible  credit agreement (flex-credit). This was a credit  facility that allowed 
Mr S to draw down money  up to a pre-agreed credit limit, with a view to repaying  it  
potentially over a period  of up to 10 months.
Mr S took out a top-up on loan 6. This is where  he took out further borrowing under the same 
agreement, before paying back the initial  amount borrowed. Ive set out a summary of the 
lending below.
loan no. applicationprincipal 
amount  (£)no. of 
instalments  duehighest monthly 
repayment  due (£)
1 16/11/2013 100 1 125
flex credit application credit limithighest estimated monthly 
repayment due (£)
2 31/12/2013 500 169
2a (limit  
increase) 17/05/2014 650unclear
loan no. applicationprincipal 
amount  (£)no. of 
instalments  duehighest monthly 
repayment  due (£)
3 17/07/2015 250 3 272
4 21/12/2015 100 3 111
5 19/01/2016 100 3 111
6 11/04/2016 350 3 389
6a 14/04/2016 75 3 472
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Ss complaint already and recommended  the 
complaint be upheld in part. He felt the checks QuickQuid carried  out on all of the loans were 
not proportionate. And he thought that had QuickQuid carried out proportionate  checks  on 
the above loans, it wouldve concluded  that loans 3, 5, 6 and the top-up on loan 6 (6a) 
wouldve been unaffordable for Mr S, and would not have agreed to them.
QuickQuid disagreed with the findings. And Mr S raised no new arguments in response to 
the adjudicators  assessment. So as no agreements been  reached at this stage, the case  
has come  to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision.
As it seems loans 1, 2 and 4 are no longer  in dispute, my decision  will focus on QuickQuids  
decision to approve  the remaining loans, loans  3, 5 and 6, and the top-up on loan 6 (6a). 
Ref: DRN46645342my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and   
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.  
QuickQuid initially said that it did conduct  appropriate and proportionate affordability
assessments, and these  checks  included, amongst other things,  a review of the income and 
expense information  Mr S provided  in comparison to data obtained from the Office of 
National Statistics for his area.
It raised this argument again in its response to the adjudicators assessment. It said that it 
started implementing changes to its affordability assessment in June  2014  and all the 
changes were completed by 28 February 2015. It said that starting 1 March  2015 before Mr S 
borrowed these loans,  it had implemented an affordability review that is consistent with the 
FCA Handbook and that was in place at the time it received  authorisation by the FCA. And 
that therefore the assessments were  conducted properly and individually  for these loans.
My role however, is to look not only into the rules and regulations  set by the regulator at the 
time of borrowing but also the law, good industry practice and all the available evidence and 
arguments to help decide whether I think what the business has done  is right or not. And in 
this case I dont think QuickQuid was right to provide  Mr S with the above loans in question.
This service has addressed this specific point by QuickQuid directly and in previous 
decisions, and I would  remind QuickQuid at this point of the FCA guidance on how 
complaints are to be dealt  with promptly and fairly  (my emphasis) by businesses.  In 
particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses procedures  for complaint handling 
should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
So my decision will focus on the specifics of Mr Ss complaint and what both parties have 
said about this.
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay  his loans in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Ss income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
Ref: DRN46645343the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These would 
include where:
a consumers income is low or the amount to be repaid takes up a substantial portion 
of their income 
the amount,  or amounts, due to be repaid are higher 
there is a larger number and/or frequency of loans 
the period  of time during which a customer has been provided with borrowing is long.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that there  are three  key questions  for me to consider in 
order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr Ss complaint. These  questions  are:
1.Did QuickQuid, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr S would be able to repay in a sustainable  way? If not, would 
those checks have  shown that Mr S would have been able to do so?
2.Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mr Ss indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable  or 
otherwise harmful?
3.Did QuickQuid act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
1. Did QuickQuid, each  time it lent, complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy  
itself that Mr S would  be able to repay  in a sustainable way? If not, would those checks have 
shown that Mr S would  have been  able to do so?
Mr S took out loan 3 around three months after he finished repaying  his flex-credit account. 
And his flex-credit account had run for around  15 months. So by this stage, I think  as a 
minimum, QuickQuid  shouldve  been  looking into understanding  more about Mr Ss monthly 
income and expenditure, which shouldve included it asking about his regular monthly living 
expenses, regular credit commitments,  and specifically, what other  short-term  lending 
commitments he may have had.
I can see that QuickQuid  asked Mr S about  his monthly income,  which he seems  to have 
declared at around  £1,394 a month,  and his monthly  outgoings, which hes disclosed at 
around £925. However, I think  QuickQuid shouldve also enquired  specifically into his other 
short-term credit commitments.  Had it done so, it wouldve  seen that just a couple of months 
prior, he had borrowed over £1,250  from another  short-term  loan provider, and had 
committed to making repayments of around  £110  a week. 
The adjudicator thought  it would be fair to presume that at least one of the instalments to 
short-term lender wouldve been due during  the term of this loan.  However, as this loan was 
being repaid weekly, I think  its fair to say its likely Mr S wouldve been  due to repay much 
more than this within  any given month.  And if these weekly amounts due were  also deducted 
Ref: DRN46645344from his monthly income along with his other monthly disclosures, his monthly  outgoings 
wouldve already  exceeded his stated  monthly income at the time.
However, even if I was to conclude it reasonable for just one of these weekly  instalments to 
be taken into account when calculating the affordability of this loan for Mr S, this wouldve 
still left him with around just £359 a month  out of which  to meet  his QuickQuid repayments.  
And given  that the highest repayment  due on this loan was around £272 a month, I dont 
think this level of disposable income  was sufficient to conclude that Mr S would be able to 
maintain the repayments on this loan sustainably. So subsequently, I dont think QuickQuid 
wouldve agreed to this loan had it carried out proportionate checks. 
Loan 5 was taken out just a week after Mr S repaid  loan 4, and this loan was for £100,  which  
was due to be repaid  over three  months, and the highest monthly repayment due was 
around £111. Given that Mr S had now been borrowing from QuickQuid for over two years, I 
think at this stage  QuickQuid shouldve by now been  concerned  about Mr Ss possible 
reliance on short-term credit, and subsequently,  shouldve been carrying  out a full review of 
Mr Ss financial circumstances and verifying  the information it was given, to ensure that he 
could afford  the repayments sustainably. 
Had QuickQuid carried out such a review, I think it wouldve  seen that at the time Mr S 
applied for loan 5, he was earning around £2,040  a month. It wouldve also seen that his 
regular monthly living  costs were just over £1,600 a month, and his total monthly credit 
commitments, including short-term credit  commitments, were  around £312 a month. This left 
Mr S with a monthly disposable income of around  £123.
Given that the highest monthly repayment due on loan 5 was around £111,  Im not satisfied 
that the disposable income identified, was sufficient  for QuickQuid to have concluded that 
Mr S wouldve  been  able to repay this loan sustainably. So as a result, I dont  think it was 
responsible for QuickQuid  to have approved this application, and I dont  QuickQuid wouldve 
done so, had it carried out proportionate checks.
Loan 6 was taken out just a few months  after loan 5, and at this point it appears Mr Ss 
monthly income had dropped a little to around £1,550. Proportionate checks  wouldve shown 
QuickQuid at this point that Mr Ss total monthly  outgoings across  his regular living  costs  and 
monthly credit commitments, including short- term credit, totalled over £1,700  a month.  And 
that therefore, he had no disposable income  available to service  any further credit repayments 
at this time.  So again, as a responsible lender, I dont think  QuickQuid  wouldve approved 
this loan, and the subsequent top-up for Mr S, had it carried  out proportionate checks.
2. Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall  pattern of 
lending increase Mr Ss indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful?
Ive not gone onto assess the overall pattern  of lending at this stage, because I dont need 
to, as I already  think the loans in question  should not have been agreed.
3. Did QuickQuid act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything that 
leads me to conclude  QuickQuid  acted unfairly  or unreasonably towards  Mr S in some other 
way.  
Ref: DRN46645345In summary,  I dont think QuickQuid shouldve  agreed to loan 3 and loans 5  6a, and I think  
Mr S has lost out as a result.  
what QuickQuid  needs to do to put things right
refund  the interest and charges Mr S paid on loan 3, and loans 5 - 6a
 
pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple  a year from the date they were paid to the 
date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about these loans from Mr Ss credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr Ss complaint  in part. 
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things  right as described  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4664534