K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the way Santander  Consumer (UK) Plc treated him when he fell 
behind with payments  towards his conditional sale agreement.
background
Mr G acquired  a car through a conditional sale agreement in May 2015.  He met the monthly 
repayments of £279.97,  seemingly without  any issues, until December 2016 when he lost his 
job. 
After Mr Gs direct debit  payment failed  in January 2017, Santander said it sent him a text 
message and tried to contact him. Mr G called  Santander on 20 January 2017 and advised  it 
of his circumstances. But he also explained that hed found alternative employment which 
was to start in February 2017  so he would receive his first wage on 20 March 2017.
Santander told Mr G he was able to change the due date of his payments if he wanted  to. He 
agreed to this and it was changed to the 25th of each month. It also said it told him that if his 
agreement fell into arrears of two or more instalments, a default  notice would  be issued. And 
it said that Mr G had agreed to make  some kind of payment to help avoid the default notice 
being issued.  Mr G made a token  payment  of £14.97 on 2 February  2017.
While the account  appears to have been on hold already,  Santander agreed, during a 
telephone conversation on 13 March  2017,  to continue to place  a hold on the account until 
20 March 2017.  This is the date Mr G had agreed  to contact it to make  his usual monthly 
repayment and to discuss setting up a payment plan to clear the arrears.  At this point, Mr G 
was in arrears of £579.97. 
Santander said Mr G didnt get in contact as agreed  on 20 March  2017. So it issued  a default 
notice on 30 March 2017, as the outstanding  arrears  had reached £859.94.
Mr G called Santander on 30 March  2017 to make  a payment of £279.97. Santander said it 
asked what he could  contribute  towards his arrears  each  month  and Mr G said he could pay 
£25 each month. But Santander declined  this as it wouldve taken just under three years to 
repay the arrears  and would extend the agreement beyond June 2019   the date it was due 
to finish. 
Santander says it would  normally offer a six-month arrangement as a gesture of goodwill. 
And it said that its agent advised Mr G that as the default notice had been correctly  issued,  
action would continue  until an acceptable arrangement for the arrears had been agreed.  So 
the agreement  would  need  to be brought up to date within 21 days  or action would continue. 
Santander said, as it hadnt received any contact or payments for the arrears or monthly 
instalments after that date, it terminated  the agreement  on 10 May 2017 and arranged for 
repossession of the car through an external agent. It said that Mr G called in on 30 May 
2017 saying that Santanders  agents had been in contact regarding  the repossession  of the 
car. But after this call, Santander said it didnt  have any direct contact with Mr G until 
13 December 2017, despite multiple  attempts to call him. 
Ref: DRN41119222The car was repossessed in June 2017. It was sold at auction  and the sale proceeds of 
£10,280 reduced the outstanding balance to £7,692.19. But as there  was no further contact 
or payment towards the shortfall, the matter was passed to Santanders solicitors  in 
September 2017 and legal fees of £540 were  applied.  So the outstanding balance increased  
to £8,232.19. 
Santander thinks that its treated Mr G fairly  and given him multiple chances to contact it or 
arrange payment.  It says he was given six weeks between the agreement  being defaulted 
and terminated  to arrange payments, which is substantially longer than the time its legally 
required to provide.
Mr G told us that he set up and made payment  to Santander for the usual monthly amount 
when he received his first payment from his new employer,  and tried to agree on payments 
towards the arrears.  He says he offered to make payments of £1.00 extra per month which 
was refused. So he offered £25 extra; £50 extra and then, after borrowing from a family 
member, offered to pay the full arrears.  Mr G says Santander refused  his proposed 
payments. Mr G said hed offered to pay the full arrears but was told hed need to pay the full 
balance of around £16,500. He said, after his offers to pay off the arrears werent granted,  
hed expected some form of correspondence  from a collections department. But, instead, he 
received a letter to say his agreement had been  cancelled. 
Mr G accepts he was in arrears but thinks Santander has treated him unfairly as he was 
willing and able to put things right but wasnt allowed to. Hes unhappy that Santander is 
looking to secure the remaining debt against his home. So he brought  his complaint to us.  
Our investigator considered this complaint. He didnt  think  Santander had treated Mr G 
unfairly. But Mr G disagreed so the complaint has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  Mr Gs difficult  financial circumstances.  I can see that he kept up to 
date with his payments  from the start of the agreement in May 2015 until December 2016.  It 
was only when he lost his job that he fell behind with his payments. I appreciate this 
wouldve been an extremely  difficult time for him. 
When deciding this complaint, the crux of the matter is about whether Santander treated 
Mr G fairly (as well as lawfully under the terms and conditions of the credit  agreement).  I 
think it did which means that Im not upholding this complaint  Ill explain why in more detail. 
But, before I do, I think its worth  pointing out here that Santander wasnt  able to provide me 
with all of the call recordings relevant to this complaint. So Ive based my decision on what  
both parties have told me; the calls Ive been  able to listen to; written evidence;  and what I 
think is most likely  to have happened. 
Ref: DRN41119223I note the credit agreement makes  it clear that missing repayments can have severe  
consequences. I also note that under the section our rights  if you break any term of this 
agreement, it outlines what would happen if a consumer fell into arrears by two or more  
repayments and then failed to comply  with the default notice. These options include what 
Santander ultimately did, which was to require  Mr G to repay the full outstanding balance  on 
the account less the proceeds  from the sale of the car. The terms also state that if Mr G 
broke any terms of the agreement, he must pay all of Santanders  reasonable expenses  and 
costs in administering the agreement and taking steps (including court action)  to enforce the 
agreement and obtain payment. So Im satisfied that Santander  was clear about what  could 
happen if the agreement was breached at the time of sale.  
Ive listened to a call between Mr G and Santander from February 2017. In this call Mr G 
made a small payment and he was asked if he was going to be able to make the full 
payment in March  2017. He said hed be able to make the monthly  payment but wouldnt be 
able to pay the arrears  in full. Santander  said it would need an update  around how Mr G 
intended to pay these arrears by March 2017, and that there would need to be an 
arrangement in place for this. It also explained  that a default notice would be issued if he 
didnt make a payment  on 20 March 2017   the date Mr G said hed be able to. I think Mr G 
was made  aware  of the consequences of non-payment by the agreed  date. 
Mr G didnt make the monthly  payment by 20 March 2017. So a default notice was sent on 
30 March 2017.  Looking at this notice,  I can see it clearly  explained  that Mr G had broken 
the terms of his agreement which required punctual payment of specified  instalments. This 
had led to arrears of £859.94 which  were  to be paid by 19 April 2017. It said that if the 
amount was paid by that date, no further  enforcement action would be taken. But if not, the 
agreement would be terminated, possessions recovered and immediate payment of the 
balance required.  
Mr G contacted Santander on 30 March 2017  (the same  date as the default notice was 
issued) to offer a monthly payment of £25 towards  his arrears. Under CONC 7.3 (a specialist 
consumer credit sourcebook published  by the Financial  Conduct Authority), Santander  is 
required to treat a customer in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. 
That doesnt  mean it had to accept  any payment arrangement that was offered to it though. 
CONC 7.3.5 gives an example of treating a customer with forbearance  as allowing 
deferment of payment  of arrears provided  that doing so does not make the term for the 
repayments unreasonably excessive.  I dont think it was unreasonable of Santander  to 
decline this proposal  given that it wouldve taken  almost  three  years  to clear the arrears and 
this wouldve  gone beyond the end of the agreement.  
I havent seen  sufficient evidence to show that Mr G offered a reasonable alternative 
arrangement to repay the arrears  when the offer of £25 per month was declined. I think the 
notice was clear about the severity of the situation  and how the arrears  needed to be paid to 
stop the agreement being terminated. So, particularly given that the situation had reached  
the point of a default notice being issued,  I think the onus was on Mr G here to approach 
Santander with an appropriate way forward. Mr G said hed offered to repay the arrears  in 
full by borrowing  from a family member.  I cant see when  or how he put this offer to 
Santander but I dont think its likely that this was prior to 19 April 2017. I say this because,  
had he paid the arrears by this date, no further action wouldve been taken by Santander,  as 
it says in the default notice. 
Ref: DRN41119224Ive thought further about whether Santander acted  with forbearance and due consideration, 
especially given that Mr G is particularly  unhappy about how he was treated. When Mr G 
made Santander aware of his situation and missed two payments, Santander put his 
account on hold.  This hold was from 13 January until 20 March 2017. As a result of this hold, 
Santander reversed  a late payment charge and didnt  apply  any additional fees or charges 
right up until the agreement was terminated. So I think it did enough  here to treat Mr G fairly. 
As the arrears hadnt been paid by the given  date, or indeed by around three  weeks  beyond 
that, Santander terminated the agreement. I dont think it was unreasonable  to have done 
this, and it complies with its requirements  under the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 which say 
that the date given  in the default notice (by which time action must be taken) must not be 
less than 14 days after the date it was served.  Santander gave 21 days  in the notice  
asking for payment by 19 April 2017   but didnt terminate the agreement until 11 May 2017. 
And, once  the agreement  had been terminated, Santander had the right to repossess and 
sell the car, which  it did. So, again, I think it acted with due consideration and forbearance 
rather than merely in line with its strict  legal and contractual rights.
As Santander didnt  hear from Mr G, it passed  the matter  to its solicitors in September  2017. 
And it seemingly didnt hear from Mr G until December 2017. I cant say that it was unfair of 
Santander to involve its solicitors. It had, and still has, a right to recover  the money it has lent 
within a reasonable timeframe. And this can be through a variety  of means. Mr G has 
mentioned that Santander intends  to hold a legal charge on his home. But as Santander has 
a right of recovery, its entitled to do this if it doesnt  receive payment. And, as it doesnt 
appear to be receiving payments from Mr G, I dont think its unfair to proceed with this 
option. Securing debt on real estate  is a long-established and lawful  way for a creditor to try 
and recover what is owed.
So based  on the evidence and arguments,  I dont think Santander has done  anything wrong 
here. I wont  be asking it to do anything differently and I dont think  its unreasonable  to try 
and recover the money  owed  to it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against Santander Consumer 
(UK) Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4111922