K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Mrs C complain about the cancellation of Mr Gs motor insurance policy by Royal 
& Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) and about its general poor service.
background
Mr G bought the policy on 31 May 2018. His car was stolen  a week later. A telematics box 
was still due to be fitted.  In a call with RSA on 11 June 2018  Mr G asked a claims advisor 
what he needed to do next. She put him through to the validations team. An advisor in that 
team cancelled the boxs fitting. Mr G said he intended to get a new car and would keep the 
policy running. The advisor then noted that Mr G hadnt supplied the driving licence details  
that RSA required, and the rest of the call was about that. She said Mr G must do so within  
the next seven  days  or the policy would  be cancelled.
Mr G supplied the licence  details in time and was later paid for the total loss of his car. He 
says he called RSA again to ask whether he should now cancel  the policy or carry on paying  
the premium. He says he was told to keep on with the payments. But RSA cancelled the 
policy in July 2018 as Mr G hadnt added  a car to it. RSA later said Mr G owed £613.30 for 
the remaining  premium  (corrected to £536.58 after he complained). Mr G says if it had said 
he must add another car to the policy to avoid the cancellation hed have  done  so.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  Mr G and Mrs C had made. She said that in 
the calls shed listened to she hadnt heard  RSA tell Mr G to keep up the payments. She 
noted that it had sent a total loss letter and an email to him on 20 June 2018 to say that if he 
didnt add a car to the policy within 30 days it would be cancelled. Mr G said he didnt get the 
letter or the email.  He said the call hed made should have been  recorded. But the 
investigator said RSAs  records showed no other calls with him. She noted that Mr G wasnt 
happy with the sum RSA had paid for his car. He felt the balance of the premium  should be 
taken from the shortfall. But as Mr G hadnt initially complained to RSA about the cars 
valuation, she said hed have to raise it in a separate complaint.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One of the less serious service issues Mr G raised was that an appointment to fit the box 
couldnt be done at the weekend. Im not sure that was unreasonable, but a separate firm 
carries out that work, and I dont think RSA can be blamed for its working  hours. 
Mr G also thought RSA acted unreasonably in not giving him extra time to supply his driving  
licence details. I think it was fair for RSA to give Mr G 14 days notice of the policys  potential  
cancellation if he wasnt able to do so. The advisor said a request for driving licence details 
would have been there when Mr G bought the policy online. And I can see that the welcome  
pack he got from RSA set out what would happen  if they werent supplied. 
Unfortunately, Mr G had mislaid his licence.  And he was facing very difficult  and worsening 
domestic circumstances,  partly due to Mrs Cs serious medical  condition.  So I dont think its 
Ref: DRN47552182surprising that he didnt note RSAs requirements.  He says hed never been asked for driving 
licence details by other  insurers,  so he wasnt expecting it. And he thought that once hed 
made a payment, the policy was securely  in place. 
I can see that it must have been very stressful  for Mr G to have to get a new licence issued 
in such a short time, especially whilst he was coping  with so many other problems. He says 
he felt he had to beg for an extension,  without  success - although the advisor  did say RSA 
would look at the matter again if the licence didnt  come through in time. Despite that, I 
understand why Mr G felt RSAs service was poor in relation  to this issue.  But I think RSA 
was entitled to ask for the licence details quickly. The policy had yet to be validated, and a 
claim had already been made on it. As RSA had given Mr G due notice of the documents  it 
needed, I dont  think it acted unreasonably.
Mr G told RSA during the call on 11 June 2018  that he was going  to get a new car and 
wanted the policy to continue. His query about  what to do next wasnt  dealt with at that time,  
as the conversation was diverted to the issue of his driving licence details. I have no doubt  
that if Mr G had been told then  or had realised  at any point - that he must add another car 
to the policy  to stop its cancellation, he would have done so. I accept what  Mr G has said 
about it making no sense  at all for him to have done otherwise. 
My understanding is that the delay  in buying  another car straight away  was largely  due to the 
fact that Mrs C was just out of hospital. She was still recovering and there were continuing 
concerns about  their new born baby. So Mr G had some very difficult  and time-consuming 
issues to manage.  And he was confident that all was well with the policy, having managed  to 
meet RSAs  requirements  to validate it. 
The cancellation meant Mr G and Mrs C had to buy a cheaper  car, as they had to pay more 
for their new insurance. I think they were genuinely  shocked when, a month later,  RSA 
asked them for the balance  of the premium  on the cancelled policy.  The first sum RSA asked 
for was wrong. But once  it was corrected, I dont think  it was wrong  for RSA to ask for 
payment. A claim had been  paid on the policy, so RSA was entitled to the full premium for 
the year. But I think this is an issue many consumers dont expect to have to deal with.
In my opinion, the question is whether  it was reasonable for RSA to cancel the policy  in the 
first place  thereby making the remaining premium payable. Theres no basis to challenge 
its assurance that theres no record of any calls with Mr G other  than the ones weve  listened  
to. It has sent us notes  from its computer  system  to support what its saying. I think its 
always possible that a call made by a consumer  can be lost. But as theres no evidence of 
the call Mr G is sure he made, I can only consider the rest of the details we have.. 
RSA can show it sent a letter to Mr G on 20 June 2018. The letter  said he had 30 days to put 
a car on the policy to prevent its cancellation.  I accept that Mr G didnt get it. But in a 
situation where an insurer can show it issued a letter, our approach is to say it cant be 
blamed if the letter  didnt  arrive. And in this case, RSA can show that it also Mr G an email. 
RSA couldnt have known that Mr G didnt  get the letter or the email. So when it didnt hear 
from him, I think  it was reasonable for it to cancel the policy a month later.   
The cancellation has had serious financial consequences for Mr G and Mrs C. It seems that 
having to find an extra £536.58 - at a time when they face many other expenses  - has 
caused them  particular  hardship. Mr G says RSAs decision to instruct  debt collectors has 
led to a great deal of extra worry and upset for the family, which  is the last thing they need. I 
appreciate that it must have felt like the last straw for Mr G and Mrs C. I think  RSA was 
Ref: DRN47552183entitled to take that step, given the outstanding debt. But I would have thought  a suitable 
repayment plan could be arranged, especially given their extenuating circumstances. 
Mr G and Mrs C believe  RSA has acted unfairly.  On the evidence thats available to me, I 
cant agree  thats  the case. So although I have great sympathy  with the situation that they 
have found themselves in, Im not able to uphold their complaint.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 November 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4755218