K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms M complain that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  to them alongside  a mortgage. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Ms M didnt agree with 
that view and the matter  was passed  to me to make  a final decision. 
I asked our adjudicator  to make some further  enquiries of the parties. I am grateful to both 
for the speed  at which they responded to the request. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
I am very sorry  to disappoint Mr and Ms M. Whilst I can see that some  things might have 
gone wrong with the way Nationwide set up their PPI policy,  I dont think  Mr and Ms M lost 
out because of that. So Im sorry to say I havent  upheld their complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
I can see that PPI was sold to Mr and Ms M during a meeting at the same time as their 
mortgage. I cant know what was said during  that meeting. So to help me decide whats  likely  
to have happened, Ive looked at what Mr and Ms M told us about  it. And Ive also looked at 
the paperwork thats available from the time.  
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Mr and Ms M would have  known the PPI was 
optional and they didnt have to buy it if they didnt want it. I can see that Mr and Ms M told 
us they were given  such a lot of information at their initial  meeting  with Nationwide and they 
felt like they had to take one of the policies they were offered. 
I think its important for me to say that I dont doubt  at all that what  Mr and Ms M told us is 
what they honestly remember about  the meeting. I appreciate they said they felt pressured 
into taking a policy and I can understand why they could have felt a bit overwhelmed if this 
was their first mortgage. 
But objectively, I think they probably  knew they didnt have to take this policy  out if they 
didnt want it. I can see the cover was free for the first 12 months  and its unlikely that a 
compulsory policy would  be free for a certain  period. They  havent  told me that Nationwide  
said or did anything  specifically to make  them  feel under  pressure. Overall,  I think they 
probably knew the PPI wasnt  a condition of the mortgage.  
I dont think Nationwide  advised Mr and Ms M to buy this PPI policy. By that, I mean that it 
doesnt look as though  Nationwide assessed  their personal circumstances and then said this 
particular policy was right for them. But it still had to make sure it gave Mr and Ms M enough 
information about the cover so they could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for 
their needs.  That information had to be fair, clear  and not misleading.  
Ref: DRN42027172I think its unlikely the information Nationwide gave  to Mr and Ms M was as clear as it should 
have been. For example,  I cant see the cost of the policy set out clearly on the application  
form. So it seems  to me unlikely that the person selling PPI to Mr and Ms M would have  
made that clear. 
The question for me now is whether Mr and Ms M would have acted differently if Nationwide 
had told them everything it should  have done.  To help me decide what theyre  likely to have 
done, Ive looked at what Mr and Ms M told us about their personal  circumstances.  And Ive 
also thought carefully  about the terms and conditions of the PPI. 
From the policy documents, I can see that if theyd had to make  a claim on the policy,  Ms M 
would have been covered  for up to 12 months  for 100% of the mortgage repayments if shed 
lost her job or if she became unwell. But on the mortgage application form, Mr and Ms M 
asked that PPI be set up to cover them both for 50% of the mortgage  each. 
Nationwide told us that it thought the cover  had probably been set up to cover  Ms M only 
because they had changed their minds. But when our adjudicator checked with 
Mr and Ms M, nothing had changed about  Mr Ms circumstances. And I cant see any reason 
why they would decide not to cover  Mr M. On balance, I think  its more  likely that Nationwide  
didnt set the cover up according to Mr and Ms Ms instructions. 
So Ive thought really carefully  about whether Mr and Ms M have lost out because of what  
Nationwide did wrong. I dont think they did. I say this because it seems  likely to me that 
even if Nationwide  had set the PPI up correctly, the overall cost to cover Mr and Ms M for 
50% each  was the same as it was to cover Ms M only.  Effectively, the cost wouldnt have 
changed if the PPI had been shared between them. 
What this means in practice is that Mr and Ms M would only be worse  off because of 
Nationwides mistake  if Mr M had tried to claim  and wasnt able to. But I havent seen any 
evidence that this happened. So as Mr M didnt try and claim, they havent lost out. 
Thinking more generally about their circumstances,  I can see that Mr and Ms M had good 
sick pay arrangements with their employers.  But it looks as though the PPI would still have 
paid out for longer than the sick pay would have lasted. 
I know that Mr and Ms M told us they had some  savings and an insurance  policy.  But they 
havent been able to tell us how much their savings were. And I dont think the insurance 
policy they described would have covered them for the same things as the PPI. Mr and Ms 
M told us that they didnt need  PPI because if one of them was off work, the other  would 
have been able to pay the mortgage. But I think their finances  could  have been  stretched in 
that situation. And an important factor in this case is that Mr and Ms Ms mortgage was 
secured on their home,  so it was at risk if they fell behind with their repayments. I havent 
seen anything to suggest any of the policys exclusions would have applied in this case. 
With all of this in mind, I think Mr and Ms M would have still bought PPI even if Nationwide 
had told them everything it should  have done.  I can see why Mr and Ms M will feel aggrieved 
that their complaint  hasnt been  upheld  even though there were probably  some  mistakes 
made by Nationwide. But I dont think they lost out financially  because  of anything  
Nationwide did wrong. 
Ref: DRN42027173my final decision
I havent upheld  this complaint and so I dont require Nationwide  Building Society to take any 
action to put things right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4202717