K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Godiva Mortgages  Limited  didnt offer her a better interest rate on her 
mortgage account. 
background
Mrs S took out an interest only mortgage  with Godiva  in 2007. The mortgage was taken out 
on a self-certification  basis.  For the first three  years, the interest rate tracked the Bank of 
England base rate. It then reverted to Godivas standard  variable rate (SVR), and later to 
Godivas privilege rate, 0.25% below the SVR. 
In 2016, Mrs S took a new two-year fixed rate. This was followed by another in 2018.
Mrs S complained. She said it wasnt fair Godiva  hadnt offered  her another interest rate 
sooner. She said she had been asking for many years. Godiva hadnt kept her informed 
about her mortgage  or told her what she was entitled to. When  she had asked for a lower  
rate, she had been refused. Being on a higher  rate had caused her financial difficulty.
Godiva said it had no record  of Mrs S asking for a new rate before 2016  though  they had 
spoken about other things. It said it had written to Mrs S telling her what her new rate and 
payment would be in 2010 and 2012,  so she could have asked for a new fixed  rate at any 
time if she wanted one. It therefore didnt consider it had acted unfairly. And it said part of 
the complaint  was out of time, since it related to events more  than six years before Mrs S 
complained.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, so Mrs S asked for it to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint concerns  events going  back to 2010,  when Mrs Ss mortgage  reverted  to the 
SVR. Godiva have  consented to us looking at matters that would otherwise be out of time, 
and so I will be considering the whole of this complaint.
When her mortgage was first taken  out, Mrs S was on a rate that tracked 0.55% above the 
Bank of England  base rate. When that rate expired in 2010,  therefore, her monthly payments 
increased substantially  as the SVR was much higher than that.
I can understand why that would have been  difficult for Mrs S. And so  even  though its not 
recorded in Godivas notes  I accept  what she says, that she did contact Godiva and ask for 
a new rate.
Mrs Ss mortgage was taken out on a self-certification basis.  Godiva  like many other 
lenders in 2007  accepted such mortgages.  But they were generally seen as being more 
risky than standard mortgages, and as a result lenders  often charged  higher interest  rates 
for self-certified mortgages  than for standard mortgages. 
Ref: DRN41644832Ive seen the rates Godiva had available in 2010.  As a self-certification borrower wanting a 
product switch, there was only one rate available to her. This was 5.5%, higher than the SVR 
at the time. This means that if Mrs S had switched to a new rate, her mortgage payments 
wouldnt have reduced, they would have increased even more.
She might not remember the details of the conversation now  it was ten years ago  but I 
think its likely this is the reason Mrs S didnt take a new rate in 2010. One was available  to 
her, but it was more expensive than she was already paying,  and so not good value.
Mrs S says she asked for a new rate several times over the next few years. Again, theres no 
record of that in Godivas notes. But I think the outcome would have  been  the same. Ive 
seen the rates Godiva had available  and the self-certification rate was still higher than the 
SVR.
In 2012, when it moved her rate to the loyalty privilege  rate, Godiva accidentally removed the 
self-certification marker from her mortgage account.  This means that its systems would no 
longer prevent its advisers from offering non-self-certification rates.  
But in the years between 2014  and 2016, Mrs S had periods  of arrears. A borrower in 
arrears generally isnt eligible for a new interest rate. Thats because arrears  can be a 
pre-cursor to the end of a mortgage  either through sale or repossession   and breaking a 
fixed interest rate to end the mortgage means  an early  repayment charge would be payable.
Its also the case that throughout this period, there was no obligation on Godiva to 
pro-actively invite  Mrs S to apply for a new rate. So even in times when she was eligible, 
Godiva didnt need to write to her to let her know about new rates.
In 2016, when Mrs S asked again,  she was no longer in arrears.  And, as the self-certification  
marker had accidentally been removed  from her account, there was nothing  to stop her 
getting the standard rates even though she wasnt entitled to them. Since  2016,  therefore, 
shes benefitted from Godivas mistake, in being  given access to rates she wasnt  eligible for 
without going  through  a full affordability  assessment.
I dont therefore  think that Godiva  has treated Mrs S unfairly. It hasnt pro-actively invited her 
to apply for rates before she did, but it wasnt obliged to do so at the relevant times. There  
were in any case periods  when Mrs S wasnt eligible for a rate at all, and periods when she 
was only eligible for a rate that was higher  than the one she was already on. And since  2026 
shes had the benefit of rates that, strictly speaking, shes not entitled to. So overall  I think  
shes better off than she might otherwise have been.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4164483