K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about Miss Es mortgage with Nationwide  Building Society. Miss E says 
Nationwide didnt do enough to help her when she was struggling financially due to 
long- term health problems. 
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 14 October 2019, which is attached  below and forms 
part of this final decision, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which I was minded to 
determine this complaint,  subject to the further  submissions of the parties. 
Both parties  replied, saying they agree with my proposal for settling the dispute.  Nationwide  
provided the information I asked it for about  alternative rates,  and a recalculation  of the 
mortgage as requested.  The rates Nationwide selected for the purpose of the re-calculation  
are as follows:
a two-year tracker  (not fixed)  rate of 1.24% from 2015 to 2017; and
a two-year tracker  (not fixed)  rate of 1.29% from 2017 to 2019.
The amount  revealed  as having been overpaid by applying these rates  retrospectively was 
£13,285.44. 
I then issued a second provisional  decision signalling my intention to direct Nationwide  to 
pay this money direct  to the mortgage  account.  It had indicated  its preference that the 
redress should be paid this way, and initially, I had understood Miss E to have  not expressed 
a preference either way. However, Miss E had told us she preferred to receive the redress  in 
cash. I apologise to both parties for having missed that
Once I was aware  of Miss Es preference,  I let Nationwide  know of my intention  to revert to 
the first provisional decision by allowing  Miss E to decide how the redress  should be paid. 
Nationwide has said it still believes it would be in Miss Es best interests for the money  to be 
credited to the mortgage account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have decided  to revert 
to my first provisional decision, as attached below.
I do take Nationwides point about Miss Es mortgage being interest-only,  and the possible 
impact of any settlement  on her benefits  entitlement. On the latter,  Im satisfied Miss E is 
aware of that risk and has taken it into account  when  deciding how shed prefer  to receive 
the redress. 
As to the point  about the mortgage being  interest-only, I think  Nationwide and Miss E might 
need to have a separate  conversation after this complaint has been  determined. I say that 
because Nationwide  clearly believes Miss E has no repayment  vehicle,  where she is 
adamant that she has and has told Nationwide what it is. Who is or isnt right on that point  
doesnt affect my decision here. As Ive indicated, that is something the parties might want to 
clarify between them,  hopefully without any recrimination over what has gone before.
Ref: DRN47420632my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In 
full and final settlement,  I direct Nationwide Building Society to:
pay Miss E £13,285.44, representing a refund  of notional overpayments  she wouldnt 
have made if the two interest rate products detailed in the background section  above  had 
been applied  to her mortgage;  
pay Miss E interest at 8% simple* on each notional overpayment  from the date it was 
made to the eventual  date of settlement and
pay Miss E £300 compensation for her time and trouble.
*If Nationwide  considers  it should deduct basic rate income tax from the interest element of 
my award, it may do but must also provide Miss E with the relevant tax certificate.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN47420633CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  Miss Es mortgage with Nationwide Building Society.  Miss E says Nationwide  
didnt do enough  to help her when she was struggling  financially due to long-term health problems. 
background
Briefly, Miss E took the mortgage out in 2006  with a lender  Ill call C. The mortgage was on a capital 
repayment basis,  repayable  over 30 years, and on a fixed rate of 4.99% until July 2030.  As is usual 
practice on fixed rate mortgages,  and early repayment  charge (ERC)  was payable if the mortgage 
was repaid during the fixed-rate period. Unusually, though,  the contract included  a provision for the 
mortgage to be repaid without an ERC  being incurred  in every alternate year from 2011 onwards.
In 2009, Miss E was diagnosed  with a life-threatening condition hand was forced to give up working 
permanently. Since then,  her sole source of income, including assistance with her mortgage 
payments, has been the Department for work and Pension (DWP). To make  the mortgage more 
affordable, it was switched to interest-only in 2011. 
In 2013, the mortgage was taken over by Nationwide,  and as part of that transfer, Nationwide 
removed any ongoing  liability for an ERC  on the fixed rate. Meanwhile, Miss E continued to make  her 
payments, with DWP assistance, but always with some difficulty.  She did slip into modest amounts  of 
arrears from time to time,  which were  addressed  with payment arrangements. In February 2015, 
Nationwide recommended Miss E seek independent advice on her financial difficulties. 
Miss E contacted Nationwide again at the beginning  on 2019 and this time was referred  to one of its 
mortgage advisers, who arranged for her to go onto a new deal;  a two-year tracker  with an effective 
rate of 1.84%,  running from 1 February 2019. The gist of Miss Es complaint is that she should have 
been offered  something similar  when  shed reported her difficulties much earlier.
Nationwide rejected  the complaint, and our adjudicator wasnt persuaded  it should be upheld either. 
He concluded that since removal of the ERC in 2013, Miss E had been free to request a new deal if 
she wanted  one, but Nationwide wasnt obliged to suggest  it to her. Miss E asked for her complaint  to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im minded  to determine this complaint differently 
from the adjudicator.  Thats because I think  Nationwide  could, and should, have done more to help 
Miss E, particularly at the beginning  of 2015.
Most lenders,  when considering making new rate deals available to borrowers with arrears histories,  
require the arrears  to be cleared in full and then the mortgage kept up to date and arrears -free for a 
minimum period  (a year is not untypical) before theyll consider offering a new rate. 
Thats because most rate deals  come with an early repayment charge (ERC)  if the mortgage ends 
during the term of the deal. If a borrower still couldnt afford the payment under  a new deal, they might 
still be at risk of the property being taken into possession  and then sold. If that happened, then the 
ERC clause would be activated resulting  in an extra amount being added  to the closing balance on 
sale. So lenders typically guard against  that risk by insisting on an arrears-free period  before 
considering a new rate deal.
I have no problem with that as a starting point;  but everything has a context. Its true that lenders 
arent obliged to point borrowers in the direction of new deals; but that doesnt mean  they cant , or that 
Ref: DRN47420634they shouldnt ever. Lenders have to consider  context  and individual circumstances in all cases, and 
sitting at the back of all this was Nationwides underlying obligation  to treat Miss E fairly. 
Ive looked hard at her mortgage statements, and it does seem that her arrears  were  always relatively 
modest amounts,  and frictional in nature;  that is, largely down to mismatches in the amounts and 
timings of payments.  That is not uncommon when  a consumer is reliant on an outside agency such  as 
the DWP  (and to be clear, I imply  no criticism of the DWP in making  that observation  its just the 
nature of the beast).
The impression I get  and the impression  I think Nationwide should have got  is of Miss E as 
someone whose finances  were tight but by sheer hard work and determination,  kept her head above 
water over a long period of time. Seen  in that context,  I think  Miss Es situation was one where 
Nationwide might  reasonably have shown some flexibility and imagination  in its response to her 
approach at the beginning on 2015.
Rather than simply referring her for external advice  not an unreasonable thing to do in itself  I think  
Nationwide had the scope  to do more itself to help her, by offering her the opportunity to switch  to a 
new rate in February 2015, much as it did four years later. 
The deal Nationwide arranged  in 2019 was a tracker rate which, unlike a fixed  rate, doesnt have an 
ERC. I dont  know if Nationwide  was offering tracker rates in February  2015, but even  if it wasnt, I 
think Nationwide could reasonably have inferred  from Miss Es payment record at the time that the 
risk of possession (bringing with the extra  liability  of an ERC on a fixed  rate) was low.
I think  a fair way to resolve Miss Es complaint  is for Nationwide to give Miss E the lowest fee-free 
two-year fixed  (or tracker) rate it had as at 1 February 2015. It should  then do the same  from 1 
February 2017, to expire at the end of January 2019 and dovetail into the current tracker  deal. 
In response to this provisional decision Nationwide should send me the lists of rates it had available at 
those two times, indicating the ones it has selected each time. It should  re-calculate Miss Es 
mortgage as if those  rates  had been applied since 1 February 2015. 
This will mean that Miss E (supported in part by DWP payments) has made overpayments  to the 
mortgage since  2015.  In response to this provisional  decision, Nationwide should make  two 
calculations:
The current  balance on Miss Es mortgage if those two fixed (or tracker) rates  had been 
applied and the extra amounts Miss E has paid each month had been treated as 
overpayments to reduce the balance; and
The current  balance on Miss Es mortgage if those two fixed (or tracker) rates  had been 
applied and the extra amounts Miss E has paid were not treated as overpayments  but instead 
are refunded to Miss E. For this calculation Nationwide should also say how much the refund 
would amount to, adding simple annual interest of 8% to each monthly  overpayment  running 
from the date of the overpayment  to the date of calculation.
Once I have received those figures, I will share them  with Miss E. She will then have the choice of 
those two options   using the overpayments to reduce her balance,  or having  them refunded to her. 
I think  its also important to recognise the additional upset Ive found was caused by Miss E having to 
pay more each month for the last four years than she needed to, despite asking for help. The sum I 
have in mind  to compensate her for that is £300.
Ref: DRN47420635my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my provisional decision  is that I intend,  subject to the further submissions  
from the parties, to uphold this complaint. If I do so, I will direct Nationwide Building Society to make  
the calculations Ive set out above and either:
backdate new interest rates to 1 February 2015 and use the overpayments to reduce  Miss Es 
mortgage balance*; or
backdate new interest rates to 1 February 2015 and refund the overpayments to Miss E, 
adding simple annual interest of 8%.**
In addition, I intend to direct  Nationwide Building Society to pay Miss E £300 compensation.
*If Miss E has any concerns about how this option might  impact on any ongoing  entitlement to 
payments from the DWP, she may wish to seek independent guidance,  for example from her local 
Citizens Advice Bureau.
**If Nationwide considers  it should deduct basic rate income tax from the interest element  of my 
award, it may do but must also provide Miss E with the relevant  tax certificate.
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 28 October 2019,  or sooner if both parties confirm 
theyve said and provided  everything they want in response  to this provisional decision. Neither party 
need repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4742063