K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2005 
alongside a hire-purchase  agreement. The policy provided accident, sickness  and life cover.  
Mr S says First Response  Finance  Ltd mis-sold him the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr S says he was led to believe the PPI was part of the hire-purchase  agreement based on 
the way it was presented to him. And so he didnt know he had the option to say no to the 
policy. 
The PPI was sold over the phone, but unfortunately due to the length of time thats passed 
since theres no call recording for me to listen to. But First Response has provided a copy  of 
the call script which it says recorded what  Mr S was asked at the time and the answers  he 
gave during the call. And in the absence of a call recording, this is the best evidence  
available. In this Ive seen that the sales person was instructed to present the PPI as 
optional and ensure Mr S agreed to the policy before adding  it to his account.  This also 
shows that three products were recommended to Mr S, and he chose  to take out two of 
these  so I think he knew  these were optional extras.  
Ive also seen a copy of the credit  agreement which wouldve been signed  by Mr S before 
the credit  facility was released. This shows  PPI listed  under a section called Optional 
Insurance and Other  Products. So if Mr S didnt realise the PPI was optional  during the call, 
or if he didnt agree  to it, I think he wouldve questioned it before signing the agreement. 
 
So overall, I think First Response made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and 
that he chose  to take it out  although I can understand  why he cant  remember this.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, including the demands and needs  notes,  I think First 
Response advised  Mr S to take out the PPI. As a recommended  sale,  it had to check that 
the PPI was right for him  and based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the 
PPI cover and he seems to have  had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information First Response gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  I dont think the cost of the policy was made clear to Mr S during the initial 
call. But the cost of the policy was explained in the statement of price  that was sent to Mr S 
before he signed  the agreement to accept  the terms of the credit and attached insurances. 
This listed the amount of the premium, the interest  payable on the premium and the total 
cost. So I think Mr S would have understood how much the PPI would cost if he kept the 
policy for its full term. And given  how long the policy could have paid out for, if Mr S made  a 
successful claim  he couldve  got back quite a bit more than he paid for it. 
Ref: DRN47014002As I explained above, I think  Mr S chose to take the PPI out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. It also seems like it would have been  useful  for him if he had been  too ill to 
work.  So I dont think better  information about  the PPI would have put Mr S off taking out the 
cover.
Mr S wouldve  got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the policy  
early. I dont  know if First Response  thought  about  this when it recommended the policy.  But 
I havent seen  anything to suggest Mr S thought hed repay the loan early. So I dont think  
this meant  the policy wasnt right for him.
 
my final decision
So for the reasons Ive outlined in this decision,  I dont think  the PPI was mis-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4701400