K820x#14complaint
Due to an administrative error on the application  form by their Independent Financial Adviser  
(IFA), Mr and Mrs T (the consumers) are not jointly named on their investment bond.
They complain that despite attempts to get Zurich Assurance Ltd to rectify the situation, it 
has failed to do so and explain why. 
background
In June 1996, the consumers were sold an Allied Dunbar Investment Bond. The consumers 
thought the bond  was arranged so that they were both the legal owners and the 
beneficiaries of it. But as a result of an error by their IFA an incorrect  box being  ticked on 
the application form  it was arranged  in only Mrs Ts name, as the sole legal and beneficial  
owner. 
Zurich says Mrs T is entitled to the whole beneficial interest and that the legal and beneficial 
title cant be split. However, the beneficial interest  is held in trust for them both equally.  But 
the consumers  are unhappy and feel Zurich was wrong to deny the validity of their amended  
deed of assignment.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
Regardless of what the consumers may have intended in 1996, Mrs T was the sole 
owner and beneficiary of the bond.
Despite Mr T having contributed towards the bond, he still didnt have any rights.  
An appropriate deed of assignment would need  to be completed  not the one 
provided/suggested by Zurich which should only be used when gifting.   
Because the consumers amended Zurichs  form themselves, Zurich wasnt  wrong to 
refuse to accept it. 
The consumers disagreed with the adjudicators  view. In short  they say:
Theyre still unhappy that the bond only belongs to Mrs T. 
Whilst in law the owner of property  can hold it in trust for someone  else,  legal and 
beneficial interests arent  necessarily  held together. 
Zurich is wrong not to disclose any exemption that would  allow Mrs T to hold the 
bond as trustee.
Mrs T wasnt gifting  the bond to Mr T when they purchased the bond in equal  shares. 
Its unfair that he now gets nothing.  
They dont understand why Zurich  is being  so difficult and fails to explain how they 
can sort out their issue. 
The option of going to court to sort out this issue could be costly and time consuming.  
Its something theyd rather not do unless they have to.   
The adjudicator said that whilst property could be held for someone else,  the bond  wasnt 
placed in trust. So, on Mrs Ts death,  as the sole owner and beneficiary of the bond, the 
proceeds would go to her estate, regardless of her and Mr Ts intention  at the point of sale or 
arrangement subsequently.  
In summary,  the consumers made  the following key observations:  
Ref: DRN49412842Mr T still has a beneficial interest  in the bond. 
Theyd agreed between themselves that the cost and benefit would be shared 
equally. 
If person A owns legal title to some  property, and has a legal obligation to apply the 
benefit of the property  for B, then A is trustee  and B is the beneficial  owner  of the 
property. No formal  deed or document is required. 
There wasnt a dispute  about Mr Ts contribution or the error by their IFA which  led to 
this situation,  the issue is simply Zurich  not being able to rectify  the situation,  in line 
with the principles of law and fairness.   
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  the consumers say, Im not 
satisfied that Zurich has done anything  wrong in the circumstances by not being able to 
arrange the bond so that its jointly owned by the consumers. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise the consumers strength  of feeling about this matter.  
Theyve provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  they wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by them and Zurich, and reach what I think  is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision  based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Its important for me to reiterate that as a result of the application made by the consumers 
IFA  who ticked the wrong box  Mrs T ended up as the sole legal owner  and beneficiary of 
the bond, with her and Mr T as the lives assured, even though this wasnt  what  theyd 
intended at the time.  
I note the mistake isnt of Zurichs doing. It merely processed the application as instructed, 
and didnt know that the application wasnt actually as the consumers had intended. 
So, by doing  what it was asked to do, and not double checking with the consumers (which  I 
dont think it was obliged  to) I dont  think  Zurich  is responsible for this situation  or the 
consequences of it.  
Ref: DRN49412843So, in answer to the central question  that Im obliged to consider in virtually all complaints  
 what has Zurich done wrong and what can it do to make it right? The answer has to be that 
it hasnt done  anything wrong,  so doesnt have to do anything to make  things right.  But 
nevertheless is doing  what  it can to assist the consumers to get what  they want.  
It seems  Zurich  can only assist if Mrs T wanted to gift the bond but not if she and Mr T want 
to legally jointly own the bond.  Thats why Zurichs  form  even with the ad hoc amendments 
by the consumers  couldnt be accepted.  On balance,  I dont  think it was wrong to refuse 
the form in the circumstances.   
It seems  to me, what might appear to the consumers to be a straightforward solution  to the 
problem isnt necessarily  the case.  Given that the bond was only set up in Mrs Ts sole name 
 as the legal owner   the only practical  solution  is a deed of assignment, organised through  
a solicitor. 
I appreciate the consumers points about  ownership  and benefit,  as well as what the 
adjudicator says about the trust issue. I dont think what either  party is suggesting is 
necessarily incorrect or at odds with each other.  
In the consumers example, where person A owns property, and holds it for the benefit of 
person B, and is under a legal obligation  to do so  probably under trust  thats  where the 
property will go to, on person As death.  In this instance any additional legal deed of 
assignment or document  is unlikely to be necessary.  
Its also not necessary  that person A legally  owns the property, person X can set up a trust 
so that person Y holds  the property for the benefit of person Z, for any number of reasons.  
But if person  A owned property, and only intended to hold it for the benefit  of person B, or 
thats what theyd  agreed,  but without  any legal obligation in place that would require this to 
be done  such  as a trust  the property would most likely go to person As estate on their 
death.   
I dont think Zurich is deliberately trying  to make things difficult  for the consumers, or 
preventing them from getting what they want.  I just dont  think its in Zurichs gift to do it. I 
think its more likely  than not Zurich wouldve resolved this situation so that the bond was 
jointly owned by the consumers, if it could.  
It seems  to me the suggestion  by the adjudicator is a sensible  and reasonable one. If the 
consumers still wish to amend the bond  so that theyre both legal owners, the option is for 
Mrs T to assign  the bond to both of them jointly, using a deed of assignment drawn up by a 
solicitor. 
I agree  with the adjudicator that the consumers wont  be able to do this using the form sent 
by Zurich. I note the consumers agree  that theres no intention  for Mrs T to gift the bond to 
Mr T, so for that reason  the particular form from Zurich is not correct. 
I appreciate the consumers will be unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
adjudicator. Furthermore,  I realise my decision isn't what they want to hear.  But on the face 
of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint  and give them  what they want.  
my final decision
Ref: DRN49412844Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 August  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4941284