K821x#15complaint
A company which Ill refer to as B complains that The Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) unfairly 
declined a claim under Bs commercial property insurance policy.
Ms C is a director  of B and brings the complaint on Bs behalf.  They  are represented by a 
third party, however for ease I will refer only to Ms C and B.
background
B purchased a property in 2016  with the intention  of renovating it and changing the 
propertys use to a rental  property, however  due to ongoing planning issues the property 
remained unoccupied  and unfurnished. During this time, B had the benefit of a commercial 
property insurance  policy  with Lloyds and to satisfy the conditions  of that policy, appointed a 
third party to attend and manage  the property  while  it was unoccupied.
In March 2017 the property was broken into and set alight. The fire caused  extensive 
damage to the property  and was attended by the fire brigade. Following this, Lloyds 
commissioned a forensic investigator to report on the matter.  The forensic investigator 
concluded that the fire was deliberately set by arsonists  a matter which  isnt in dispute.
However the forensic investigator also concluded  that the likely point of entry  for the 
arsonists was through the garage  doors, which it believes were unlocked.  The forensic 
investigator spoke to the company managing the property,  who said at the time of the loss 
they only had keys for the front and back doors of the property, and that they hadnt  checked 
the garage and whether it was locked  as a result. As it is a condition of the policy  that all 
doors and windows are securely fastened and locked for cover to be in operation,  and it 
didnt think this condition  had been  met, Lloyds declined the claim.
Ms C didnt agree with its decision. In summary she said that Lloyds hadnt carried  out a 
thorough investigation and that the condition had been met as she had employed a third 
party to check the property and ensure all entrances and exits were locked. 
Ms C also referred to a note from the fire brigade which  mentions the front door being  
unlocked. And she says that ultimately  the claim can only be declined for a breach of the 
condition where  the breach increased the risk of the loss  and as the intruders  seemingly 
broke in to steal copper pipework and commit arson, this would have happened regardless 
of whether any doors or windows  were  locked. Ms C feels the perpetrators  would have 
entered the property through any means  necessary.  And she says that the garage door is 
likely to have been opened by the arsonists  as an exit point,  rather  than it being unlocked in 
the first place.
On 4 March 2021,  I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said:
I have considered  the arguments  put forward by Lloyds and I can understand its position. 
The relevant  condition precedent states  that for unoccupied  buildings,  the policyholder  must 
take all reasonable precautions to secure  the building against entry to intruders, including 
making sure all doors and windows are securely  fastened and locked. I think this condition 
is clear and there doesnt appear to be any dispute about that. 
Ref: DRN43425542So, Ive then gone on to consider whether there  is sufficient evidence that there has been a 
breach of the condition precedent. When seeking to rely on a breach of condition to decline 
a claim Lloyds needs to show  that the condition was most likely breached  and that the 
breach was material to the loss.
The evidence in this case is conflicting  and where thats the case,  Ive considered  what  I 
believe to be more  likely on the balance of probabilities. And having done so, Im not 
satisfied Lloyds has done enough  to evidence that there has been a breach.
As above, Lloyds appointed a forensic  investigator to look into the loss. And, on the face of 
it, the forensic investigators  report states that there  is no evidence of forced  entry at any of 
the doors or windows at the property. And he said he was able to open  the garage  door 
without keys when  he visited the property a few days after the fire. I can see why Lloyds 
might have had concerns  about the garage  door being unlocked  given this information. It 
suggests the perpetrators had been  able to access the property without any kind of force, 
but instead pulled open and walked in through the garage door. 
However, I dont think Lloyds has shown this was more  likely than not an unlocked entrance  
point. Ive explained why I think this below.
The forensic investigator Lloyds appointed did interview someone from the property 
management firm tasked  with checking Bs property was secure. And I think  this was 
reasonable, given its likely the property  management firm was the last to attend the property 
before the break in. But the forensic investigator chose not to interview the property  
management agent who had actually attended the property five days  prior to the loss. 
The person  the forensic officer spoke to was an agent from a different branch   who was 
standing in for the usual agent, as they were on annual leave at that time. The forensic 
investigator says this agent told him they werent  aware of the garage at the property and 
didnt have a key for the garage  doors.  Im not satisfied this was sufficient  to suggest the firm 
didnt check the garage doors normally, given this person didnt work at the branch from 
which the property  was looked after, and didnt have a prior relationship  with the building.
I think it would have  been reasonable for the investigator to talk to the actual person that 
visited the property.  Given the above  person interviewed wasnt in regular attendance of the 
property, was from a different branch  of the firm, and wasnt the person that attended before 
the loss, I dont think relying on these comments provides persuasive evidence  of the 
situation with the property  prior to the loss. I also note no contemporaneous  notes of this 
interview have been  provided.
The regular agent that did usually visit the property has confirmed Ms Cs version  of events  
that it did have  keys to the garage and was aware there  was a garage on site, which it 
checked when  it visited.
Ive also reviewed the checklists completed showing  the checks carried out on the property 
by Bs appointed  agents leading up to the fire. Five days before the fire, the property  
management company  attended the property and completed a checklist. On it, the question  
states Are all entrance doors locked on departure?. Yes is then circled next to it, indicating  
that the property  management company checked  all entrance  doors on departure.
Ref: DRN43425543Bs representative has also provided a signed statement from the agent who regularly 
checked the property confirming that he had checked the garage doors and they were  
locked and secured  in the days leading up to the fire. Lloyds hasnt  provided  any firm 
evidence to dispute what the agent  has said here,  or to show  its likely  anyone  came to the 
property and unlocked  the garage door after the check  made,  and prior to the fire. So, as this 
agent was likely to be the last person at the property before the intruder, I find his testimony 
to be more persuasive than the previous agent  the investigator spoke to. And this agent 
does give persuasive  evidence the garage door was locked prior to the loss.
In addition to this, from reviewing the file, I can see the forensic investigator initially  noted 
that the fire brigade, when  attending,  had broken into the property via the back door to gain 
entry. This suggested the back door was locked  at the time the perpetrator  entered the 
property. And again, suggested it was likely the only way those who set fire to the property 
could have got in was through  the unlocked garage.
But the emergency services werent  the ones  to force the back  door. The forensic  
investigator noted he had made a mistake in this assumption. The fire brigade had entered  
through the front door of the property which was already  unlocked,  not the back. So, this 
raises a question as to whether the perpetrators entered  the property not through an 
unlocked garage  door but forced  their way into the property  via another entry point.
After learning this, no further investigations appear to have  been  carried  out in regard to the 
security of the property   including the back door and whether this area was perhaps  how 
the perpetrators got into the property. And therefore, whether other unlocked points were 
unlocked for exit rather than entry purposes. So I dont think  Lloyds has fully explored how 
the perpetrator entered the property and on balance I dont think it has shown that it is more 
likely that the garage door was left unlocked.
Lloyds decision to decline the claim seems to have  been reached on the basis of several 
assumptions, many of which  Ms C and her agents have been able to raise  doubt over. And 
Ive seen no actual  evidence that the condition precedent was breached. In addition to this, I 
have considered whether there  is anything  more I reasonably could have  expected B to do in 
order to meet the wording of the condition. B has taken reasonable steps to ensure the 
policy condition is met - she has employed a management company to check  the property 
and Lloyds has been provided with a checklist from the property management  company  
confirming all internal  doors and windows were secured.
So taking all of this into account, Im not satisfied that Lloyds have sufficiently evidenced 
that there  has been a breach of the unoccupancy condition precedent. And it follows that I 
dont think it has acted  reasonably in declining  the claim.
Ms Cs representative responded to say it accepts  the provisional decision. Lloyds 
responded to say it didnt agree and asked me to reconsider its previous comments   but 
didnt provide any further comments on my decision.  So the complaint has been passed  
back to me to decide.
Ref: DRN43425544my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that the complaint should be upheld.
Lloyds has asked me to reconsider its previous comments to me from its underwriter, which 
I have done. In those comments, Lloyds has outlined that it remains of the opinion  that 
unsecured garage  doors were the likely  point  of entry and, as such, there  was a breach of 
the condition precedent  which caused  the loss.
However much of the evidence raised  relates to the testimony given by the agent from 
Ms Cs property management company, which I have already considered. The agent that 
provided the testimony wasnt the agent that attended the property days  before the fire. And 
Im not satisfied that the garage doors  being open  after the fire is sufficient evidence to show  
they were open  before  the fire and as such,  that B breached the condition precedent.
So, as neither party has provided  any new comments or evidence for me to consider, I see 
no reason to depart from my previous findings. I remain of the opinion that I dont think  
Lloyds has sufficiently evidenced that there has been a breach of the unoccupancy condition 
precedent. So it follows that I dont think it has acted  reasonably in declining  the claim.
Putting things  right
Lloyds should  put things  right by doing the following:
Reconsider the claim  under the remaining terms of the policy;
Pay B a total of £300 compensation for the inconvenience caused to it
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about The Society  of Lloyds, who should  put 
things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C on behalf  of 
B to accept  or reject  my decision before 27 April 2021.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4342554