K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Barclays Bank UK plc closed  their accounts and placed a CIFAS 
marker against Mr As name. CIFAS is the UKs fraud alert service.  
background
In May 2017  Mr and Mrs A received a payment into their joint account with Barclays. The 
sending bank said that its customer (a relative of Mr and Mrs A) had disputed  the payment  
and that it believed it was fraudulent. 
Barclays closed all of Mr and Mrs As accounts  with immediate effect and recorded  a CIFAS 
marker. In or about October  2018 Mr and Mrs A complained, first to Barclays  and then to this 
service. Shortly  after that, Barclays said it had confirmation from the bank that sent the 
money in May 2017 that the payment was no longer disputed. It had, therefore, arranged for 
the removal of the CIFAS marker.  
Mr and Mrs A asked  however that we continue to consider their complaint. One of our 
investigators looked at it and expressed the view that, whilst the CIFAS  marker had been 
removed, the bank ought to pay Mr A £200  in recognition of the trouble hed been put to. The 
investigator thought  Barclays  could have  done  more to investigate  the circumstances of the 
payment at the outset. He noted  that Mr A had had to make  different arrangements  for his 
finances, including obtaining help from family members. 
Barclays didnt object  to the investigators  recommendations, which  I take to mean 
acceptance of them.   
Mr and Mrs A didnt  accept those recommendations, however, and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case. They  thought more compensation was merited.  And Mrs A felt 
that she should be compensated too; the investigator indicated that any payment should  be 
made to Mr A, since  the CIFAS  marker  had been  against his name.        
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill consider first of all who  if anyone   should  receive any compensation I might award. On 
this point I dont  agree with the investigator. This complaint arises from the banks wider 
actions in respect of a joint account,  not just the placing of a CIFAS marker against  Mr As 
name. So Im not limited  to making an award  to him alone. 
The investigator found that the sending bank had contacted Barclays on two occasions only 
 when it was told that the payment was fraudulent and when  it was told that its customer no 
longer wanted  to pursue  the matter. I agree with those findings; theres no evidence that 
there was any other contact on which Barclays could  have acted. 
It appears that Mr and Mrs A resolved  the issue of the payment with the family member 
involved. Like the investigator, Im satisfied  that Barclays acted promptly  once it was aware  
that there  was no longer any dispute. But Im not persuaded that Barclays  had sufficiently 
strong evidence of wrongdoing at the outset that it was justified  in placing the marker against 
Mr As name. 
Ref: DRN47035462For these reasons, I agree that some compensation is appropriate, but I think that the figure  
of £200 suggested by the investigator  is fair in the circumstances.  
my final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Mr and Mrs As complaint, Barclays  Bank UK plc 
should pay them £200 in recognition of the inconvenience to which theyve been put. Under  
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mr and Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2020. 
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4703546