K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained about the service she says she received  from The National Farmers 
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited  (NFU) when she sought  assistance under the 
breakdown assistance part of her policy. 
All references to NFU in my decision include the roadside assistance provider. NFU is the 
underwriter of the breakdown assistance part of Mrs Hs car insurance policy.
background
Mrs H called NFU for assistance on two occasions in February and March 2019   due to a 
flat tyre. She was at home for the first incident   but not for the second.  
Mrs H cancelled both requests within 20 and 30 minutes respectively of her initial  calls.  She 
was unhappy  with the estimated wait time NFU gave her. Mrs H was fortunately  able to 
resolve the issue on both occasions. 
Mrs H complained to NFU. She said it had failed to deliver  the service  it promised.  Mrs H 
wanted NFU to pay her compensation  of £200.
NFU said that due to high volumes in the area on each occasion, it said it could take 90 
minutes to reach Mrs H. In the second call  because Mrs H explained that she needed to 
pick up her children  Mrs H said the agent  looked to give an updated estimated time of 
arrival (ETA) of 20 minutes. As Mrs H cancelled the call outs,  NFU said it didnt have  the 
opportunity to try and improve on its ETA and assist Mrs H. 
Our investigator thought that NFU had acted reasonably. Although Mrs H told us she 
expected NFU to reach her within 20-30 minutes, he explained  that Mrs Hs policy  doesnt  
provide a timescale for an agent to attend.  
Mrs H didnt agree. So the case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Mrs Hs policy with NFU provides breakdown assistance. Its provided  its notes  for each  
breakdown. For ease, Ill refer to the February  incident as the first call out  and the March 
incident as the second call out. 
Mrs H called for assistance for the first incident at 12.28. She was at home. The notes show 
that at the time there were high volumes  in the area. The ETA for roadside  assistance was 
between 3 to 4 hours  and for assistance from home the ETA was 5-6 hours. However, 
NFU aimed to reach  Mrs H within  90 minutes. 
Mrs H cancelled the call out request  at 12.48  as shed  managed  to make her own 
arrangements. However, she was unhappy with the service provided.  
Ref: DRN49433342Mrs H called again for assistance in March 2019.  This was at 16.54. The notes read that 
there were again high volumes in the area and so the ETA was between  2 and 3 hours. 
NFU told Mrs H it aimed to reach her within 90 minutes. But when Mrs H explained that she 
needed to pick up her children, she says NFU said it would aim to reach her in 20 minutes. 
Mrs H said that she received help nearby  and because NFU didnt arrive within 20 
minutes, she cancelled  the call out. NFUs notes show this happened at 17.26. 
Mrs H believes  she didnt get the service she was promised. She says that her policy  
provides emergency  breakdown cover  and so by its very definition  this should  mean  it 
reaches her within 20-30 minutes.  She feels NFU has misled  her as it doesnt  prioritise  a 
breakdown on a quiet road as an emergency. 
Mrs H believes  it should mention that roadworks and other  delays might impact  on its ETA in 
its policy  as this leads to false expectations. 
During the second callout, Mrs H says she was given inconsistent  information. She wanted 
to listen to the call recordings as she doesnt  believe we have considered  the full picture. 
We havent obtained the recordings of the calls. The investigator explained to Mrs H that she 
was free to contact  NFU to request the recordings.  Mrs H believes we have been  biased 
because we havent done this. She feels weve reached a view without solid evidence.
We take a view in each case on what evidence we require in order to investigate a 
complaint. In this case, we dont dispute the issues at the heart of Mrs Hs complaint. Shes 
unhappy that NFU failed  to arrive within  a reasonable  period of time  as she expected. The 
notes provided by the business  along with Mrs Hs account of what happened   are 
enough for us to be able to consider whether NFU acted reasonably. 
The website of the breakdown cover provider says that it takes them on average  30 minutes 
to respond to a call out. But I dont think this means that its contractually obliged  to reach 
Mrs H within  30 minutes of a call out. And I also think its reasonable to consider unforeseen 
issues such as high volumes in the area depending  on when a customer calls.  I think this is 
why theres an average time given on the website. Some responses to callouts take less  or 
more time  depending on factors outside  of the providers  control.  And Ive also kept in mind 
the fact that the times given to reach Mrs H were  estimates.
If Mrs Hs policy gave a timescale for NFU to reach her  and NFU failed  to reach her within  
those timescales  then I would consider  the possibility that NFU had failed to provide the 
service Mrs H expected under her policy. And Id consider the distress  and inconvenience 
caused to Mrs H as a result in line with our approach.
But Im only able to consider  what happened and if NFU acted within  the terms of the policy.  
So I cant make  a finding that NFU acted unreasonably  because I dont know how long it 
would have taken  an agent to reach Mrs H  had she not cancelled.
I appreciate that Mrs H feels NFU should  have reached her within half an hour of each  call 
out. But this wasnt  possible  and I dont think NFU misled Mrs H. 
So in this case, I cant conclude that NFU acted unreasonably.  I think  it dealt with Mrs Hs 
callout requests in line with the policy. As Mrs H cancelled both callouts within  half an hour, I 
dont think NFU needs to compensate her for failing to provide a service to her.
Ref: DRN49433343my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4943334