K821x#15complaint
Miss R says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Miss R took out in 2002.  It was added to her 
account when  she applied in-store.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Rs case. 
Ive decided this PPI policy was mis-sold, because I dont think  FICL  gave  Miss R clear  
enough information about it.
Miss R had a medical condition which wouldnt  have  been covered, and she couldnt  claim 
for anything  that resulted from that condition either. So she couldnt  have  claimed on the 
policy for everything she mightve expected  to be able to. Miss Rs condition had caused her 
to take time off work,  and wouldve been the most likely condition  to make her claim.
So I think this wouldve mattered to Miss R. But I cant see that FICL gave her any clear 
information about the exclusion  for pre-existing conditions. If FICL had given her clear  
enough information, then I think Miss R probably  wouldnt  have  bought the policy.
putting things right
FICL should put Miss R in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken  out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Miss R would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss R owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss R made a successful  claim  under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
Ref: DRN46902302B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss R would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% simple a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Miss R would  have owed each month without  PPI  she 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Miss R paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest until the point when Miss R 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should again  be 8% 
simple a year.
D.FICL should tell Miss R what  its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Miss R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4690230