K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid, lent to him irresponsibly. 
He  contends that unaffordable short term lending caused a debt spiral,  leading to repeat
borrowing and according a worsening of a financial situation which  was already poor.
background
Using the information from QuickQuids records I have created this table which gives  brief 
details of the approved loans. Mr P applied  for further loans after repaying loan 4 but these 
were either refused or cancelled so they do not show here.  I refer to the loans by the 
numbers in this table. 
loandate 
approvedprincipalnumber  of 
repaymentshighest  
repayment 
(rounded)date repaid
1 13 April 2017 £400 1 £515 19 May 2017
2 1 June 2017 £450 2 £551 14 July 2017
3 30 July 2017 £850 2 £1,040 8 September  2017
49 September 
2017£850 2 £1,040extended to 
1 December 2017
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and though that QuickQuid should put things 
right for Mr P in relation  to Loans  3 and 4. Mr P accepted  that opinion  and did not add 
anything further  to the complaint. QuickQuid  disagreed and so the complaint remains 
unresolved for Loans 3 and 4. 
The complaint has been passed  to me for a decision in relation to the unresolved parts 
which are Loans  3 and 4. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN40604602But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a significant  proportion of Mr Ps income was needed to repay 
the second instalment for Loans 3 and 4. He had declared to QuickQuid that his monthly net 
income for these loans  was £2,069 and his total monthly living expenses were for £1,027.  
That would have  left him with about  £1,042 left and with repayments due of £1,040 I think  its 
likely QuickQuid would have realised  that Mr P was not able to afford  these loans easily.
QuickQuids response  to our adjudicators view included a table which I think includes wrong 
information: the figure it has for customer  stated other credit  commitments  is £0.00 
whereas QuickQuids records show that for Loans 3 and 4 these were declared by Mr P as 
being £225. So factoring  the £225 into QuickQuids recent table shows  Mr P would not have 
been able to afford these loans.
Ref: DRN40604603putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr P paid on Loans 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement ;
remove any negative information  about Loans 3 and 4 from Mr Ps credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr P a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ps complaint in part. CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as QuickQuid,  should do as I have set out above for Mr P. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.  
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4060460