K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (the bank) mis-sold  him a fixed interest  rate 
commercial loan. 
background
In 2005 Mr M borrowed around  £1m from the bank for business  purposes. There  was a fixed  
rate loan for around  £700k and a variable  rate loan for around £300k. 
The fixed  rate loan was for 15 years, with the interest rate fixed  for the first ten years. Break  
costs would potentially  be payable if Mr M wished or needed to repay the loan or part of it 
during the ten year period.
The ten year period  passed without Mr M paying  or incurring  any break costs and without 
him approaching the bank with any enquiry about repaying, or any request to repay,  the loan 
or any part of it. 
More recently and with the help of a representative,  Mr M has complained to the bank about 
the fixed rate loan.  He says the bank advised  him to take it out but without properly 
explaining the implications. He says the loan was inappropriate for him and his business as, 
among other things,  he required flexibility  to repay  if need be. He says that if hed known at 
the start how large the break costs might be, he wouldnt have  entered into the fixed rate 
loan but would instead have borrowed entirely  at the variable  rate. Mr M also criticises the 
bank for failing to disclose  to him the commission he says the bank paid to its salesforce for 
selling him the fixed rate loan.
The bank didnt  uphold  Mr Ms complaint.
Our adjudicator concluded that, while the bank hadnt adequately explained how large the 
break costs  under the fixed rate loan might  be, this didnt cause Mr M any loss as he would 
still have gone  ahead  with the loan  ie even  if hed known how large  the costs might  be. 
The adjudicator took note of the variable  rate loan which Mr M took out at the same time and 
which Mr M could  pay down  without  incurring any break costs,  thus providing  flexibility.  
Regarding commission,  the adjudicator  said there was no specific requirement for the bank 
to disclose how much it paid to its staff.  Mr M knew how much he was going  to pay for the 
fixed rate loan before he entered into it. There was no specific requirement  for the bank  to 
tell a consumer  what its profit  was on an individual transaction.
Mr M didnt  accept the adjudicators conclusions. Via his representative  he made the 
following points.
Mr M queried  the existence  of the variable  rate loan.
The adjudicator  hadnt dealt with the point about  advice. The bank had advised Mr M 
to take out the fixed rate loan,  against his stated preference for a variable rate loan.
The bank  had effectively scared Mr M into entering into the loan.
Inappropriate weight had been placed  on the fact that Mr M hadnt  complained  about 
the loan and break costs until a later stage  and hadnt tried to repay  the loan in the 
fixed rate period.
The contemporaneous facts and notes of the bank should  be given due weight. Mr M 
didnt want to fix the interest rate and didnt have a strong  opinion  on interest rate 
Ref: DRN42899272movements. Nor was it sensible to let an individual, as distinct from a company, enter 
into a fixed rate loan for as long as ten years, when the individual might suffer ill 
health or another change  of circumstances. 
Mr M repeated and expanded on his criticism of the bank regarding commission,  or 
loan margin as he also described it. He said there  would be a perceived  conflict  of 
interest as the salesperson had a personal interest in selling the fixed  rate product, 
but this was not disclosed to the customer.
The bank commented on Mr Ms points. 
It provided a copy of the variable rate loan agreement.
It was clear the bank  hadnt provided Mr M with any advice concerning the fixed rate 
loan.
A proper  interpretation  of the banks notes  showed Mr M wanted  a combination of 
fixed rate lending and variable  rate lending,  which is what he achieved.
The desire for some fixed  rate lending originated from Mr M, not from the bank.
The bank  hadnt been guilty of scaremongering. The bank had merely provided  Mr M 
with relevant information about possible additional costs should interest rates rise, 
allowing him to reach an informed  decision  about the basis  on which  he wished to 
proceed. 
It was legitimate for the bank,  when answering  the complaint, to point  out that the 
loan had worked entirely as foreseen, without any problems or difficulties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I too 
have reached the conclusion  that his complaint doesnt succeed. My reasons are broadly 
similar to the adjudicators. 
I should like to add the following comments.
The evidence hasnt  persuaded me the bank  gave  Mr M advice in regard to the fixed 
rate loan.  Advice would amount in the circumstances to a recommendation of a 
course of action by the bank. But as I see it, the bank gave Mr M information  on a 
range of possibilities, including borrowing all the money at a variable rate. The bank 
then expressly left it to Mr M to decide  what he wished to do. There  was no pressure 
to enter  into a fixed rate loan as far as I can tell. And the evidence  indicates that the 
idea of fixing the interest rate on at least part of the borrowings came from Mr Ms 
side, not from the bank.
As the bank wasnt in my view acting as Mr Ms adviser, it was for Mr M to decide  if it 
was prudent for him to enter  into a ten year fix. So I dont accept  that the bank had a 
duty to advise Mr M, as he was an individual, not to enter  into a fix for ten years. 
I dont agree the bank employed scare  tactics. The bank supplied Mr M with 
information about how his repayments  would rise if interest  rates rose and he was on 
the variable rate instead of the fixed rate. I think the bank was trying to be helpful  to 
Mr M. 
There was a substantial degree of flexibility  in the loan arrangements that Mr M 
entered into, as the variable rate loan could be repaid or be reduced without any 
break costs being payable.
While  the ombudsman  service  reaches its conclusions without the benefit of 
hindsight, its the case that what happens  subsequently can sometimes  reinforce the 
Ref: DRN42899273conclusions weve reached. So in this case,  the fact that Mr M demonstrably  took no 
steps to repay or reduce the fixed rate loan in the first ten years  may serve to 
reinforce the conclusion that when  he took out the loan in 2005, he had no 
demonstrable plan or intention  of repaying the loan in that period.
On the central  question, I too find that (a) the bank didnt adequately explain to Mr M, before 
he entered into the fixed rate loan,  how large  the break costs might  be if he repaid it while  
the interest rate was fixed, but also that (b) even if Mr M had had better information about 
the potential size of break  costs, he would still have entered  into the loan. I think Mr M 
carefully considered  his strategy and would  have remained content with a mix of fixed  rate 
and variable rate lending,  protecting himself against rate rises  and thus safeguarding 
affordability, while retaining some flexibility to repay without incurring any break costs.  I dont 
think he foresaw in 2005  any wish or need  to repay the fixed  rate loan before 2015.
In the circumstances, I havent found  it necessary to follow  up on a remark in the banks 
notes from 2005:  Mr M mentioned that he [had] taken a fixed rate loan before at a very high 
rate. This experience  had been off putting with regard to protecting  again  This made me 
question whether Mr M might have already been  aware how expensive it can be to exit from 
a fixed rate loan. But as it happens, I dont need to make a finding on the point. 
Finally, there is, and there  was in 2005,  no legal or regulatory requirement  for the bank to 
disclose what profit it makes on a particular commercial loan transaction,  nor to disclose how 
it rewards its staff in relation to such business.  It would be a radical step if the ombudsman  
service imposed such an obligation  unilaterally  and retrospectively, and I dont  consider  
fairness requires us to do so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4289927