K820x#14Complaint
Mr P1 has complained  that the Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Intelligent Finance) wont 
refund fraudulent transactions on his account.  It said he authorised the transactions.
Mr P2, his son, represents him.
R, a claims management company, represents  Mr P2.
Background
Intelligent Finance provides an online banking service only.  It communicates  with its 
customers by telephone and online. It has no branches.
Mr P1 is an older customer and has dementia. In 2014, he appointed his son, Mr P2, as an 
attorney under a lasting power of attorney. They didnt register  the power of attorney with 
Intelligent Finance until 2017.
Between 2012 and 2016, Mr P1 made numerous payments to businesses  in the UK and 
abroad for goods  and services. He also made payments to two money exchange agencies. 
He made  the payments by: -
logging on to his online  account and making  transfers to the payees,  and
giving  Intelligent Finance direct  instructions  over the phone to make payments to the 
payees.
After each online instruction, Intelligent Finance called him and asked him to confirm  that the 
payment was genuine.
In early 2017, Mr P2 told Intelligent Finance that he believed his father had been the victim 
of repeated fraud. He said Mr P1 had made  payments  to several  businesses  for goods and 
services, which  he didnt  receive or need.  Mr P2 said he found out the businesses  were 
bogus, after carrying out his own inquiries. He believes Intelligent  Finance shouldve known 
the businesses  were fraudulent because some of them were on an FCA list of fraudulent 
companies. He also said it shouldve taken extra care with his father  because  of his 
advanced age and illness.
Mr P2 asked  Intelligent Finance to reimburse  the fraudulent transactions.
Intelligent Finance refused. It said the transactions  were  authorised  by Mr P1 and so it didnt 
have to refund him. It said he made them  himself,  either by a foreign telegraphic  transfer, a 
faster payment  or by guaranteed same day payment (CHAPS).  It said he called its customer 
service centre with a payment instruction and it verified his identity by asking for his account 
number and sort code.  After he satisfied its security checks, it processed the payments. 
It also said it was obliged  to follow his instructions and had no reason  to doubt he could 
manage his account.  No one had told it he had dementia.  And it didnt know he had 
appointed an attorney  until 2017.  
It said it had no reason to suspect the payees were fraudulent at the time, with one 
exception. One of the receiving banks  had contacted it in March 2012  with concerns. It said 
the payees name was on a foreign banks exclusion list for suspected fraudulent  
Ref: DRN43544372transactions. It said it shared its concerns with Mr P1, but he insisted on making the payment 
anyway. It said he was prepared to take the risk and he seemed to understand the 
consequences of his actions.
Mr P2 wasnt  happy with this response and so he made a complaint to this service on his 
fathers behalf.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She concluded that Mr P1 had authorised the 
payments. And when  it warned  him about one of his payees, he still insisted  on making the 
payment, saying he would take the risk. She explained that Intelligent Finance was obliged 
to follow  his instructions,  having warned him of the risk.
She also said Intelligent  Finance  didnt know about his dementia. So, it would be unfair  to 
say it shouldve treated  him as a consumer  in vulnerable circumstances. 
Mr P2 didnt  accept our adjudicators view. He asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 1 February 2018.  I upheld  part of Mr P1 complaint. I asked 
Intelligent Finance to refund the March 2012  transaction.
In summary,  I said:
The banks internal notes show Mr P1 made  transfers and created  mandates online 
for some of the disputed transactions. The banks correspondence also shows that 
Mr P1 telephoned it directly with instructions  to make international payments by 
telegraphic transfer.
Intelligent Finance would not necessarily have known the businesses were 
fraudulent. This is because payments  are processed on the basis  of the payees 
account number,  (including IBAN), and sort code and not the payees name. Even if 
Mr P1 had told it the payees name,  it wouldnt have verified this information  at the 
time. 
Its correct  that Intelligence Finance has a duty to comply with its customers 
instructions. This is recognised industry  practice  and its implied, if not expressly  
stated, in the terms and conditions for the account as well as in the banking  code of 
conduct and the Payment Services Regulations 2009. 
However, I thought  it shouldve refused  to make the payment in March 2012. It had 
more than a suspicion  of fraud. It had some evidence the payee was on a fraud  list. 
For this reason, I thought it was fair and reasonable to reimburse the March  2012 
transaction.
I invited representations from Mr P2 and Intelligent Finance. Mr P2 didnt accept my 
provisional decision. He maintains that Intelligent Finance breached its duty of care to Mr P1. 
He would like all the disputed transactions refunded.  
Intelligent Finance hasnt responded.
This case has come back to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN43544373My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When considering what is fair and 
reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant law and regulations; regulators 
rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice;  and, where appropriate, what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
With that in mind, I shall start by setting out what I have identified  as the relevant 
considerations to deciding  what is fair and reasonable  in this case.
Relevant considerations
The disputed transactions took place between January 2012 and October  2016.  So, the 
Payment Services Regulations 2009  (the PSRs 2009)  are of particular relevance to my 
decision about what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PSRs 2009
The PSRs  2009  are relevant because they state  that account holders  will be liable for 
payments theyve authorised and banks will be liable  for unauthorised payments. So whether  
a payment has been authorised is an important  consideration when deciding  what  is fair and 
reasonable.
The relevant  provisions in these regulations are:
 Consent and withdrawal of consent
55.(1) A payment transaction is to be regarded  as having been  authorised  by the payer 
for the purposes  of this Part only if the payer has given  its consent to
(a) the execution  of the payment transaction; 
Evidence on authentication  and execution of payment transactions
60.(1) Where a payment service user
(a) denies having authorised an executed  payment transaction; or
(b) claims that a payment  transaction  has not been correctly executed,
it is for the payment service provider  to prove  that the payment transaction was 
authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment  service  providers accounts 
and not affected  by a technical breakdown or some other deficiency.
(2) In paragraph  (1) authenticated means the use of any procedure  by which  a payment 
service provider is able to verify the use of a specific payment instrument, including its 
personalised security  features.
(3) Where a payment  service user denies  having authorised an executed payment 
transaction, the use of a payment instrument recorded by the payment service provider is 
not in itself necessarily  sufficient to prove  either that
Ref: DRN43544374(a) the payment  transaction  was authorised by the payer; 
Payment service providers liability for unauthorised payment transactions
61. Subject to regulations  59 and 60, where  an executed payment transaction  was not 
authorised in accordance with regulation 55, the payment service provider must  
immediately 
(a) refund the amount  of the unauthorised payment transaction  to the payer
For the purposes of the PSRs 2009,  Intelligent Finance is the payment service provider and 
Mr P1 is the payment service user/ payer.
Were the transactions authenticated?
Where a customer denies authorising transactions, then it falls to the bank to prove that the 
transactions were  authenticated.  So first, I must  first consider whether Intelligent Finance 
has proven that the transactions were authenticated.
This was an online account.  Intelligent Finance hasnt sent us the online activity log, but it 
has sent its contact notes. The notes show that between January 2012 and August 2016,  
Mr P1 frequently  made money transfers online. He also set up new mandates  and amended  
payment instructions online. After each  instruction  to set up a new mandate or amend  an 
instruction, Intelligent Finance called him and asked him to confirm his instructions. 
Intelligent Finance has also supplied copies of ninety letters it sent him between 2012 and 
2016, each confirming his telephone instructions to make payments by telegraphic  transfers. 
It believes these are the alleged fraudulent transactions  (and not the online payments). 
Intelligence Finance has provided  me with a selection of his phone calls to the bank (there 
are over 100 calls). Ive listened  to them.  In the calls, the adviser asks him for his account  
number and card number, before proceeding to take his payment instructions. 
Based on this evidence,  I consider that the transactions were  authenticated because  he:
logged on to his online  account with his secure  details, and 
he provided his banking information when  he gave it telephone instructions.
Did Mr P1 consent to the transactions?
Mr P2 accepts that his father made the transactions  himself. Theres  no suggestion that a 
third party made the disputed transactions by gaining remote  access to Mr Ps computer or 
impersonating him on the phone. The contact notes  refer to phone calls he had with 
Intelligent Finance, during which he gave instructions to pay money to businesses and 
individuals. Again, in the calls Ive listened  to, he gives his instructions clearly  and firmly. 
In these circumstances, I am satisfied  Mr P1 consented to the transactions. 
Im afraid this means  I consider that Mr P1 authorised the transactions and that under the 
PSRs 2009, Intelligent Finance is not liable to refund him. 
Could Intelligent Finance have done  more? 
Ref: DRN43544375As part of determining what is fair and reasonable, Ive also considered whether there  was 
more Intelligence  Finance  could have done  to prevent fraud.
Mr P2 said the payments were sent to scam accounts. He found this out from his own 
inquiries. He says Intelligent Finance should  have known this and blocked  the payments.  
It replied that there was no obvious  evidence, at the time, that these were scam accounts. 
And any evidence  that exists now only became available  later.
Ive searched for the payees online but without success. Practically,  I dont think  its now 
possible to know what information  was available at the time Mr P1 made the transactions.  
But I believe  theres  another  reason  why Intelligent Finance might not have known about the 
payees.
According to industry  practice, payments are processed using the sort code and account  
number or IBAN only and not the account-holders name. Intelligent Finance wouldnt  have 
carried out any checks on the account-holders names, even though it asked Mr P1 for 
names. And listening to the calls, it seems  the names were used as a reference code for 
each transaction.  So, Im satisfied Intelligent Finance wouldnt have known that the payees  
were bogus.  
However, Im going to make an exception for the March 2012 payment. 
On 7 March 2012,  Mr P1 telephoned Intelligent Finance and instructed it to transfer  
£2,219.50 to an overseas bank account. It said the receiving bank sent it an email  to say the 
account-holders name was on a foreign banks exclusion list for suspected fraudulent  
transactions. This is recorded in its contact  notes for 8 March 2012.
Intelligent Finance subsequently  shared this information with Mr P1. It said it tried to 
discourage him from sending the payment, but he insisted on making  it, saying he was 
prepared to take the risk. So, Intelligent Finance let the payment go through. It said it was 
obliged to comply  with his payment instruction. 
I disagree. I acknowledge that its primary duty is to comply with its customers  instructions 
regarding their money. This is how the industry  works. However,  in the case  of Barclays 
Bank Plc v Quincecare Ltd [1992] 4 All ER 363, the Court of Appeal held that banks owe a 
duty of care to their customers not to comply with a payment instruction where the bank has 
reasonable grounds for believing that the payment instruction  is an attempt to defraud  its 
customer. This ruling was subsequently affirmed in a Supreme  Court judgment in the case of 
Singularis Holdings Ltd (In Official Liquidation) v Daiwa Capital Markets Europe Limited 
[2019] UKSC  50.
In this case, Intelligent Finance had more  than a mere suspicion of fraud: it had evidence 
from another bank  that the payee was on a fraud list. In these circumstances, I think it 
should have refused to make the payment. And so, I think  its fair and reasonable to ask 
Intelligent Finance to reimburse the £2,219.50. 
I note that there has been debit card fraud on Mr P1s account  in the past and that an 
unknown third party telephoned Intelligent Finance pretending to be him. Apparently, the 
cause of this was key logging  software  on Mr P1s computer, which  was fixed.  Intelligent  
Finance made corrections  to his account.  And from what I can see, he didnt lose any 
Ref: DRN43544376money. I cant  see a connection between these  earlier fraudulent  attempts on his account 
and the transactions, which he now disputes.
Vulnerability
Ive thought seriously about whether Intelligence Finance shouldve identified  Mr P1 earlier  
as a consumer  in vulnerable circumstances. 
Ive read the banks  contact notes. In September 2012, a beneficiary bank returned a 
payment. It said the account was blocked. In March 2013, another  bank returned a foreign 
payment. It advised Mr P1 to refer to the account-holder.  The notes record he was happy  
with this.
In June 2013, Mr P1 told Intelligent Finance that hed sold his timeshare. The company who 
managed the sale said it wouldnt  release the sale proceeds until hed paid its fee upfront. 
He didnt have  enough money  in his account.  Intelligence Finance  was suspicious and ran 
checks on the company.  It found it wasnt legitimate. It blocked access  to his online account 
and deactivated  his card so that he couldnt  make the payment, before it had the chance to 
talk to him. It later told him that this was an upfront fee fraud.  The notes record that Mr P1 
decided not to continue with the transaction.
Ive thought about whether Intelligent  Finance  shouldve treated Mr P1 as a vulnerable 
consumer after these  three incidents.  I must base my decision on the circumstances at the 
time and not on what I now know about him. On balance, Im afraid I dont  think his actions 
had reached the point  where it could reasonably infer that he was especially vulnerable to 
fraud. I say this for the following reasons. 
Firstly, I dont think it would have been appropriate to make  assumptions about his decision-
making abilities  based  on his age alone or a bad decision.
Secondly, I thought he was very clear in his instructions in the call recordings. He could 
answer the banks  questions  and follow the conversation. He didnt seem confused. I dont 
think it would  be fair to expect the bank staff to suspect  he might be confused or vulnerable  
just from the calls. 
Thirdly, he was making genuine transactions  at the same time and he was able to hold 
conversations with the bank about its services,  e.g. he told it he didnt need  its insurance 
policy.
 
Based on this information, Im afraid I dont think Intelligent  Finance missed an obvious  
opportunity to identify  Mr P1 as a consumer  who was in vulnerable circumstances.  
I am very sorry  about what has happened to Mr P1. And I realise this decision will be 
disappointing for him and Mr P2. But Im afraid  Intelligence Finance doesnt have to refund 
the disputed transactions if he authorised them  and, based on the evidence, I think he did.
However, I think its fair and reasonable for Intelligent Finance to refund the March 2012  
transaction for the reasons Ive given  above.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland plc should  refund  Mr P £2,219.50 together
Ref: DRN43544377with 8% simple interest from the date the money left his account to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P2 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4354437