K820x#14Complaint
Miss D complains, in summary, that HSBC UK Bank plc will not accept responsibility for a 
payment she made from her current account  with another bank that was intended for her 
HSBC credit card account but which ended up being sent to someone elses account at 
another bank.   She would like the payment, which was for £2,000, to be returned  to her.  
Miss D is represented in her complaint by her mother, Mrs D.
Background
HSBC explained  to Miss D, during a phone  call in November  2018, how she could make a 
payment to reduce the outstanding balance on her HSBC credit card account.  However, 
Miss D did not make  the payment  straightaway, and she explains that  some  days later  
she received a call from the same  HSBC adviser  giving her different  payment details.  Miss  
D used that new information to make  the payment, but the money didnt reach her HSBC 
account.  It went to a different account at another bank which wasnt  in her name, and the 
money couldnt be recovered from the person who received it.  
HSBCs position is that the bank did not make the later phone  call.  But Miss D feels unable 
to accept that; she believes she spoke to the same person  as she did the first time,  and only 
the bank would have known she hadnt made  the payment by the time of the second call.
Our investigator concluded that HSBC hadnt  had anything to do with the second phone  call.  
He considered it unlikely that its member of staff might have misused their position for 
financial gain in respect of this transaction, and he also didnt think it was reasonable for 
Miss D to have accepted   apparently unquestioningly  any new payment instructions.  So  
the investigator did not recommend that her complaint  should  be upheld.   
In asking for her complaint to be reviewed,  Mrs D (on behalf of Miss D) said  in summary:
Although the investigator concluded  that the HSBC adviser hadnt defrauded Miss D, we 
cannot  categorically  100% say that he hasnt, [we] are only assuming he hasnt.   
The individual who called her back  said I can see you have not made a payment yet.  
This proves he knew that she hadnt  [and] clearly knew  by checking  before he 
scammed her   Furthermore, he wouldnt have called her back  from a bank phone line 
because he would  have  known  that those  calls were recorded.
Miss D is confident it was the same person with whom shed originally  spoken  who called 
her back.    In addition,  its wrong  to suggest  as an employee based in the Philippines  
that the amount at stake (£2,000) would have  been relatively modest  to him, or that it 
would not have been worthwhile to run the risks of being found out/losing his job with the 
bank.  Indeed, he could have been defrauding other  customers  in a similar way.
Miss D cant  trace  the calls made to her mobile  partly  because she has since changed  
mobile provider, and partly because  she explained  that her former provider had told her 
they could only give that type of information to the Police.
Mrs D also asked the investigator to look into the ethnic background of the customer of the 
other bank  to whom  the money  was actually transferred.  However, he explained why he did 
not consider it appropriate or relevant to do so.  The investigator also added  that, although  
Mrs D had said the caller had told Miss D  in the later call  that he knew  she had not yet 
made the payment, there was limited evidence to show that that was actually said.
Ref: DRN44614792My findings
I have carefully considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide  what 
is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances  of this complaint.  I understand that 
Miss D has brought  other complaints to us about  this transaction  against the bank where  
she holds her current account, and against  the bank which received the payment.  Those  
complaints are being looked into separately; my decision  here relates solely to HSBC.
There is relatively little agreement, or indeed firm evidence, about what happened back in 
November 2018.   Whilst theres no dispute  that Miss D initially called the bank about  making  
a payment to her HSBC credit card account,  and that she subsequently made  a payment to 
an account at a different bank, thats where any agreement between the parties appears to 
end.  Miss D says she received another call from the same member  of the banks staff giving 
her updated  payment details (which she then used), but HSBC  says theres nothing to 
indicate that that individual  or, indeed, anyone else in the bank  made such  a second call.  
What this means is that, where important elements of the evidence are incomplete, 
inconclusive, or contradictory  as some are here  I need  to reach my decision  on the 
balance of probabilities; that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened  in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.   I understand that Miss D was 
a law student at the time, so Im sure shell recognise this as the appropriate civil  rather 
than criminal  test.  I do not have to be 100%  sure about what  happened;  I simply need  to 
determine what I consider  is most likely to have happened.
I can see its always possible that an individual working for the bank could have been 
involved  either  individually or as part of a group  in defrauding customers  in the way Miss 
D has described.  The investigator raised this with the bank, and it replied in some detail  
setting out why it considered it very unlikely  that the particular member of staff Miss D had 
identified had acted  fraudulently.  This was partly  because of how the banks systems 
operate  making it difficult for an individual employee to have done what  would have been 
necessary to have  obtained the relevant details and called  Miss D back from outside the 
bank whilst still appearing to be calling from within the bank  and partly  having regard to the 
member of staffs career history and track record with HSBC. 
Its also the case, as the investigator  identified,  that Miss D has not been able to provide 
anything to support  her description of the second call, including  the point about the caller  
apparently knowing  that she had not yet made the payment  to her HSBC credit  card 
account.  Whilst I accept that she has been clear  and consistent  about  all of this, it 
nevertheless remains  the case  that we only have Miss Ds word about the call and what was 
said during it.  I also share  the investigators view that the ethnic background of the account-
holder at the other bank  is, of itself, not material  to the outcome of this complaint.
After very careful consideration, therefore,  and having taken full account of everything  both 
Mrs D (on behalf of Miss D) and HSBC have said, I do not believe I can fairly conclude  on 
the balance of probabilities  that an individual working for HSBC made the second call Miss 
D has described.  I accept that a later call could have been made, but I am on balance  
unable to accept  that, if it was, it is likely  to have been made by a member of the banks staff 
such that I could  properly support Miss Ds claim that the bank should  refund to her the 
£2,000 which she explains  she paid to an account  at another  bank.  In saying this I am not 
making a finding  about what exactly did lead her to make that payment; rather, I am simply 
Ref: DRN44614793saying that I do not consider I can fairly conclude that HSBC provided her with updated, and 
incorrect, payment information leading to the loss which  she has claimed.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my Final  Decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 August 2020.
David Millington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4461479