K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains, via his representative, that Lloyds  Bank General Insurance Limited 
increased his premiums every year for his contents  insurance policy  and that hes been  
paying too much for the cover.
background
Mr Ls representative also complains  that he was mis-sold the policy  as he didnt understand 
it and it wasnt suitable for him. This complaint  will be considered  separately against  the 
intermediary who sold the policy to Mr L.
Mr Ls representative said Lloyds  should  refund him his premiums. 
Lloyds said the policy was sold face-to-face at its branch in 2012 and he held the policy  until 
2019. Lloyds said the policy  premiums were calculated correctly based on the risk and the 
cover provided, and included Insurance Premium Tax. It said annual  increases were in line 
with changes to its general rates and changes  in postcode area rates.  It said the annual 
renewal document  that it sent to Mr L was only an invite to renew the policy  and didnt have 
to be accepted.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said Lloyds had 
increased the premium  gradually over the years with inflation  from £83.59  in 2012 to 
£138.25 in 2018. She said there  werent any significant increases or exceptional 
circumstances and she thought the premiums had been calculated  correctly based on the 
risk presented and the cover provided  to Mr L.
Mr Ls representative didnt agree.  She said Mr L wouldnt have understood anything Lloyds 
would have sold to him. Mr Ls representative  requested an ombudsman review  his 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls representative said that Lloyds has increased  the premiums  unfairly  and asked if the 
premiums could be refunded as he hadnt  made a claim.
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. Within  my role I can look at whether Lloyds has treated 
Mr L fairly during the time he held his policy.
When looking at whether Lloyds has treated Mr L unfairly - I would need to satisfy  myself 
that Lloyds had unfairly increased the cost of the policy over the years. 
Even though  Mr L hasnt  successfully claimed, the cover has been  in place in order  to 
protect his contents  should he have needed to claim. Mr L did try to claim on his policy  in 
2018, but his claim fell outside of the policy terms.
Ref: DRN44210372Ive looked at the increases in Mr Ls premiums since the policy  started. Although the 
premiums went  from £83.59 in 2012 to £138.25  in 2018, the increase has been fairly  gradual 
year-on-year, as might be expected with inflation and the increases in Insurance Premium 
Tax. 
Lloyds said that it calculates the premiums for its policies  in line with the risk the customer  
presents and the cover it provides. I havent  seen  any significant increases over the years  or 
exceptional circumstances  that have impacted on the premiums, and I think  Lloyds has 
calculated Mr Ls premiums as it would for any other  customer  in his circumstances. For 
these reasons I cant say Lloyds has done  anything wrong here or that it has treated Mr L 
unfairly.
Mr L had been  with Lloyds for several  years. And if I thought  Lloyds should have realised 
Mr L wasnt the type of person who shopped  around for cheaper insurance  regularly,  and I 
thought Lloyds increased the price just because Mr L didnt  engage at renewal, that wouldnt  
be fair. But I dont think thats  the case here.  
Having looked  at Mr Ls history with Lloyds, I cant say that Lloyds Increased  Mr Ls 
premiums unfairly. So I dont think Lloyds has done  anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4421037