K820x#14The complaint  
Miss J complains  that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as 
Audi Financial Services, were wrong to take a final payment on a finance agreement  she 
had with them.
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties so I wont  repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
Ive listened  to the call Miss J had with VWFS when she made a lump  sum payment. 
In that call I think Miss J chose to make  a lump sum payment and was advised  this 
would reduce the term of the agreement  and that the lump sum would therefore be 
due within the next month or so. Miss J confirmed  she had the money  to pay for the 
car but couldnt  do so at the moment as she hadnt got the bank clicker. Having 
listened to the call I think it is likely Miss J would have been aware the balloon  
payment was likely  to be due the next month;
on that call it is clear  that the advisor took care to ensure that Miss J was aware the 
lump sum payment would be debited the next month  and that Miss J had enough in 
her account to pay it. Miss J confirmed this;
Im persuaded that its most likely  Miss J did receive the letters  from VWFS that Ive 
seen copies of and that are dated  6 and 26 February 2019. I say that because  I can 
Miss J she doesnt  dispute she had received  previous  correspondence  to the same 
address and the address appears to be the same as the one we have on record;
those letters both confirm the amount of the balloon payment and the date the 
payment will be debited. So I dont think it would be fair to suggest Miss J wasnt  
aware of the payment. Its what was agreed in her telephone  conversation  and it was 
that conversation  that was accurately summarised in the subsequent  
correspondence.
Miss J also thinks that VWFS have been  unreasonable when reporting late payments 
to her credit file whilst  this complaint has been in process. Whilst many companies 
will be prepared  to hold recovery action whilst complaints are in process this service  
isnt able to insist they do so. So I cant say VWFSs actions have been 
unreasonable. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Ref: DRN42419002Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4241900