K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold them  payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a further  advance on their mortgage in 2009. At the same time they 
bought a  PPI  policy  which wouldve helped cover  their mortgage repayments if either or 
both of them couldnt work.
 
Mr and Mrs H say they didnt know PPI had been applied,  and they had no reason to take it.
The adjudicator thought  that Mr and Mrs Hs complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs H 
disagree, so the case has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI  on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Mr and Mrs H say that they didnt know the PPI had been added.  They comment  that theyd 
never taken  PPI before so this should show that they wouldnt have taken it when they 
applied for a further advance.
I dont know why Mr and Mrs H took the PPI in 2009  but didnt in earlier years.  But from what 
Ive seen from the evidence provided  by BoS Im satisfied that they did agree  to take it and 
they did know it was optional, although  I understand why they might  not remember this.
There isnt a copy of any application form Mr and Mrs H completed for the PPI, but this isnt 
surprising given the time which has elapsed  since then.  It is often  the case that the 
application form isnt retained by the seller, but is sent directly  to the insurer to set up the 
policy.
BoS has provided a copy of the demands  and needs statement completed with Mr and Mrs 
H at the time. This shows that their requirements  for insurance to pay their mortgage in the 
event they couldnt work  were assessed.  It shows that BoS made  a recommendation for PPI 
for both Mr and Mrs H. A copy of this assessment was sent to them in July and confirmed 
that their application had been accepted and their insurance had started. I have no reason to 
believe that this letter didnt reach  Mr and Mrs H. If they hadnt agreed  to take the PPI I think  
theyd have queried it when they received this letter. 
The PPI couldnt  have been  set up without completing an application form. And there was a 
separate direct debit  mandate completed. The premiums were  collected separately to the 
mortgage payment.  So while I dont think it was likely the direct debit could have been set up 
without an agreed  mandate, in the unlikely event that this did happen  I think Mr and Mrs H 
wouldve queried the money  going out of Mr Hs account. 
Ref: DRN47858092So, on balance, on the limited information  I do have  I cant  safely say that the PPI was set up 
without Mr and Mrs Hs knowledge or consent.  I also think they knew  they had a choice  
about it, because  its clear from the paperwork  that BoS were  making  a recommendation 
about the cover and it wasnt  compulsory.
BoS made a personal recommendation to Mr and Mrs H about the PPI, so it had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure it was right for them. 
Mr and Mrs H say they didnt need  the policy. In particular, Mr H says that he had good 
benefits available to him from his employment, which  meant the PPI wasnt needed.  
Ive looked at the answers given by Mr and Mrs H to the questions in the demands  and 
needs assessment.  Both applicants stated that they didnt have any provision to replace their 
income if they became unemployed, or if they were off work sick. Based on these answers  I 
think BoS made a sensible  recommendation to the couple.
Mr H has since  explained that he had an income protection  policy which  wouldve paid out 
75% of his salary  if he was too ill to work after hed been off work for six months. But hes 
also said that hed only have received statutory sick pay before this. The PPI policy  wouldve  
started paying out after 30 days off sick. So I think it offered a useful benefit. So even if Mr H 
had explained  his provision to BoS during the assessment I think  the recommendation 
wouldve been the same.  Mrs H worked for the same employer, although for a much  shorter  
time. I think its likely  she had a similar or lesser sick pay entitlement  and therefore the PPI 
wouldve been suitable for her too.  
Mr H has said that hed have received  a substantial amount in redundancy pay from his 
employer. I dont know why Mr H didnt  mention  this during the assessment,  so BoS couldnt 
have been expected to take this into account when it made its recommendation. But in any 
case the policy wouldve  paid out in addition to any redundancy pay, leaving any settlement 
to cover other uninsured household expenses.  Mrs Hs length  of service was far shorter, so I 
dont think shed have  received much  by way of redundancy  pay. 
Mr and Mrs H have also explained  that their fathers died in the years leading  up to taking the 
PPI and that while they didnt directly inherit any money at the time,  their mothers would  
have been in a position to help out with the mortgage if needed.  But other peoples 
circumstances can change too, so I dont think this wouldve been a suitable  way to protect 
their mortgage repayments.
Both Mr and Mrs H were  eligible  for the PPI and neither  of them  wouldve been  affected by 
any of the terms which  mightve made it more difficult for them  to make a successful claim, 
such as those related  to existing medical conditions  or self-employment.  
Mr H has queried the suitability of the benefit  split between him and Mrs H. The cover  was 
split 80:20 in favour of Mr H. This was suitable  given the disparity in their incomes  and the 
resultant impact on their household finances  if either  of them  wasnt working. Even  if it hadnt 
been suitable, as neither Mr or Mrs H made a claim they havent suffered  a financial loss 
from the way the benefit was split.
The cost of the PPI was clearly set out in the letter sent to Mr and Mrs H. The cost was 
comparable to other similar policies  offering  the same cover  around that time. So even if Mr 
and Mrs H hadnt known  the exact cost when they first agreed to take the PPI, I dont think 
Ref: DRN47858093better information about this wouldve stopped  them from taking the PPI. And I havent  seen 
anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs H. 
Ive taken into account all the points made by Mr and Mrs H but I dont think they lost out as 
a result of anything BoS mightve done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint for the reasons Ive explained. So Bank of 
Scotland Plc doesnt have  to pay any compensation.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4785809