K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) sent a large  amount  of 
their personal information to another person.
background
Mr and Mrs E found out towards the end of 2018  that RBS had sent a large amount of their 
personal information to another  customer. They say about 700 pages of information about 
investments, statements  and other personal data was incorrectly sent and that RBS offer of 
£500 compensation is not enough. Mr and Mrs E say £2,000 compensation is more 
appropriate as this was a significant breach of their data protection and the impact  could  
have been far reaching.
RBS accepts it made a mistake and has apologised. It accepts there was no excuse for its 
actions and says it carried out a full investigation. RBS has offered £500 compensation and 
says it has correctly reported the data breach.
Mr and Mrs E brought their complaint to us but our investigator thought RBS had dealt fairly 
with it and had offered  a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. The investigator 
accepted that Mr and Mrs E would have been  caused a significant  level of concern and 
worry but hadnt suffered any financial loss. The investigator didnt think it was our role to 
consider what the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) would do in these circumstances 
or consider what its fines might be.
Mr and Mrs E do not accept that view and in summary say we should consider the amount of 
personal information that was incorrectly sent and its content. They say they have taken  
legal advice and told £1,500 compensation is more  appropriate and that any ICO fine would 
be significant. They also say that RBS should  have offered £500 from the start if they 
believed that amount  was appropriate  and that it hasnt confirmed if the ICO has confirmed 
any breach.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator that RBS has made a fair and reasonable offer of 
compensation. I realise Mr and Mrs E will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate  
how strongly they feel about  whats  happened.
There is no question here that RBS made  a significant mistake by sending  Mr and Mrs Es 
personal information to the wrong  person. I accept that RBS sent a large amount of personal 
and confidential  information that contained  information about other accounts, investments 
and mortgage  applications. So I appreciate Mr and Mrs Es concerns in those circumstances 
and their questions  about  how RBS allowed that to happen. I also accept that Mr and Mrs E 
would have been concerned about the possibility of that personal information being used by 
fraudsters and the risk of significant financial loss.
But Im satisfied RBS has apologised for what  took place and has accepted  that it made a 
mistake. I can see that it carried out an investigation when told about  the mistake  and has 
confirmed that it has complied with its process in dealing with these sorts of mistakes.
Ref: DRN42680082So the question  here is the level of compensation that Mr and Mrs E should be awarded. 
And Ive come to the overall view that RBSs offer of £500  compensation is fair and 
reasonable. I say that as Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs E didnt suffer any financial loss as a 
result of what took place.  I appreciate Mr and Mrs E say there could have been far greater 
consequences and I accept that. But I have  to consider what the actual loss and impact was 
rather than what could  have happened.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs E say that any ICO fine may be significant but that is not something 
I can comment on or if the ICO has been notified.  And I make it clear  that I dont think any 
penalty by the ICO is linked  to what I think is a fair and reasonable level of compensation 
here.
I accept that Mr and Mrs E have taken  their own legal advice on the level of compensation 
and I also accept that in the circumstances they may wish to take alternative action against  
RBS. So I will leave it to them to decide if they wish to accept RBSs  offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc has made a fair and reasonable 
offer of £500 compensation. Mr and Mrs Es acceptance of that offer would be in full and 
final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 October  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4268008