K820x#14Complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Santander UK Plc reviewed, blocked and subsequently closed his 
account. Mr B hasnt been able to access money  he says hes entitled to.
Background
In April 2019, Mr Bs mother attempted to transfer  Mr B some  money.  As Mr Bs mother  lives 
in a different country, she used a Bureau  de Change to make the transfer. Mr B says the 
Bureau de Change  sent him the money  in seven different transactions, from different bank 
accounts. Ive detailed a summary  of the transactions below.
3 April 2019  £6,000  received into Mr Bs account. £10,000 transferred from Mr Bs 
current account to his savings account.
5 April 2019  £2,000  transferred from Mr Bs savings  account into his current  
account. And then transferred into an external account in Mr Bs name.
15 April 2019  Mr B transferred £12,000 from his savings account to his current  
account. Then to an external account. Mr B also received payments of £2,500 and 
£3,500 into his current account.
16 April 2019 - £1,000 and £3,000 transferred into Mr Bs current  account.
17 April 2019  Mr B transferred £1,000  to an external account and £900 from his 
savings account  to his current account.
18 April 2019 - £1,000 transfer from Mr Bs current  account  to an external account.
On 22 April 2019, Santander received notification of fraud from a third-party bank in relation 
to the £6,000 credited  to Mr Bs account on 3 April 2019. Santander  decided  to review Mr Bs 
account and blocked it. When Santander  asked Mr B about  the £6,000 payment, Mr B 
explained it was from his mother to pay for his brothers university tuition fees. Santander  
asked Mr B for evidence.  
A couple of days later,  Mr B gave Santander  his evidence in branch. He supplied them with 
his passport and a screenshot of the account  showing  a £6,000 transfer.  Santander didnt 
agree this was sufficient  evidence. And their review highlighted more  concerns over Mr Bs 
account activity   so they got in touch with Mr B for more information.
Mr B explained that his mother doesnt  hold a UK bank account, so shed given the money 
she needed to transfer to somebody at the Bureau  de Change. Mr B explained that this 
person sent the money to several  people in the UK, who then transferred  the money into his 
account. Santander told Mr B theyd  need  to see a statement from his mothers bank 
account to show  the total payment leaving her account. Santander also asked  for a copy of 
the statement  from the external account Mr B used to pay his brothers tuition fees.  Mr Bs 
account remained blocked, but they allowed Mr B to access his wages and benefits.
On 17 May 2019, Mr B complained to Santander as he still couldnt access  his account or 
the money in it.
Santander made the decision  to end their relationship  with Mr B on 21 May 2019 and gave 
him 30 days notice. Santander also told Mr B they were going to remove  the remaining 
money of around  £7,000 from his account  until they were satisfied he was entitled to it. While 
Santander have  closed Mr Bs account,  Mr B was using his overdraft facility and therefore 
the debt remains  with Santander.
Ref: DRN49404672On 25 May 2019, Mr B provided  additional evidence to Santander. He sent them  a 
screenshot of a text message from his mother showing  her account balance  and screenshot  
of the accounts  showing  the transfer. Santander  didnt  agree the evidence  was enough to 
show Mr Bs entitlement.
On 2 June 2019, Mr B asked Santander  what would happen to the money   Santander  
explained they were holding  it. 
Mr B brought his complaint to our service  and provided the investigator with some  additional  
information in relation  to his entitlement to the funds for Santander to consider. The evidence 
Mr B provided showed his mothers bank statement and the transfers to an individual.  
However, Santander dont agree these statements show the connection  between  Mr Bs 
mothers account and the various UK bank  accounts  which were then used to transfer 
money to Mr Bs account.  So they were still not satisfied.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Bs complaint. She explained  that Santander were entitled  
to review and block Mr Bs account, and she thinks they gave enough  notice when deciding  
to close the account.  The investigator  also thought  Santander were entitled to hold the 
money based on the evidence Mr B had provided  to them   so she didnt think they needed 
to do anything differently.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review. 
I got in touch with Mr B to let him know why based on the evidence  he has provided so far, I 
was likely to agree with the investigator. Mr B responded and said this has caused him and 
his family  a lot of emotional stress and anxiety. He also said he has set up an arrangement  
with Santander  to clear  the outstanding debt from his overdraft but asked  if Santander could 
put a noticed of correction  on his credit file as the account hasnt  been  defaulted. Mr B also 
wanted to know  what outstanding information hed need to supply to show he is entitled to 
the £7,000 or so which Santander is holding.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. I know this isnt what  Mr B wants  to hear  and I 
appreciate how stressful  this has been for him and his family.  Ive explained my reasons for 
my decision  further below.
I recognise how frustrating it must  have  been for Mr B to realise he couldnt use his account. 
And I appreciate this put him in a financially challenging position   especially as he says he 
needed the money to pay his brothers university tuition fees. But a bank cant always  
guarantee that funds in an account  are readily available. All banks in the UK are strictly 
regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory 
obligations. Banks are also required to carry  out ongoing monitoring of an existing 
relationship. That sometimes  means  they need  to review and sometimes block customers 
accounts. Santander have said that Mr Bs accounts were  reviewed  and blocked  to meet 
these legal requirements.
Santander have  explained they reviewed things because of a suspected fraud  concern  
following the transfer of a payment from a third-party  into Mr Bs current  account. I 
appreciate Mr B has given  an explanation that these funds were transferred from his mother 
Ref: DRN49404673using Bureau  de Change, however Santander dont think the evidence  Mr B has supplied 
shows his entitlement  to the money.
I understand Mr B is frustrated because Santander dont agree the evidence he has sent is 
enough. Its important  banks complete thorough investigations to ensure theyre adhering to 
their legal and regulatory  obligations. In Mr Bs case, I agree the evidence he supplied isnt 
adequate. I say that because Mr B hasnt got any evidence to show the money  transferring 
from his mothers accounts to the several UK bank accounts, and then from these unknown 
accounts to Mr Bs accounts.  He also hasnt been  able to provide any evidence that he 
usually pays his brothers  tuition fees.  So, while I recognise this has left Mr B in a difficult 
position, Santander have a duty to protect and they wouldnt be doing  that if they released 
the money without  sufficient evidence. So, I cant say theyve done anything  wrong.
Santander decided  to end their banking  relationship  with Mr B by closing his account. And 
theyre entitled to do that under the terms and conditions of the account. I appreciate 
Santander are still holding on to the remaining money, and Mr B doesnt think they should 
be. However, Im satisfied, based  on the evidence Ive seen, Santander are taking the 
appropriate action  in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Im pleased to hear Mr B has set up an arrangement plan to repay the money he owes  to 
Santander under his overdraft facility. Mr B has asked that Santander apply a Notice  of 
correction to his account to show  it hasnt  been defaulted. This isnt something which forms 
part of Mr Bs original complaint so its not something Ive considered as part of this final 
decision. However, if Mr B has any concerns surrounding the information  on his credit file, I 
urge him to discuss it with Santander directly.
Overall, I appreciate Mr B feels he has lost out on a lot of money and I understand this has 
left him and his family in a difficult position.  But, based on the circumstances  of this 
complaint, I cant fairly say Santander have done anything wrong. Therefore, I wont  be 
asking them to do anything to put things  right for Mr B.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2020.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4940467