K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that he was mis-sold  a Royalties Account by The Royal Bank  of Scotland 
Plc (RBS).
background
Mr W took out a fee free student account with RBS in September 1998.
He then upgraded the account to a Royalties Account (RA) with a monthly fee in June 2001.
Mr W further upgraded to a Royalties Gold account  in March 2003.
He was then migrated onto a Select Platinum account in June 2015.
Mr W says that RBS mis-sold the RA to him in June 2001. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ws complaint. Mr W disagrees with that outcome so the 
case has come to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ws complaint.
Firstly Id like to re-assure Mr W that I have listened  to his phone call with our adjudicator 
where he explained in detail what his complaint  is.
Mr W says he only took out the RA in June 2001  because he wanted  the travel  insurance. He 
says he had a medical  condition  from before the sale that meant he wasnt  ever covered 
during the many years he used the travel insurance. He says he found  out about  this recently 
and wants the fees he paid for the RA and all the subsequent packaged bank accounts 
returned to him.
Mr W is clear that he chose to take out the RA, he knew  he was paying  a fee for it and he did 
use some  of the other benefits of the accounts he held over the years.  But he says he would 
never have  taken out the RA in the first place if hed known he wasnt covered by the travel 
insurance.
So I will consider what RBS was required to do when it sold the RA to Mr W in June 2001. 
Mr W says that RBS recommended  the RA to him. RBS says that this was a non-advised sale, 
by which  it means that it didnt recommend  the RA to Mr W personally or advise him to take it. 
I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as a record of a 
discussion about Mr Ws needs and circumstances or a suitability check  to show  me clearly 
that RBS did make  a personal recommendation to him. I accept its possible that in providing 
information to Mr W and explaining the benefits  of the RA, RBS may have said or implied that 
it was a good idea for him to take it out. But this isnt the same as a personal recommendation. 
And based on this services knowledge of RBSs  sales practices at the time, I think  its more 
likely than not that RBS sold the RA to Mr W on an information only basis.  
Ref: DRN42469282This means  RBS did not have to ensure that the RA was suitable for Mr W but it did have to 
provide him with good enough  information about the account so he could make an informed 
decision about whether to have it or not.
So the key issue  is whether Mr W was given enough  information by RBS to know that the 
travel insurance policy might not cover him.
Mr W has explained the nature of the pre-existing medical injury  that he had at the time of the 
RA sale. This injury  was serious  enough that he says it affected him greatly then and still 
affects him now.
I dont have a copy of the travel insurance  policy he was sold.  But I do have copies of other 
travel insurance policies sold around that time. Mr W says that the policy he took out didnt 
mention or highlight  that pre-existing medical conditions  werent  covered. I dont doubt  his 
honest recollections about this. However other insurance policies at the time did refer to and 
highlight that a customer should  disclose  material facts about themselves in relation to the 
cover they were seeking. And so I think its more likely than not that the policy  Mr W bought  
would have done so too.
Mr W has explained in detail both how serious his injury was and the very active  nature of the 
holidays he was seeking to do. So I think its more  likely than not that his injury was a material  
fact he should  have disclosed,  and the information he was given was good  enough  to bring  
this to his attention.
So I dont  think I can say that Mr W was completely unaware that he might not be covered by 
the travel  insurance  he bought through the RA from RBS in June  2001,  as I would have to in 
order to uphold his complaint on this point.
So in my view, Mr W has not lost out as result of RBS doing anything  wrong and although I 
know hell be disappointed I cant uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Ref: DRN42469283Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4246928