K821x#15complaint
Mr N has complained about the lack of service provided by Sanlam Partnerships  Limited  
over a period  of three  years.
background
Mr N complained to his independent  financial adviser (IFA) who is an appointed 
representative of Sanlam about  the lack of contact  hed received throughout 2016, 2017 and 
2018. 
Mr N had an ongoing service agreement with the IFA for a pension  plan and an ISA. Mr N 
initially raised his complaint  directly with the IFA stating he was unhappy with the level of 
contact over the three years.  The IFA accepted  that the service hed provided had been 
poor, and agreed  to refund  the charges. However, when the IFA sent the complaint to 
Sanlam, he presented a somewhat different picture. The IFA argued that it was the client  
that was difficult to reach. And he would only agree to one year of fees being refunded.
Sanlam upheld Mr Ns complaint in part and offered to refund him the fee charged for the 
year 2016  with interest. But Sanlam didnt refund the charges for the years 2017 and 2018. 
Mr N was unhappy with this and brought his case  to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She established with the help of Sanlam the 
contact that the IFA had with Mr N:
 
2015
28 April 2015  Portfolio  Analysis Report  (Portfolio  1)
28 April 2015  Portfolio  Analysis Report  (Portfolio  2)
28 April 2015  Valuation 
 
2016
No communication  
 
2017 
10 May 2017  Portfolio  Analysis Report  (Portfolio  1) 
10 May 2017  Valuation 
 
2018
IFA says he attempted  two phone calls and left two voicemails 
The IFA hasnt provided the contact notes from the 2017. But the adviser has given us a 
summary of what he recalls being  discussed. The summary says that a review of the ISA did 
occur but no action needed to be taken. And that a review of the pension  didnt occur 
because the adviser  had difficulty getting the information ready for the meeting, due to 
system issues.  The evidence received from the time shows  a meeting did take place, which 
isnt in dispute, and that the IFA recorded  that the markets  were high at present. But the 
funds may require switching  in the future and he would contact  Mr N when  the markets 
lowered, this applied for both plans.
Mr N has told us that when they met in 2017, it was agreed that the IFA would make  
changes to his portfolios and that this would be confirmed in writing.  But Mr N says no 
Ref: DRN46817962changes were made and he never received anything in writing.  Mr N says following this he 
received no further  contact until he complained.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld  and Sanlam  to compensate  Mr 
N for all three years rather than just the one. She said that she didnt think the IFA had met 
the terms of the agreement he had with Mr N which said:
Payment for Ongoing  Services
We offer an ongoing service where we review your account every  6 to 12 months  and inform  
you of new recommendations or changes that may be relevant to your circumstances. This 
service is provided at a charge of between 0.5% to 1% per month  and can either be 
deducted from your investment or paid by direct debit. This service can be cancelled at any 
time. 
The investigator explained that she didnt  think what  occurred in 2017 constituted a full 
review. Only one portfolio seemed to have been  reviewed and the IFAs summary suggested 
a full review hadnt  been  carried  out either. And she didnt think the two calls and voicemails 
the IFA said hed carried out was enough to say hed met the terms of the agreement for that 
year either.
Mr N agreed to the recommendation but Sanlam didnt respond  so the case has been  
progressed for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly speaking, Id expect an IFA to have done  something to justify  ongoing  commission.  
Whilst I recognise Mr N couldve cancelled the agreement earlier or pro-actively contacted 
the IFA for reviews, the fact remains Mr N has paid for a service  he certainly didnt receive in 
full. Across the three years he received very little contact   the IFA contends  only one year 
needs refunding.  So Ill go on to consider what happened in the other years.  But just on the 
lack of service received  alone, theres a strong argument to say that all the fees should be 
refunded.
And looking at the terms of the service agreement, I dont think the service provided  by the 
IFA meets what was agreed. 2016 there  was no contact  at all, so there  can be no argument 
here, this is the year that Sanlam  has agreed  to refund.
In 2017, there was a meeting where it appears a review of sorts was carried out on one of 
the portfolios.  The evidence  provided isnt complete so its difficult to know  what was 
discussed and there  is a difference  between the recollections of the adviser and Mr N. But 
from the evidence  we do have it seems  only one of the portfolios was reviewed. And a 
discussion was had about Mr Ns current circumstances.
Mr N says it was agreed that changes  to the portfolio would be made and hed receive 
written confirmation of this. However, it seems nothing was sent to Mr N and no changes  
were made to the portfolio.  However, the IFAs recollections are slightly different, he says 
that it was agreed  that for now no changes  were needed as the markets were  high,  although 
Ref: DRN46817963the policies were performing slightly behind the sector  average. And changes  would be 
considered in the next review.
In any event whatever  was agreed, looking at the evidence we do have from the time and 
from the advisers recollections,  I dont think a full review in line with the service  terms was 
carried out. The pension  portfolio wasnt reviewed  and whilst it seems the other  portfolio  
was, the record  of what was said is fairly vague with generic references  to both plans 
(despite only one being reviewed). And to changes and a full review in the future that never  
materialised. The context of this has to be considered  there  hadnt  been a review  of any 
kind since 2015. The service terms say that a review will be carried out every 6 to 12 
months. And yet at best what  amounted to essentially  half a review  was carried  out in the 
space of two years.
Then in the following  year, where promises of a full review were made Mr N says he 
received no contact. The adviser  says he did try to call Mr N and left a voicemail  on two 
occasions. Whilst weve received no evidence of this, in any event I dont think  this 
constitutes a reasonable effort at contact in the circumstances.  
If the IFA had felt as he does now, that Mr N was avoiding him as he no longer wanted his 
services, I think it wouldve been reasonable to follow up the attempt to contact  Mr N in 
writing.
So in conclusion, across  the three years, Mr N has received very little in the way of service  
from the IFA. I dont think the IFA has met the terms of the service  agreement.  And I dont 
think the IFA has sufficiently evidenced  that he has carried  out his duties in the agreed 
manner across any of the three years complained about.
how to put things right
Sanlam should  refund all three years worth of fees plus interest. The offer should be made 
on the same  basis as the existing offer for the 2016 fees  which  I understand hasnt been  
accepted or paid as yet. Therefore the interest calculation for all three  years  should now be 
up to the date of the new calculation.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ns complaint  and direct Sanlam  Partnerships Limited to put things right as 
detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020
Ref: DRN46817964Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4681796