K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in April 2004. Ms H says Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms H and Tesco agree the PPI and credit  card were sold by post. When selling the PPI to 
Ms H, Tesco had to make  it clear the policy was optional. It also had to get Ms Hs 
agreement to take it out. Ms H says she didnt ask for the insurance and she didnt know it 
was optional. 
Tesco has provided  a copy of the application that Ms H completed. On this I can see that 
there is a section called  Cardholder  Payment  Protection. And below this it has a brief 
description of the PPI and a statement that reads:  We strongly recommend you take out this 
cover. For cover  just tick this box. A tick has been placed in the relevant  box and Ms H has 
signed the application form. If Ms H did not want the cover, this box couldve been left blank. 
Looking at this form, I think Tesco made  it clear  that Ms H didnt have to take out the PPI 
and that she chose to take it out  although given how long ago this took place I can 
understand why she cant  remember this.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think Tesco recommended  the PPI to Ms H so it didnt 
have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Ms H got the information  
she needed to decide if it was right for her.
I think its likely that the information  Ms H received  about the PPI could have  been  better  
than it was. But I dont  think better  information would have changed her mind about  taking 
the cover  and Ill explain why.
Based on what Ive seen  of Ms Hs circumstances at the time she was eligible for the policy  
and it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover.
Ms H has told us shed get 12 months sick pay from her employer if she was off work unwell. 
But the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months  if Ms H couldnt  work due to illness and 
this wouldve  been paid alongside  her employer benefits. And if Ms H had lost her job, this 
policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months.  So I think she would have valued the extra  
security the policy  gave her if things  went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Ms H. As the policys  premiums  were 
paid monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her needs.  And I can see Ms H 
cancelled the policy in February 2004.
Which means Tesco  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms H.
But Tesco has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms H because: 
Ref: DRN42992022Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms H about that. Because Tesco didnt tell Ms H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Ms H.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Ms H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4299202