K821x#15complaint
Mr O says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid) irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about nine payday  loans Quick Quid  provided  to Mr O from June 2008 
onwards. Mr Os last loan was provided  in June 2010. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Os complaint and thought  that the loans from loans three 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. 
Quick Quid disagreed with our adjudicators  view.  As the parties havent been able to agree 
on a resolution the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Mr O could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Os complaint.
Ref: DRN47367632As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans three and four would most 
likely have shown that:
the loan repayment required represented  a significant proportion  of Mr Os monthly  
income. In these circumstances, there was a significant risk that Mr O wouldnt have 
been able to repay this loan without undue difficulty or borrowing  further.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mr O, I think that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Mr O was unlikely to have  been  able to make 
his loan repayments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan five. I say this 
because:
by this stage, Mr O was into his seventh  month  of owing Quick Quid money.  In my 
view, Mr Os loan history  up until this point was in itself a clear demonstration of his 
inability to settle his loans  over the life of the credit agreement. Indeed  Mr O was 
given loan five even though he appears  to have  been in some  kind of arrangement  to 
repay loan four.
Mr O continued to be provided with new loans shortly after having repaid  previous 
ones. So Quick  Quid ought to have realised  it was more likely  than not Mr O was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole the repayment of his previous loans left in 
his finances and that Mr Os indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
Mr O wasnt  making  any real inroads  into what he owed Quick  Quid and his 
indebtedness was being prolonged for an extended  period of time. Loan nine was 
provided two years  after Mr Os first. And it was for almost double  the amount of     
Mr Os first loan.  This meant that Mr O paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, 
service a debt to Quick  Quid  over an extended  period.
I think that Mr O lost out because Quick  Quid provided loans three to nine onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Os indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time Mr O owed  Quick Quid money  was likely to have had 
negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im partially upholding Mr Os complaint and Quick Quid should  put things  right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr O paid on loans three to nine;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Ref: DRN47367633For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Os complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr O compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4736763