K820x#14complaint
Mr Ks unhappy with the way HSBC UK Bank  Plc has dealt with him when he asked to make 
a payment from his credit  card to a charge  card with another provider. 
background
Mr K was nearing his credit limit on his HSBC  credit card and he contacted it to see if he 
could make a manual  payment onto it so he could ensure  hed a sufficient available balance 
to pay £3,000 onto a charge card with another provider for use abroad. 
A direct debit was due to go out to pay the credit  card and HSBC  said a manual payment 
would therefore  count as an additional  payment  which  wouldnt attract a payment of interest  
from HSBC. Mr K therefore declined to make the additional payment. Mr K made other  
suggestions about what could be done but these werent successful.  HSBC  also refused to 
increase his credit limit or authorise an overspend. 
Mr K is unhappy that after hours on the phone  he wasnt able to send  money to his other 
charge card.  He says HSBC was inflexible and didnt make any suggestions as to how to 
resolve matters. He wants compensation for the time he spent  on the phone and the trouble 
and upset caused.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  In summary he said:
In Mr Ks call with HSBC on 9 May 2019  he declined to pay his credit card with his 
debit card as this would be a duplicate payment and HSBC wouldnt  pay interest on 
the surplus money.
Mr K also suggested paying  the money directly  from his current account to his other 
charge card but the agent couldnt  find the required details  of previous payments on 
HSBCs system. That wasnt  unreasonable as the recipients account details arent 
always shown on the transaction statements. And the payment had been made on 
the charge card itself and it wasnt a bill payment on the HSBC credit card account. 
So its unlikely the receiving banks details would be available to HSBC. Mr K also 
refused to contact  the charge card company for the necessary details  as he felt 
HSBC should  have them. 
Mr K couldve also made the payment from his joint account debit card but he 
declined to do so. The agent  also gave Mr K the option of cancelling  and reinstating  
the direct  debit but this wasnt possible due to the timing  of the existing payment.
HSBC also said it couldnt  agree  to raise Mr Ks credit limit as it would need to 
complete a full affordability and credit score  application. This wasnt unreasonable 
and wouldve taken  some time to complete.
Mr K is unhappy the call lasted about  an hour.  But this shows  HSBC  was trying to 
resolve matters. We cant ask it to change  its processes. HSBC didnt fail to give Mr 
K solutions to try to help. It did as much as it could  to assist. HSBC didnt make  any 
errors and its requests  werent unreasonable. Its reasonable to expect a customer to 
take the time necessary to resolve issues they have with a business. He will not be 
asking HSBC to pay any compensation.
Ref: DRN41689702Mr K remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review. In summary he says he 
cannot understand how he can have  significant funds in various HSBC accounts  and it 
steadfastly declined  to pay any interest on money paid in advance  on order  to make a credit 
card transfer. He doesnt accept HSBC made any reasonable or sensible suggestions to 
assist. Its proposals were totally inflexible. It shouldve allowed a temporary increase of his 
credit limit for a few days. That wouldve avoided all the problems and his wasted time. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Mr K says HSBC was inflexible and didnt offer helpful solutions. But although I recognise his 
frustration at what happened I cant agree with him.
Overall I think  HSBC  did make a number of suggestions and solutions  available to Mr K. But 
unfortunately they werent the ones he wanted. It said he could make a duplicate  payment 
into the account but not unreasonably it said it wouldnt give him interest on the surplus 
funds. Mr K declined that solution. It also said he could  make the payment from another joint 
account but again he didnt want to do so.
I realise HSBC couldnt find details of the charge card companys bank to make a payment 
from another account to it. But I dont think it can be blamed for that as for reasons beyond 
its control it didnt have them from a previous payment Mr K had made and it hadnt been 
made as a bill payment.  Mr K also wasnt prepared to call the charge card company to get 
the necessary  information.
Mr K also says HSBC shouldve increased  his card limit or allowed an authorised overspend.  
But HSBC  isnt obliged  to do either  thing.  It was fully entitled to consider any such requests 
in line with its normal processes. Here  that wouldve taken some time as a full credit  and 
affordability check wouldve been required.  Even if Mr K had other  money deposited in 
HSBC accounts  or only needed the increased credit limit for a few days, HSBC was entitled 
to apply its normal processes and procedures to his requests. And those arent  something 
we would interfere  with. HSBCs refusal  to increase the credit card limit was also an example  
of it exercising its commercial judgement, which is also a matter we will not interfere with.
Taking everything into account  I think HSBC made  reasonable  attempts to help Mr K. And 
the fact he was on the phone for an hour or so shows various options were considered. I 
dont think this was unreasonable  and that I can fairly or reasonably require HSBC to do 
anything more or compensate Mr K for the time he spent on the phone.
All consumers spend some time and experience some additional  inconvenience  in dealing  
with an issue like this, a complaint and putting  things right. We wouldnt generally 
recommend theyre  compensated for this and Im not persuaded that I can reasonably depart 
from this approach in this case. Not least as I dont think HSBC has done anything  wrong.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Ks strength of feeling, I dont see any compelling reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.
Ref: DRN41689703my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4168970