K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs C applied for a credit  card in 2003. The PPI was added  to the credit card at the same  
time and covered her repayments if she couldnt  work due to disability or unemployment. It 
also included life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Mrs C disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mrs Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Halifax should have  made it clear  to Mrs C that the PPI was optional and got her agreement  
before adding it. While I cant be sure what was said in the meeting,  Ive looked closely at all 
of the information I have  about this sale, including what  Mrs Cs said about  not being  made  
aware the PPI had been added.
Halifax has sent me a copy of the credit card application Mrs C signed and dated. Under a 
section headed  Protecting Your  Repayments , it included a clear and prominent  box to tick 
if she wanted PPI. The box was ticked.  I think the application, together with experience of 
how Halifax sold PPI at the time, suggest  there was a discussion between Mrs C and the 
adviser about insurance. And that she chose to take PPI, knowing  it was optional.
I think Halifax recommended PPI to Mrs C. This means it had to look into whether PPI was 
right for her. I dont know if it did that. But, from what Halifax  has sent me and what Mrs Cs 
told me about her circumstances at the time of the sale, I think the PPI was right for her in 
any case because:
She was eligible for the PPI. And I dont think she was affected  by any of the main 
things the PPI excluded or limited cover for. 
She was entitled  to enhanced sick pay from her employer  for a time. But the main 
PPI benefits would have paid out on top of that, and for up to 12 months per claim. 
The PPI covered her for unemployment  too. Mrs C had savings  but the PPI would 
have allowed her to retain  them or put them towards covering her other living costs if 
she wasnt working. Overall, I think the PPI would  have been  of use to her. 
Theres nothing to suggest Mrs C couldnt  afford the PPI. And, if she no longer 
wanted it, the PPI was flexible  enough  that she could  have  cancelled  it at no extra  
cost.
Ref: DRN46429622Halifax also had to make  sure it told Mrs C enough about the PPI for her to make up her own 
mind about  whether it was right for her. And it had to do this in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way. I dont know for sure how much information Halifax  gave Mrs C or how well 
it was explained.  But, for the same reasons I think the PPI was right for her, I dont think  
better information would  have  made a difference to her decision to take it out.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs C paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs C back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs C now Ive issued my final decision, if it hasnt 
already done so.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4642962