K821x#15complaint
C, a limited company,  complains that Metro  Bank  Plc allowed payments from its account that 
it had not authorised.
background
C signed up for a service  with an online business giving its debit card details. It said it used 
someone elses online account to do this. C realised  that the business was taking a monthly  
payment of between £22 to £24. This seemed to vary as it originated in a different  currency.  
C did not have  access to the third partys account  anymore.  A director of C spoke to 
Metro Bank  in January 2018 to stop the payments and it cancelled its debit card.  But the 
next month the payment  was taken from the new card. When  C raised this again Metro  Bank  
said it would  need  to change the account  number by closing and reopening it. This 
happened in August 2018. 
The investigator recommended  that the complaint be upheld  and the payments  in question 
since January 2018 be refunded with simple  interest  of eight per cent and that C also be 
paid £150 in compensation. He said that:
-Metro Bank had contacted the card issuing scheme in February  2018  to cancel what 
it considered to be a continuous payment authority (CPA) for the business.
-Metro Bank said that as this had not worked  the payments were  not being  taken  
under a CPA.  And its systems showed this was not a CPA. 
-He did not think that Metro Banks view that C had instead provided its new card 
details to the business was a plausible explanation.  And the director  of C had told 
Metro Bank that the payments were not authorised  after January 2018. So it would 
be up to Metro Bank to put in place provisions  to stop them.
-If the only option was to close  and reopen the account then this could have been 
suggested sooner.
Metro Bank  did not agree.  It said that closing an account was a last resort.  It was unclear 
why the director  could not have  contacted  the business to cancel the instruction. Metro Bank 
was told by C it was a recurring  payment  and it had no way to know  whether the next one 
would be a recurring payment or not. Its systems say it wasnt  and it didnt know how the 
investigator could  say it was not authorised without knowing what contract  C had signed up 
for. Metro Bank said these payments were not made under  a CPA. And they couldnt be 
claimed under a chargeback as C never  provided proof of cancellation.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely  at the information provided by Metro  Bank.  I can see that the systems 
information about the payments from March  2018 onwards its captured  do not record  these 
payments as recurring. That to me is at odds with the way theyve been taken and 
processed and whats  been necessary to stop them.
I can see that the January 2018 payment was applied to Cs bank account on 
5 January 2018. Its debit card was cancelled  on 15 January 2018. And the director spoke to 
Metro Bank  on 5 February 2018 about a further  payment  that had been originated and was 
Ref: DRN42135422due to be posted to Cs bank account  using the new card details. Metro Bank refunded £25 
to C that day and gave instructions through the card scheme that the payment be cancelled.
I havent seen  a systems  record for that payment in February 2018.  And Metro  Bank  says it 
would likely  show the old and the new card number  had it been redirected.  I understand from 
Metro Bank  that the legitimate way that the business  could have obtained  the new card 
details from the card issuing scheme  database  was if the payment  was a CPA.  So 
Metro Bank  concludes that C must  instead  have provided those details. Like the investigator 
I find this highly unlikely  not least because it is inconsistent with the steps I accept  C has 
been prepared  to take to stop these payments. And as that payment had already been 
originated in February 2018 I dont think its enough for Metro  Bank  to say that all it did was 
what C asked which was to cancel a CPA. If it was not recorded  as a CPA then that should  
reasonably have been apparent to Metro Bank  at the time.
It isnt possible to resolve why the payments did not show  on Metro Banks systems as 
recurring. That might have something  to do with the way the business originating recorded 
them. But to all other intents and purposes  they showed the same characteristics as a CPA. 
And I am aware that it can be difficult to cancel a CPA even if a customers bank  makes  the 
request.
But Im satisfied that C told Metro Bank in February  2018 that these payments  were not 
authorised. And C explained why it could not contact the originating  business  to cancel 
them. This was not an ideal  position  but I consider  Metro Bank  did not subsequently have 
authority from C to take the payments from the account. 
As it says Metro Bank  took the unusual step of closing the existing account - but only after 
six months had passed. And in the final response  it apologised to C for the time taken to 
stop the payments and the poor service  and offered as a resolution to refund  three  of those 
payments totalling  £67.74.
I dont consider that this and the apparent  refund of the February 2018 payment referred to 
above was a sufficient response here.  I agree that what the investigators suggested is 
reasonable and that this puts C in the position it should have been  in. And compensates  it 
for the inconvenience  of having to pursue  this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I require Metro  Bank  Plc to:
1)Refund any outstanding payments made to the business involved that occurred after 
January 2018.
Ref: DRN421354232)Pay eight  per cent simple interest  on each payment now refunded  from the time it 
was paid until the time it was refunded.
3)Pay C £150 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4213542