K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about the advice he was given by St Pauls  Marketing Limited (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David  Securities Limited) to transfer his pension  to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
The background to the complaint was set out by the investigator in his assessment. Mr M 
had said he was cold called by St Pauls Marketing Limited in 2016 offering him a pension 
review. Mr M said he was told he could benefit  from lower fees when transferring his 
pensions. The investigator said St Pauls Marketing provided Mr M with promotional material  
relating to an investment in debentures issued by Just Loans. Mr M subsequently opened a 
SIPP and transferred two personal pensions to it in December 2016. 
There were two transfers. The first transfer was completed on 5 December  2016  with 
£28,506 paid to the SIPP. As part of the process a stockbroking account  was opened and 
£27,696 was paid into it. On 19 December 2016  £4,322 was transferred to the SIPP.  £4,232 
was paid into the stockbroking account. Both were invested in the Just Loan debentures. 
Mr M, through his representative, complained to Alexander David in September 2018. I 
understand Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the complaint. The 
representative subsequently referred  it to us. Our investigator asked Alexander David for its 
files and to provide any other evidence it wanted  us to take into account. However, no files 
or evidence  or arguments were received.
The investigator said he thought, from the information provided,  that it was likely that St 
Pauls Marketing had recommended the investment to Mr M. He said it had provided him with 
all the information  about the debentures and the benefits of transferring his existing pensions 
to the SIPP.  He said as St Pauls  Marketing  had advised Mr M on the investment  he had 
considered whether the advice was suitable for his circumstances  at the time.
The investigator said Mr M was in his late 40s and his pensions  were the only funds he had 
to rely on in retirement. Mr M had said he was a low risk investor and couldnt afford the risk 
of losing his pension. Taking this into account, the investigator thought  investing  the
pension funds into high risk bonds wasnt in line with his objectives at the time.  He said an 
adviser providing a recommendation  in the best interests of their client should have identified  
this. 
The investigator said a high-risk investment  of this type would be more  suitable for an 
experienced investor with a capacity for loss. He said it was clear that Mr M wasnt  such an 
investor; he had little investment experience or capacity for loss. St Pauls Marketing had 
arranged the investment  for Mr M which was a regulated activity. The investigator said it 
should have followed  the rules set out in COBS.  COBS 10.1.2  said:
This chapter applies to a firm which arranges  or deals  in relation to a non-readilv  realisable
security, speculative illiquid security, derivative  or warrant with or for a retail client.. .and
the firm is aware, or ought reasonably to be aware,  that the application or order is in
response to a direct offer financial promotion
Following on from this, COBS 10.2.1  provided:
Ref: DRN48007762(1) When providing a service to which this chapter  applies, a firm must ask the client to
provide information  regarding  his knowledge and experience  in the investment field relevant
to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to enable the firm to
assess whether the service or product envisaged  is appropriate  for the client.
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm must  determine whether the client has the
necessary experience and knowledge  in order to understand  the risks involved in relation to
the product or service  offered or demanded.
The investigator said in his view, if it wasnt for St Pauls Marketings involvement which 
wasnt just limited to promotion, its unlikely Mr M would have gone ahead  with the 
investment.
The investigator also didnt think St Pauls Marketing had met its obligations  under the 
regulators Principles for Business.  He noted firms must conduct its business with due skill, 
care and diligence:  pay due regard to the interests  of its customers and treat them fairly: 
manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and its customers and between a 
customer and another  client,  and take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice 
and discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment'.  
However he didnt  think St Pauls Marketing had followed these Principles. 
The investigator sent his assessment of the complaint to Alexander David. However it didnt
provide a response. The investigator  wrote to both parties on 19 February 2021 explaining
that the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman  for review and to make  a final
decision. The investigator subsequently wrote again on 3 March 2021. He said that having 
reviewed the case he thought  compensation should  be calculated slightly  differently to what 
hed proposed in his assessment. He set out how he thought  it should  be calculated.  No 
further material evidence  or arguments were presented.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alexander David didnt  respond to Mr Ms original  complaint or to the investigators requests 
for information. So theres only very limited evidence available to establish what happened at 
the time of the transfer and investment. 
Ive carefully considered  the evidence that is available, including Mr Ms recollections of 
events. The investigator  set out his thoughts  on the matter in his assessment and Alexander 
David hasnt disputed what  he said or provided any further evidence or arguments.
Im satisfied, on the balance of the evidence that is available, that St Pauls Marketing was 
involved from the outset  and following its input Mr M transferred his pension  to the SIPP  and 
invested in the debentures. In my experience its unusual  for someone of Mr Ms background 
and experience to want  to transfer  an existing pension in order to invest in this type of 
investment without prompting. I think it was unlikely to have happened  without  the 
involvement of St Pauls Marketing. Im satisfied that it initiated the transfer and investment in 
the debentures. It was aware of where the investment was going to be made and facilitated 
it. 
The investigator thought St Pauls  Marketing  had recommended  the investment to Mr M. The 
firm hasnt disputed this. In all the circumstances and on the balance of the limited evidence  
Ref: DRN48007763thats available,  I think its more likely than not that St Pauls  Marketing did advise Mr M to 
transfer and invest  in the debentures. And given the significant risks presented  by the 
investment, I dont think it was suitable for Mr M in his circumstances, particularly given he 
has said that he was a low risk taker with no investment experience. 
However, even if St Pauls Marketing didnt give advice to Mr M, I think  the evidence shows it 
was involved in arranging  the transaction. It was the promoter for the debentures, but Im 
satisfied, on the limited evidence available, that it went beyond just promoting  it and was 
involved in arranging the investment. 
The debentures were  a non-readily  realisable security.  As  the investigator  said,  COBS 10 
required St Pauls Marketing to assess Mr Ms knowledge and experience  in the investment 
field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered or demand so that it could  
assess whether the debentures  were  appropriate  for him.
The investigator said Mr M had little investment experience and Alexander David hasnt  
disputed this. Ive seen no evidence of Mr M having a history  of making this type of 
investment. The debentures presented significant  risks and were speculative.  In my view 
they werent appropriate for Mr M given his knowledge and experience  and this should have 
been clear to St Pauls  Marketing.
Taking all the circumstances of the transaction into account, I think  it was clear that the
debentures werent suitable or appropriate for Mr M. Like the investigator, I also dont think
the firm met its obligations under the regulators Principles for Business, in particular that it
didnt pay due regard  to the interests of Mr M and treat him fairly,  or take reasonable  care to
ensure the suitability of its advice as I think Mr M was entitled to rely on its judgment.
Im satisfied that if St Pauls  Marketing  hadnt  advised Mr M to transfer  and invest  in the 
debentures or if it had told him they werent suitable  or appropriate  for him, he wouldnt have 
transferred and invested in them.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls Marketings failures caused Mr M to transfer and 
invest in a product  that he would otherwise not have  invested into. Im satisfied its failures 
caused the losses that Mr M has claimed.
 my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr M on 
the following  basis. 
fair compensation 
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr M as close  as possible  to 
the position he would probably  now be in if he had been given suitable advice. Mr Ms 
existing pension was invested in funds  that provided a greater  degree  of risk than Mr M has 
indicated he was willing to take or were suitable for his circumstances. I think  with suitable 
advice Mr M would have  remained in his existing pension scheme, but switched to an 
appropriate fund.  So I think  Mr M would have invested differently. Its not possible to say 
precisely what he would have done, but I am satisfied  that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr Ms circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
Ref: DRN48007764what should  Alexander David do? 
To compensate Mr M fairly Alexander David Ltd should compare the performance of Mr Ms 
investment with that of the benchmark  shown below. If the fair value is greater than the 
actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than 
the fair value, no compensation  is payable.  
Alexander David Securities Ltd should also pay any interest as set out below.  
If there is a loss, Alexander David Securities Ltd should pay into Mr Ms pension plan to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander  David  Securities Ltd 
shouldnt pay the compensation  into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ms pension 
plan, it should  pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The notional 
allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ms actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his 
selected retirement age. 
I think Mr M is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction  should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Alexander  David  should: 
Pay Mr M £100 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied  the matter has 
caused him. 
Provide details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple  format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities Ltd 
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  income  tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr M how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr M a 
tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN48007765investment  
name status Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of 
reinvest
ment  - 
17  
January 
2020The same benchmark 
on the loss calculated 
as at 17 January 2020 
to decision date.  Then 
8% simple  a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement  isnt
made within
28 days  of
Alexander
David  being
notified  of
Mr Ms 
acceptance of
this decision
Actual value 
This means  the actual transfer  value of the SIPP  at the end date (the date of re-investment).
Fair value 
This is what  the sum transferred from the pension provider would have been worth at the 
end date had they grown  in line with the benchmark.  
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should  be added to the fair value calculation from the 
point in time when  it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of 
the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases 
to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
Mr Ms circumstances  were consistent with someone who only had limited  capacity for risk. 
And in his complaint Mr M has said he was a low risk taker. 
In all the circumstances, I dont think Mr M would have transferred with suitable advice. But 
he was invested  in funds presenting a greater degree  of risk than the lower  level of risk he 
Ref: DRN48007766says he was prepared  to accept. So I think its likely he would have  switched to lower risk 
funds if suitable  advice had been given. I dont know exactly  how he would have invested but 
I think the index  I have outlined above  is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable 
proxy for the lower level of risk that Mr M was willing and able to take.  
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to their capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Ms risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was only prepared  to 
take a limited level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  combination  
would reasonably put Mr M into that position. 
It doesnt mean that Mr M would have invested 50% in some  kind of index tracker  
investment. Rather  I consider this is a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects  the sort 
of return Mr M could  have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude. 
The investigator recommended  that fair compensation  be calculated as at 17 January  2019; 
the date that Mr M decided to reinvest  into the Just Loans Debentures. I think this is fair 
given Mr M had made his decision  to reinvest  his money  having  already raised concerns 
about the suitability of the original advice to invest. In the circumstances I dont think 
Alexander David is responsible for any losses  arising  from the re-investment. 
And although Mr M may have suffered a degree  of distress when the complaint was made 
and the return  provided on the debentures was uncertain, this would likely have been for a 
limited period given  he agreed to reinvest in the debentures when they matured in 
December 2018.  So I think £100  is fair in the particular circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2021.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4800776