K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Allianz  Insurance Plc (Allianz)  declined his claim  for his dogs veterinary 
treatment.
 
background
Mr T bought  a dog on 9 October 2018. He was provided with four weeks  free pet insurance 
with Allianz which covered the dog from 9 October  2018 to 5 November 2018.  On 
26 October 2018 Mr T took the dog to his vet for a check-up, the vet prescribed ear drops as 
the dog appeared to have  a problem with his ears. Mr Ts free insurance  cover with Allianz 
came to an end on 5 November 2018 and he took out cover for his dog with another  insurer.
Unfortunately the ear drops prescribed by Mr Ts vet didnt  resolve the problem with his 
dogs ears and in February 2019  the dog required surgery. Mr T submitted a claim  for the 
cost of this surgery to his current insurers, who declined the claim as it related to a pre-
existing condition. Mr T then submitted a claim to Allianz as the condition  his dog was 
treated for arose during the period of his free insurance cover. Allianz declined the claim as 
it was for treatment the dog received after his free cover ended.
Mr T complained to Allianz who didnt uphold his complaint  as they said his claim was 
correctly declined as he had no cover in place  in February 2019.
Mr T then complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case  but didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld as he said Mr T had no cover with Allianz  in place 
when his dog had his surgery.
Mr T didnt  accept our investigators opinion  so the case has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz wrote to Mr T on 29 October  2018 to confirm the details of his free cover. The letter  
makes it clear that his free cover  came to an end on 5 November 2018 and provided details 
of what he needed  to do if he wished the cover to continue. Mr T chose not to continue his 
cover with Allianz and obtained cover with another insurer, to start when his free cover with 
them ended.
Mr T thinks that Allianz should  cover the cost of the treatment his dog had in February  2019.  
as he says the free cover they offered prevented  him taking out cover with an insurer of his 
choice, until the free cover expired. And because  of this his dog now has a pre-existing 
condition he cant get cover for. 
Looking at the veterinary records, when Mr T took his dog to the vet on 26 October  2018  it 
was noted that his ears were slightly dirty but the dog didnt want them  examined.  The vet 
prescribed ear drops  for 14 days and recommended  the dog was then reviewed and they 
might consider sedating  him to examine him and clean and apply treatment gel to his ears if 
needed. This was within the period of free cover with Allianz.
Ref: DRN44211252But Mr T didnt  take his dog back to the vet until 1 February 2019.  And he submitted a claim 
to Allianz for the dogs treatment. But the fees arent covered  by the policy  as it had expired.  
I dont agree that the free cover with Allianz  prevented Mr T arranging  cover with another  
insurer. He didnt have  to take the free cover, this was his choice. He could have arranged 
cover with another insurer to start on a date he chose, which didnt have to be after the free 
cover had expired.  
Mr T has said he feels the free cover  offered by Allianz should  state  that if treatment is 
required during  this period, then treatment after the cover ends wont  be covered. I think  the 
documentation sent to Mr T clearly  states the period  of cover. It also says that if a claim is 
made during the period of free cover, the costs  of treating the illness or injury will be covered 
on the full policy provided the full cover is taken  out before the free cover ends. And the 
documentation also clearly states the pre-existing conditions arent covered. This is a 
standard term with pet insurance policies.  
So I think Mr T had enough information  to know what the free insurance would cover, 
enabling him to decide  whether he wanted  to take the free cover,  and to understand that if 
he didnt continue his cover with Allianz  they wouldnt  continue  to cover  any condition first 
diagnosed within the period of free cover.
So I dont  think Allianz did anything wrong  in declining Mr Ts claim and I wont be asking 
them to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Ts complaint 
against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4421125