K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Inchcape Retail Limited  (Inchcape) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2005, Mrs P bought a regular premium  PPI policy when she took out a hire purchase loan 
to buy a car. The policy cost £17.59 a month.  On a successful claim, it protected her monthly 
repayments on the loan of £146.62.
Our adjudicator ultimately didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs P didnt agree, so 
the case was passed  to me to review  afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ps case. 
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive first looked at whether Inchcape made it clear to Mrs P that she had a choice about 
buying the policy. The parties agree the PPI was sold in a meeting but I dont know for sure 
what was said to her at the time.  
Ive seen a copy  of a sample Demands and Needs  document Inchcape  says relates  to this 
sale. The statement suggests  Inchcape would have recommended the policy to Mrs P. On 
the form there are tick boxes provided for Mrs P to indicate whether  she wanted to buy the 
policy or not. I dont  know which of the boxes Mrs P ticked but Ive seen a copy of a separate 
PPI application  form and direct debit instruction  that she signed, presumably just afterwards. 
This all indicates to me that Mrs P likely  knew she had a choice about buying  the policy and 
actively decided to do so.
As Inchcape  recommended  the policy to Mrs P, it needed to check  that it was suitable for 
her. I dont  know for certain what checks Inchcape made but, considering what shes told us 
about her circumstances at the time,  I havent seen any reason to think  it wasnt suitable:
She appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations. For example, she didnt have any pre-existing medical  
conditions.
The monthly cost of the policy seems to have been affordable for her. And the policy  was 
flexible in that it could have been cancelled at any time if she no longer considered  it to 
be suitable.
Mrs P says she was entitled  to generous  sick pay from her employer and had savings 
that meant she didnt  need the policy. But, on a successful claim, this policy would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay or other sources of funding she might have had 
Ref: DRN45419892available, and for up to 12 months  per claim. So I think shed still have valued the added 
protection this policy provided at what might have  been a difficult  time for her.
Inchcape also needed to give Mrs P enough  information about the PPI policy for her to make  
an informed choice about buying it. I can see that the monthly cost and benefit  of the policy  
were given to her at the time of the sale. But I cant be sure that Inchcape did enough  to 
explain other important  things about the policy. That said, for much  the same  reasons as I 
think the policy was suitable for her, I dont think better information  would have changed her 
mind about  buying  it. 
Overall, I dont  believe Mrs Ps lost out because of how Inchcape sold her the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4541989