K820x#14complaint
Mr Q complains that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited has declined his home 
insurance claim for damage  to his sheds.  
background
In April 2019 Mr Q contacted Lloyds to make  a claim for the rebuilding  of two garden sheds. 
He reported they had been damaged when his garden fence was blown down by strong 
winds at the start of February 2019 causing  impact  damage to the sheds. He said both 
structures had become  unstable. After  paying to have his fence  replaced  he asked a builder 
friend to come round and take the sheds  down as he was worried they were dangerous. The 
sheds were dismantled and taken  to the local refuse tip.
Lloyds didnt accept  the claim so Mr Q complained. He said this was the third time hed 
recently tried to make a claim and that Lloyds was again trying  to evade covering his claims. 
Mr Q said he wanted all his premiums refunded and/or  a surveyor sent out to look at the 
remnants of wood  left from the sheds. 
On reviewing Mr Qs complaint, Lloyds said that thered been no storm (the policy defined 
storm to be winds of 55mph or more) accompanied by heavy  snow/hail  on or around the 
time the damage  occurred that couldve damaged the sheds. And it said both sheds had 
been disposed  of before Mr Q made  the claim so there was no damage for its claims team to 
validate. Lloyds  said that not all events  that caused damage were  covered by the policy  
terms. And it said for a claim  to be valid the damage must be caused by one of the one-off 
events listed in the policy. 
Lloyds said the policy terms  required Mr Q to be able to prove and substantiate his loss and 
whilst he had sent it some photos showing the shed being dismantled they didnt show  any 
damage caused by the impact. So Lloyds said it couldnt accept the photos as validation of 
the claim.  
Unhappy with the outcome of Lloyds investigation,  Mr Q complained to this service. Our 
investigator looked into his complaint but didnt recommend it was upheld because he didnt 
think Lloyds had unfairly or unreasonably  declined the claim.  
Mr Q asked for his complaint to be referred  for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr Q, I dont think his complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by a home insurance policy. Only damage 
caused by one of the one-off perils (or events)  listed in the policy will be covered. These 
include damage caused by fire, theft, flood,  storm etc. If it can be shown that the damage  
was caused by one of these events then the insurer must pay the claim unless  its able to 
rely on one of the policy exclusions  to defeat the claim. 
Mr Q reported to Lloyds  that he thought the damage to his sheds was cause by the wind.  
His policy does provide cover for damage caused  by one-off storm events. And the policy 
terms define what Lloyds  accepts to be a storm: a period of violent  weather  defined as 
Ref: DRN46864542strong winds with gusts of at least 55mph, and/or hail or snow of such intensity or weight that 
it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass. 
So in order for the claim to be considered  under the storm  peril it must first be shown that a 
storm event occurred around the time the damage was caused.  Ive looked at the weather 
records for Mr Qs neighbourhood  from the relevant time and whilst they do show that some 
bad weather was experienced,  the peak gust was 46mph which is less than that required by 
the policy terms. So I dont think that Lloyds unreasonably or unfairly declined the claim 
under the storm  peril.  
And Ive thought about the other  perils  the policy lists and whether the damage could fall 
under any of them. I can see that Mr Q has accidental damage cover for buildings.  For the 
damage to be covered  by the accidental  damage peril it must be caused by a sudden, 
unexpected or unintentional one-off incident. In other words, it must  be accidental like putting 
a foot through a ceiling.  
But even if I were able to say that the damage to the sheds could possibly be considered 
under the accidental damage cover Mr Qs policy provides him with, I can see that Lloyds 
has said that Mr Q breached some of the claims conditions under the policy.  In particular it is 
one of the conditions of the policy that Mr Q provides  Lloyds with all reasonable assistance 
and evidence concerning the cause and value of any claim. And this includes  not throwing 
away any damaged  items  before Lloyds has had a chance to see and inspect  them. This is 
so the loss can be substantiated.  
Unfortunately for Mr Q he disposed of both sheds before Lloyds  was able to inspect them.  
Whilst I note that Mr Q did provide  Lloyds  with some photographs  of the sheds being 
dismantled, they dont  show  the damage  he says was caused. So I dont think  that Lloyds  
unreasonably said that Mr Q had been unable to prove and substantiate  his loss as required 
by the policy  terms.  Lloyds' position was prejudiced by the disposal of the sheds so that it 
was unable to assess the validity of the claim under the policy. 
So, I dont think that Lloyds unfairly  declined  Mr Qs claim  on the grounds that there was no 
one-off storm event and that its position had been prejudiced by the disposal of the sheds 
before it was able to inspect the damage  and validate the claim.  I know that Mr Q feels  the 
claim was unfairly declined but Im unable to agree. And I cant  reasonably make Lloyds 
refund all of Mr Qs premiums because hes had the benefit of cover in the event an insured 
event did occur which caused damage to his home and contents. It follows that I cant fairly 
require Lloyds to send a surveyor round to inspect the remnants of the shed either.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4686454