K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that Welcome Financial Services Limited (WFSL) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss R took out a loan ending x3531 with WFSL in 2004. At the same time she bought a PPI 
policy which  wouldve covered the repayments on her loan for up to a year at a time if she 
became involuntarily  unemployed  or for as long as the loan had left to run if she was off sick 
from work.  It also provided life cover  for the loan. 
Miss R also took out a Medicare 24 policy at the same  time. Miss R hasnt  complained 
about this, so I havent looked at this sale.  
Miss Rs original complaint also included  a complaint about the redress  offered to her in 
relation to another PPI policy with a subsequent loan.  Miss R accepted our view on this 
redress  she only asked  to have the mis-sale matter reviewed further, so I have not 
addressed the matter  of redress.
The adjudicator didnt think Miss Rs complaint about the potential  mis-sale of the PPI policy 
in relation to loan ending  x3531 should  be upheld. Miss R disagrees,  so her complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Rs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Miss R accepts that she agreed to buy the PPI, but she complains that she was told it was 
compulsory  if she didnt  buy it, she wouldnt have got the loan. WFSL says that the PPI 
wasnt compulsory and that Miss R was aware of this.
WFSL has provided a copy of the loan agreement Miss R signed. The PPI is included in the 
agreement and is described clearly as Optional  Payment Protection  Insurance.  Miss R 
signed this agreement. She also completed  and signed a separate application  form for the 
PPI which, again,  described the PPI as optional.  Each element of the cover was separately 
detailed, and Miss R signed  for each one. She didnt sign for all of the types of cover 
available, and there was also an option  for no cover . If Miss R had been  told that the PPI 
was compulsory I think shed have queried this when she saw the agreement and the 
application form. 
So I think, on balance,  that Miss R understood the PPI was optional  and she chose to buy it, 
although I understand why she may not remember that 15 years  later.
WFSL gave Miss R a personal  recommendation to buy the PPI, so it had to take reasonable 
steps to make sure it was right for her. Looking at Miss Rs circumstances at the time I think  
it was suitable  for her. I say this because:
Ref: DRN47799562Miss R was eligible  for the cover and wasnt affected by any of the terms which 
mightve made it more  difficult for her to make a successful claim, such  as those 
related to existing  medical conditions or self-employment;
Miss R has said shed  have had good sick pay from her employer, but the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to this and potentially  for much longer than her full sick 
pay wouldve lasted;
Miss R wouldve had some statutory entitlement to redundancy pay, although  this 
wouldnt have been much. If Miss R was made redundant the policy wouldve paid 
out in addition to this and for up to 12 months  at a time;
Miss R says that she had some  savings, although I havent  seen  evidence  of this and 
 given the type and size of the loan  I dont  think  it wouldve been very much. 
Miss R was borrowing  about  six weeks salary over two years at a high interest rate. I 
think its likely her savings wouldve been less than six week salary. Miss R also 
says her parents  wouldve helped  her out if needed. But the policy meant she didnt 
have to rely on her parents who may not always have been in a position to help out 
even if they wanted  to;
The cost of the policy was clearly set out in the paperwork, so Im confident Miss R 
knew how much  shed  be paying. The cost of the policy was added to her loan and 
she paid interest on it. Its possible that if Miss R cancelled  the policy early that she 
wouldnt have received a pro-rate refund of the premiums. But I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest this was something Miss R was likely to do at the time of sale.
Its possible Miss R didnt  get all the information  she ideally shouldve done.  But even if 
Miss R understood  all the detail about the policy I dont think it wouldve  made  a difference to 
her decision  to buy it. I say this because it was suitable for her in the way Ive already 
described. 
So, on balance, I dont  think Miss R lost out as a result of anything  WFLS might have done 
wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint so it follows that Welcome Financial Services Limited  
doesnt have to pay any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2019.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4779956