K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) lent to him irresponsibly. He also 
feels that Barclays should not have  given him a £6,000 credit limit; it should have placed a 
daily limit on his credit card use; that it failed to provide him with an acknowledgment to his 
complaint, and it took too long to respond in full.
background
Mr S applied to Barclays for a credit card to transfer  a balance of £4,000.  He obtained  one 
and was given  a credit limit of £6,000. Mr S said the card allowed him to take cash  of up to 
100% of his credit limit, but said he had not been  made aware of that. Sometime later Mr S 
got into financial difficulty through  his on-line gambling habit. He said Barclays  didnt alert 
him or do any fraud  checks, although  he accepted  he was his own worst enemy  by 
gambling. Mr S said the on-line gambling  transactions appeared on his account as cash  like 
transaction and they shouldve  had a limit on them like the £500  ATM  cash withdrawals. He 
feels that would have helped him in thinking  twice  before gambling on-line again. On one 
occasion Mr S said he spent £6,000 in an hour leading  him to become distraught  for a few 
months, depressed,  and then giving his job up as he was off sick. Mr S also said that when  
he asked Barclays for a 0% balance  transfer to help reduce his balance it was rejected.
Barclays accepted  Mr S had initially only asked for a £4,000 balance transfer, but said 
customers could always ask to reduce  the limit on-line themselves, or ask them  to do it. 
They said Mr S had also managed his account  very well making large  payments or reducing 
the balance significantly. He had made  a number  of balance transfers and payments were 
always on time. It said there was nothing  to signal any risk or that extra  care was needed to 
help Mr S manage his finances. Further, that as the gambling didnt occur until later,  they 
had been unaware he had a problem or was in financial difficulty  until he told them.
Barclays accepted  his ATM transactions were  limited to £500 per day, but explained that 
cash like transactions were  classed as purchases  and unlimited. It said it couldnt flag up or 
track gambling transactions, nor tell its customers how to spend their money.  But, had Mr S 
told them  of his gambling problem they could have reduced his cash limit to zero to help stop 
his gambling. It said the cash  limit on his account  was detailed on each monthly  statement 
and he would therefore have been  aware  of and reminded of the facility monthly. 
Barclays did not think they had acted irresponsibly, but did agree it had not provided an 
acknowledgment letter and there  had been  a delay  in dealing with his complaint. For that it 
credited his account with £125  in compensation, which it then transferred to his bank 
account at his request.
Mr S was unhappy with Barclays response and so an investigator from this service  looked 
into the complaint  but thought that it was impossible  for Barclays to monitor  their customers 
accounts in the way Mr S suggested.  And, as Barclays hadnt known about Mr Ss gambling 
until he told them, they hadnt done  anything wrong.  Mr S disagreed with our investigators 
view and so the matter has been  passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Its clear that Mr S asked for a credit card 
with the facility to make  a balance transfer  of £4,000. This he received, although with an 
Ref: DRN47556522increase to £6,000. Had Mr S been  unhappy  with that level of credit  he could easily have 
contacted Barclays  or indeed  reduced the limit on-line. As he did neither, I am satisfied that 
he was happy  with that credit limit, and as Barclays were  unaware of his gambling  problem I 
dont think theyve done anything wrong  in giving him such a limit.
When a business  knows their customer is in financial difficulties they are obliged to treat that 
customer sympathetically and fairly.  The evidence shows  that Mr S was in fact managing his 
account very well and until he told Barclays he had a gambling  problem  they were  entirely  
unaware of it. I know Mr S believes that Barclays wouldve been  able to see he was 
spending money on gambling, but that alone does not justify them interfering with his 
account, since it is not for Barclays to dictate a customers  spending habits or preferences. I 
also think it is unreasonable to expect Barclays to monitor each of their customers accounts  
to the level Mr S suggests.  That would take huge resources given the many thousands of 
accounts Barclays have,  and is simply not manageable or proportionate. So Im afraid that I 
cant agree  that Barclays shouldve  known  Mr S was in financial difficulty. 
The evidence also shows that when Mr S told Barclays  about  his financial problems, they did 
react positively and sympathetically by referring  him to their Specialist Support Team and 
reducing his cash  limit to zero. So I can see Barclays has tried to assist  him. I know  Mr S 
complains that Barclays refused to give him a 0% balance transfer, but they have  not acted 
unreasonably in doing so. Banks  are entitled  to consider all applications on their merits and 
refuse them if they feel they dont meet their criteria for lending.
.
Barclays have accepted that it failed  to issue Mr S with an acknowledgement  to his 
complaint and that it took too long to respond  to him. The issue  therefore now becomes what  
the appropriate level of compensation ought  to be. I have  thought  about  the £125  Barclays  
paid to Mr S and although I know he will be disappointed with my decision I do agree with 
our adjudicator that this is a reasonable sum and in line with this services guidelines. So I 
dont think that Barclays need to do anything  more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC, 
and as they have already paid Mr S £125 in compensation I dont require them to do 
anything more. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr 
S to accept  or reject  my decision before 11 May 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4755652