K820x#14complaint
Miss J took out a packaged bank account  with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) from 
September 1999 for which she was charged  a monthly fee. She says it was mis-sold.
background
Miss J took out the following accounts  with Barclays:
Account Date of sale Fee paid?
Current October 1989 No
Current with overdraft December 1997 No
Additions Account September 1999 Yes
Miss J says that she was told she had to take out the Additions  Account  (AA) in order  to 
increase her overdraft, and she has not otherwise used much of the benefits  from that 
account.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the AA was mis-sold  but Miss J disagrees  so the case has come 
to me to decide.
background 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.    Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Miss Js complaint.
For the sale of the AA, I need to consider whether she knew  she had a choice between  
taking out a fee free account or the AA; whether Barclays advised  her to take out the AA or 
not; whether Barclays provided her with enough information; and, if the sale was advised 
then whether the AA was suitable  for her.  
Miss J has been clear in her testimony  that in September 1999 she believes that she was 
not given any choice as she was told that she could only increase  her overdraft if she took 
out the fee paying AA. Barclays  says it did give Miss J a choice.
I dont doubt Miss Js honest recollections  on this but I think  its more likely than not that her 
memory is mistaken and she did know she had a choice. I say this because Miss J had 
previously had a fee free account  with an overdraft with Barclays for two years so I think  she 
would have queried any advice that told her she had to pay a fee for an account. I have no 
systemic evidence from Barclays practices at the time that it wasnt offering a choice 
between fee free accounts with overdrafts  and fee paying accounts with overdrafts. 
And I also think its more likely  than not that Miss J would have known that fee free accounts 
with overdraft facilities were available from many other banks  and building  societies as these 
were widely advertised and used. So I know this will be disappointing for Miss J but Im not 
able to say that I think she was completely  unaware she had other options as I would have 
to in order to uphold her complaint on this point.
So I think Miss J did know she had a choice about whether to take out the AA and she chose 
to do so.
Ref: DRN45637362Did Barclays advise her to take out the AA? 
Barclays says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt  recommend  the 
AA to Miss J personally or advise her to take it out. Miss J says that Barclays  did advise her to 
take it out. 
I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Miss Js needs  and circumstances or suitability checks to show  me clearly 
that Barclays did make a personal  recommendation to her. I accept  its possible  that in 
providing information to Miss J and explaining the benefits of the AA, Barclays  may have  said 
or implied  that it was good idea to take it out. But this isnt the same as giving a personal 
recommendation. And based on this services  knowledge of Barclays sales  practices 
throughout this period, I think its more likely than not that Barclays  sold the AA to Miss J on an 
information only basis. This means Barclays did not have to ensure that the AA was suitable  
for Miss J at the time of the sale.
So the only requirement on Barclays was to provide her with enough  information  for her to 
make an informed choice.
Did Barclays provide  Miss J with enough  information about the AA?
The AA benefits  included purchase protection, cardholder protection, no fees for going 
overdrawn, and a £100 interest free overdraft buffer.
I dont know what information Barclays gave to Miss J although clearly Miss J did have 
substantial discussions with Barclays who were  trying  to sell her the account.
Barclays has provided evidence that Miss J had been going  overdrawn regularly before the 
date of sale, and she paid a £5 fee per month each time she did so. She also continued to go 
overdrawn regularly for a substantial period after the sale.
The AA had a monthly fee of £6 which was only £1 more than she was being charged for 
going overdrawn each  month on her fee free account. So I think its more  likely than not that 
when Barclays explained about the £6 monthly  fee and that there  was no fee for going  
overdrawn on the AA and an interest free £100  overdrawn  buffer  zone, this was of interest to 
her. And I think she saw it as useful enough  for her to decide to take out the account.
So in my view even  if Barclays  didnt  provide  Miss J with all the information  about the AA I 
think its more likely  than not Miss J wouldve chosen to take out the account  due to the 
overdraft and other benefits.  
So overall, I think Miss J knew she had a choice and chose to take out the AA, and I dont 
think Miss J lost out as result of anything Barclays may have  done  wrong  and I cant  uphold 
her complaint.
Ref: DRN45637363my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020. 
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4563736