K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Allianz Insurance Plc avoided his home insurance policy - cancelled it as 
if it never existed - and delayed informing him of its decision.
background
Mr J took out a home insurance policy with Allianz in September  2017. In February 2018 he 
raised a claim for subsidence due to cracks in the walls. He explained the cracks had 
appeared due to a historic mining  site next to his house. And he had already pursued this 
with the various  authorities responsible for the impact of the mining.
Allianz sent out a loss adjuster to assess the damage. It then considered the information  
available and concluded that the cracks  had been present when the policy  had started. It 
avoided the policy as it said Mr J had made  a mis-representation when taking it out by not 
informing it. 
Mr J was unhappy with this response and made  a complaint. He said Allianz  had spent too 
long before providing this response and in this time his property had become a total loss. He 
also didnt agree with the decision to avoid the policy. He said although he was aware  of 
cracks, they were insignificant and he had been advised  werent caused by subsidence so 
he didnt think he needed to notify  Allianz about  them.  
In response Allianz  agreed that there had been an avoidable delay and offered £350  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused. However  it said that the decision 
to avoid the policy was correct, as Mr J had made  a misrepresentation when entering into 
the insurance contract and it wouldnt have offered the insurance  if it had this information.
Mr J didnt agree with this response. He said the delay had caused him to lose a significant 
amount of money  due to the deterioration of his property  in that time. He also didnt agree he 
had made  a misrepresentation as the cracks hadnt  been cause for concern at the time and 
he had never made a subsidence claim on previous insurance. He brought  his complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt  recommend the complaint was upheld.  
She said she could  see there had been some avoidable delays, but thought  Allianzs offer of 
£350 was fair. She also thought Mr J had made  a misrepresentation so it was right that 
Allianz avoided  the policy.  
Mr J didnt agree with our investigator. He said he hadnt mentioned the cracks because they 
had been confirmed as not being  caused  by subsidence. He also didnt think  our investigator  
considered the financial  impact  the delay had caused  him. He asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has complained that Allianz avoided his home insurance policy. He is also unhappy 
with the amount of time it took Allianz to inform him of this and the impact  this had on him. I 
will address  each of these points in turn.
Ref: DRN46255302Avoidance of policy
When Mr J bought the home insurance  policy he had a responsibility  under the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act 2012  (CIDRA)  to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation. And in order to show it acted fairly  by avoiding the policy,  
Allianz need to prove that they consider him to have made a qualifying  misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of things which need  to be considered when deciding whether a
consumer failed to take reasonable care. One of these considerations is the questions  the
consumer was asked.  Allianz has provided  the questions that were  asked and the answers 
given. As well as being asked  directly  about  subsidence issues,  Mr J was asked if the 
property was in good repair and if it was currently being repaired  or monitored. Together, I 
think these three questions are clear.  They cover subsidence, but also instances where 
there are issues being monitored or repaired that arent related to subsidence. I think its 
clear from these three separate questions, that Allianz would like to know  about  confirmed 
problems and also possible  developing problems.  I therefore agree  Allianz  asked clear 
questions.
As I believe the questions  were  clear, I need  to consider whether Mr J took reasonable care
not to make  a misrepresentation. When asked  if the property was in good  repair  Mr J 
answered yes. When  asked if the property was being repaired/monitored  Mr J answered 
No. Mr J has said he first noticed  a crack  in his property  in January 2016. He says he didnt  
think this was a concern  at the time. However  he monitored the crack for a further 12 
months. In the report produced by a contractor in February 2018, following a meeting with 
Mr J at the property, it states:
at which  point [after 12 months monitoring]  it became apparent  there was an issue and 
the focus of potential cause became the nearby mining works and pit. The Policyholder 
reportedly advised to Insurers in early  2017,  looking for confirmation that legal cover was 
available should  he instigate legal proceedings under  the coal mining  subsidence act 1991.
This suggests that between 2016 and 2017 Mr J became aware  that there was a problem,  
that was potentially linked to historic  coal mining  nearby.  And enquired with his previous  
insurers about taking  action relating to this. He took out the policy  with Allianz in 
September 2017. So this was the time he answered  the above  questions.  Based on the 
monitoring he had undergone and his enquiry with his previous insurer, I think  Mr J should  
have reasonably been aware that he was making a misrepresentation. Particularly given that 
he has explained his professional background was as a surveyor.
Mr J says he subsequently  explored whether the damage was subsidence and it had been 
confirmed to him that it wasnt.  So he says he didnt think he needed  to tell Allianz about the 
cracks. I agree this would affect his answer  to the question about subsidence. However I 
dont agree this would have any impact on answering questions about the house being  in 
good repair or about any monitoring. 
I therefore think it would have been clear  to Mr J that the cracks should have been disclosed 
to Allianz.
In view of what Mr Js said Im satisfied  he failed to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation. But to show Mr Js misrepresentation was a qualifying one, under
CIDRA, Allianz needs to show it would either not have offered the policy at all if the
Ref: DRN46255303misrepresentation hadnt been made or that it would have offered it on different  terms. 
Allianz has provided me with the guidance  for its underwriters. This explains what  cover can 
be provided for. Having  viewed this and read Allianz  explanation  of how it is applied,  I can 
see that Allianz wouldnt have offered cover if Mr J had make an accurate representation of 
the cracks  at the time he took out the policy. So, Im satisfied Mr J made a qualifying  
misrepresentation.
For these reasons I think Allianz has acted fairly  by avoiding  the policy. It has also offered a 
refund of premiums, which is the remedy required under CIDRA. I therefore wont ask it to do 
anything further  or differently in relation to this.
Delay and impact
Mr J has also complained  about the length  of time it took Allianz to reach a decision about 
his insurance cover.  Having reviewed all the evidence provided, I can see that Allianz did 
cause an avoidable  delay. 
Mr J raised the claim in February 2018.  But wasnt told the policy  would be avoided until 
August that year. I appreciate six months  is a long time to wait with no progress. I have  
looked at the emails  provided by Allianz during this time and I can see there  was a period of 
three months where  an email was received but wasnt  reviewed or responded to. This was 
an avoidable  delay  that was caused  by Allianz.
Throughout the remaining three  months, I can see that work was being  completed at a 
reasonable pace.  As the decision had to be made  across a number of teams and individuals,  
it took some  time to reach.  But I think this is reasonable in the circumstances.
Allianz has offered  £350 compensation for the delay. As I agree  this was around  three  
months, I think  this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr J says that during  the six months he was waiting for an answer  from Allianz, the condition 
of his house worsened. He says what was originally  repairable is now a total loss, so Allianz  
should pay for a proportion  of the value  of his house  to make up for this.
At this service when  considering what a business  can do to put things right,  we do consider 
the individual impact its actions have had. And I can appreciate it must be distressing for 
Mr J considering the circumstances he is in. However in this case I dont agree that the delay 
caused by Allianz  caused the deterioration of his property. 
Although I can see that it may have led to a period of time with no action, if Allianz had 
avoided the policy in three months  rather than six  without the avoidable delay  I dont 
think the outcome  would have been  different. The property had significant damage.  And if 
Allianz had voided the policy in May rather than August, I dont think  this would have 
changed the fact the property would deteriorate. A large amount of work  was already 
required. And, in order for deterioration to stop, this would need to have been carried out 
instantly which is unlikely  to have happened regardless of Allianzs actions. I therefore dont 
agree that Allianz caused Mr Js house  to deteriorate further. So I agree that the £350  
compensation is fair for the delays caused.
Ref: DRN46255304putting things right
For the reasons  Ive outlined I dont think Allianz  has done anything  wrong by avoiding Mr Js 
policy. It asked clear  questions and Mr J made  a qualifying misrepresentation. Allianz has 
also provided evidence  that it wouldnt have provided the policy  if it had known about the 
cracks in the property.  
In relation to the delays, I think Allianz  has acted fairly and reasonably by offering £350 
compensation, so I agree  it should  pay this to Mr J if it hasnt  already. However I wont  be 
asking it to do anything  further or differently.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I require Allianz  Insurance Plc to pay Mr J the £350 
compensation offered if it hasnt done so already. This should be paid within 28 days of us 
telling them that Mr J has accepted my final decision. If Allianz  Insurance Plc pay later than 
this it must also pay interest  on that amount from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4625530