K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained about the duplicated  cover provided by Homeserve Membership 
Limited.
Although Mrs C has been represented in this matter by her daughter,  for ease Im just going  
to refer to Mrs C.
background
Mrs C contacted Homeserve after receiving a renewal letter  for a policy  that she felt was 
providing identical cover to another policy she already had with Homeserve. In addition, the 
policy was in the name of a Mr C who doesnt exist (Ill refer to the policy  in Mrs Cs name as 
policy A and the policy  in Mr Cs name as policy B). Mrs C was concerned that policy  B 
had been set up fraudulently, and that shed been  paying for duplicate cover  for a number of 
years. Homeserve said that policy  A provided additional cover this year that hadnt been included  in 
previous years. So it refunded the cost of the few days where both policies provided  the 
same cover. It also cancelled policy B. It said that prior to the most recent renewal the 
policies provided  different  cover that wasnt duplicated. It also said that policy B being in 
Mr Cs name  was an administration  error  and wouldnt  have affected Mrs Cs ability  to make  
a claim.  
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He felt that before the latest 
renewal the policies provided cover for different  things, so cover wasnt duplicated. He also 
felt that policy  B was most  likely Mrs Cs policy and that the incorrect  name  was an 
administration error.  Mrs C disagreed  with our investigator so the complaint has been  
passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN47540832Insurance is intended to make up for a loss a policyholder suffers  from an insured event. 
Its not intended to put them in a better position, so a policyholder  cant benefit from having 
two policies for the same thing. So its not generally fair that they pay for two of the same 
policies. Ive looked through what Mrs C has told us alongside the policy documentation that 
Homeserve has provided. Up until the policy renewal in 2019 Im satisfied that the two 
policies provided  different  insurance cover. Policy A covered the water  supply pipe and 
specifically excluded cover for internal plumbing and drainage. Policy B on the other hand 
covered internal plumbing and drainage and specifically excluded cover for the water  supply 
pipe. So I disagree  with Mrs C that she was doubly  insured. 
At the 2019 renewal, the cover under policy A changed to the extent that it also covered 
plumbing and drainage.  It was only at this point  that Mrs Cs cover was duplicated. But 
Homeserve offered a refund of the duplicated  premium Mrs C paid whilst policy B remained 
in force.  That is a fair resolution.
With regards to whether  or not policy  B was Mrs Cs at all Ive considered  everything  that 
weve been told. Homeserve isnt able to provide us with the application  information  so it 
cant say for sure whats happened. But it believes it was an application completed by Mrs C, 
however an administration error on inputting the information meant that letters  were sent in 
Mr Cs name. This is in my view is entirely  plausible, especially considering that the first and 
second initials used  in the letters to Mr C and Mrs C were the same.  
As well as this, Mrs C has sent a cheque  payment  for both the policies  since they were taken 
out despite the incorrect name on the policy Bs letters.  She told us she believed they were 
both her policies, and that she thought  it was just an administration  error. So it seems  like 
shes been aware of the issue with the name,  and not questioned it for a number of years  
thinking it was her policy. It was only raised when she thought she had duplicated  cover.
I think its more likely than not that both policies  were  taken  out by Mrs C and there was an 
administration error  in the name placed  on policy  B. Had that error not occurred, I think 
Mrs C would still have continued paying  for both the policies. So I dont think  shes  been 
disadvantaged by the error. And I dont therefore think  its fair to ask Homeserve to refund  
anything due to the error.
Id like to finally comment on an issue Mrs C raised in response to the investigators  
conclusion. In summary, she said she was elderly,  living on her own and had deteriorating 
eyesight. And because  of this she didnt think any policy should be authorised  unless 
someone like a relative or friend  was involved  to oversee things because  being elderly 
youre not aware of what youre signing  up for. She further intimated that if she had such  a 
person to guide her she wouldnt have taken out the extra  policy cover.
I understand Mrs Cs point about  elderly  people potentially being  more vulnerable compared 
to others.  But its too much of a generalisation  in my opinion to work  on the basis  that all 
pensioners are vulnerable and to say that they dont know what  theyre  signing up to. 
Nevertheless, Homeserve  does have an overriding duty to treat customers fairly. So if its 
aware of a customers particular vulnerability it should take that into account  when dealing 
with that person. But if Homeserve isnt aware  (and Ive not seen  anything  to show that it 
was here)  either because its customer hasnt told it or because  the customer  isnt showing  
any particular signs of vulnerability  then its difficult for it to take it into account.
Ref: DRN47540833In this case Homeserve  provided Mrs C with sufficiently clear  documentation to explain the 
cover she was buying. It recognised that it should have done more  to recognise the 
duplication in cover from 2019 when  the cover  under  policy  A was increased, but it 
satisfactorily resolved  that by refunding the duplicated premium and cancelling  policy  B.
If Mrs C has any issues  with or complaints  about policy A going forward  eg in respect of 
the cover  provided  by the policy or whether Mrs C still wishes  to have that policy  she will 
need to contact Homeserve about  that in the first instance. And if Homeserve is unable  to 
resolve any complaint  to her satisfaction  she will be free to bring a new complaint to us if she 
wishes.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to as Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4754083