K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Miss S consider Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (Halifax) mis-sold them  
two home  insurance  policies. 
background
In 2008, Mr L and Miss S took out a home insurance  policy through  Halifax.  The policy 
provided buildings and contents cover. It also included legal expenses  cover.  The policy  cost 
£324.53. By 2011, the policy cost £473.38.  
In 2012, Mr L and Miss S removed the legal expenses cover, no claims discount  protection  
and also amended the details of the property. This resulted in the premium going  down to 
£352.61.
In 2013, Mr L and Miss S moved property. They took out another policy  through  Halifax  and 
cancelled the earlier policy. Their new policy provided buildings  and contents cover  and cost 
£286.28.
Both policies  provided unlimited cover. And both sales were conducted in branch. 
Mr L and Miss S chose  not to renew  in 2016 cancelling their home insurance. Mr L and 
Miss S subsequently obtained alternative insurance  for around £135 for the year. As Mr L 
and Miss Ss alternative  insurance  cost less, Mr L and Miss S considered they hadnt  been 
sold the right policy by Halifax. 
Mr L and Miss S say they paid too much for their insurance and this was because  both 
policies they took out provided  unlimited  cover which they didnt need. They also 
considered unlimited cover to be false advertising.  Mr L and Miss S explained Halifax should 
have sold them a policy with limited cover  so a buildings and contents  insurance policy  that 
provided cover up to a set amount. So Mr L and Miss S say they should be refunded  some 
of cost of the insurance they have  paid over the years for both policies.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought Halifax hadnt done anything 
wrong.
As Mr L and Miss S disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been  passed  to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr L and Miss Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN48807652Mr L and Miss Ss main  concern is about  the type of home insurance they were sold by 
Halifax in 2008  and 2013. I note there  was some confusion as to who should  be responsible 
and who the complaint should be against.  The policies were sold by Halifax  and not the 
underwriter/insurer. So Halifax  is responsible  for answering this complaint.
Halifax has provided information to show in 2008 and 2013 it only offered home insurance  
that provided unlimited  cover in branch. It says other home  insurance  policies that provide 
limited cover for a set amount (often  referred to as sum insured) were available  but these 
were only available  through  its online  or telephone sales channels. 
Mr L and Miss S say information about all Halifax insurance products should be made  
available in branch. But Halifax could choose what products it wished to offer through its 
various sales channels.  
So, in Mr L and Miss Ss case, the only home insurance product available for the adviser to 
recommend was a home insurance policy that provided unlimited cover. When  
recommending any insurance product to its customers, Halifax  had a responsibility  to ensure 
that its recommendation was suitable.
Mr L and Miss S say the policies recommended werent suitable as they didnt  need  
unlimited cover. While  a policy providing  unlimited cover might be more expensive  than other 
types of home insurance policy, this doesnt mean  it wasnt  suitable  for them.  
Mr L and Miss S wanted  and needed a policy that would insure their home and its contents. 
And this needed  to be affordable to them. The policy they were sold met these needs, so it 
was suitable. They also had the added assurance that they wouldnt find themselves 
underinsured. 
Im also mindful that, in 2008, it was noted that the policy was cheaper  than Mr L and 
Miss Ss previous policy. And Mr L and Miss S agreed to take out both policies knowing the 
cost. They  didnt have  to accept the quotes they were given if they were unhappy with the 
cost or level of cover. 
Mr L and Miss S say that unlimited cover  is false advertising. I think it is clear  that using the 
terminology unlimited cover  enables an insurer to differentiate between its products. So 
between an insurer only providing cover up to the set sum insured amount against an insurer 
covering the total loss no matter the cost. This may not have been explained clearly at the 
point of sale, but I dont think it would have  made  a difference to Mr L and Miss Ss choice to 
take out the policies  at the time of each  sale, for the reasons I have explained above. In 
short, it was a policy that was suitable and met their needs.
Mr L and Miss S say that the cost of their policies  increased over the years  and if they 
were paying  for unlimited  cover  then surely the premium should have remained at a fixed 
amount. But this isnt how an unlimited (or any other type of home  insurance) policy works.
The home insurance market has become ever more  increasingly competitive. It isnt 
uncommon for insurers to initially price  a policy at a lower cost than the true cost associated 
with the risk of insuring  a property. This is to attract new customers. Insurers aim to keep the 
consumer and recoup  that cost over the subsequent years. I dont think this unfair and its 
been confirmed  that both policies taken out by Mr L and Miss S in 2008 and 2013 received 
an initial discount  which would have been  recouped over the subsequent years. 
Ref: DRN48807653Also, even with an unlimited policy, the premium will be based on how much  risk the insurer 
thinks a particular property presents. An insurer will often revisit  the risk and premiums may 
go up or down accordingly.  Insurers will assess and treat risk differently  and will charge 
different premiums based on that assessment of risk. One insurer  may think  a property 
poses a significant risk, whereas another insurer might not. Ultimately,  its up to an insurer to 
decide what it charges  for insurance   and I dont have the power to tell an insurer  whether 
that price is right or wrong.  
Mr L and Miss S think  because they got a new policy around £135 in 2016, this shows they 
were being  overcharged. I do understand why they think  this and why they think they may 
have been overcharged over the years they held the policy.
But I am mindful the new insurance they got with another  provider was likely  to have 
included a new customer discount. As I have explained above, I think  its fair that an insurer  
recoups that discount over the subsequent  years. I dont think  its fair to expect an insurer to 
maintain that discount for the duration someone  has their policy. So the new policy  Mr L and 
Miss S obtained, while cheaper at the outset, is likely to increase in price  over the coming 
years.
There could be a number  of other reasons  why the alternative insurance was cheaper,  with 
different levels  of cover, excesses and service  available and which  can differ from insurer  to 
insurer.
But it doesnt mean Halifax was wrong to recommend its home  insurance  policy that 
provided unlimited cover in 2008 and 2013.  
Overall, Halifax  at the point Mr L and Miss S took out their policies  in branch in 2008  and 
2013, only offered  a home insurance policy that provided unlimited cover. Given what Ive 
said above, I cant fairly say that the policies  were unsuitable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4880765