K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Capital  One (Europe) plc (Capital  One) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mr M took out a PPI policy in August 2004 at the same time as taking a credit card. 
Mr M complained he had been  mis-sold  the policy. Our adjudicator didn't uphold the 
complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion, so the complaint has been passed  
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
Mr M applied  for the PPI on-line. This means Mr M would have been  able to complete the 
application in his own time and space. Capital One says PPI was only added  to Mr Ms 
account because  it was requested, and that if he hadnt selected it on his application, it 
wouldnt have been added.
Ive considered what I have seen of Capital Ones internet sales  process  from around  the 
time, and from what I have seen the applicant would have had to actively select  for the policy 
to be added to their account. And Ive seen  no persuasive reason to think Mr Ms application 
process would  have been any different to this. Ive also seen a copy  of screen shots showing 
a record of the answers Mr M gave in his on-line  application at the time. These  show  a Y in 
the box for PPI  indicating that Mr M answered yes to the question  about whether he 
wanted the policy.
So on this basis, I think its more likely than not that Capital One made it clear that Mr M 
didn't have to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it  although  I can understand why he 
cant remember this now. 
Capital One didn't recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didn't have to check  if the policy  was 
right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to decide  if 
the PPI was right for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been and Mr M feels  strongly he wasnt given enough information about the 
policy. But he chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  so it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put Mr M off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN40609202Mr M has said he would receive  employee benefits if he wasnt able to work  of up to three  
months pay. But if he had made a successful claim the PPI would have paid 10% of Mr Ms 
outstanding balance for up to 12 months. So any employee benefits he may have received 
could have been used for other  essential outgoings. 
Mr M has also told us he had savings he could have used of between  three  and six months 
worth of salary to cover his credit card repayments. But the policy would have ensured any 
savings Mr M had could have remained intact for their original purpose or other  emergency.
Mr M has said he could have  relied  on his family for help if he had needed to. But their own 
financial circumstances may have changed so their offer of help could not have been 
guaranteed. 
So I think the policy would have been  useful for Mr M in what would have been a difficult 
time if he wasnt able to work. And I dont  think better information  about the cost and benefit 
of the policy  would have affected  his decison  take out the cover.  
Ive taken into account Mr Ms comments about his other financial means and his concerns 
about the level of information he was given at the time of the sale,  but because of what  Ive 
said, these points dont  change my mind.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained above,  I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4060920