K820x#14complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) T/A Barclaycard didnt correctly  
investigate and pay full compensation for the complaint she made  in 2012 about the mis-sale 
of payment protection insurance (PPI) on her credit card.
background
In 2012, Miss S complained to Barclays that she had been  mis-sold  PPI on her credit card.
Barclays upheld Miss Ss complaint and offered her £979.41 in November 2012.  Miss S 
accepted the amount Barclays had offered. The compensation  was then paid directly to 
Miss Ss account of choice in March 2013.
Miss S says that she tried to contact  Barclays directly in 2017  and in 2018 to see if she had 
received full compensation for her complaint.
Miss S says that she didnt hear from Barclays so she enlisted a claims management 
company (CMC) to act on her behalf.
The CMC wrote to Barclays in March 2018.  Barclays then subsequently in June  2018  
revisited what it had offered Miss S as compensation. It worked out that Miss S was owed a 
further £5,943.28.
Miss S is unhappy because she had to pay a part of her compensation to the CMC.
Miss S felt that Barclays should have got her compensation right in 2012  and because it 
didnt, and because  Barclays  didnt respond to her, she had to instruct  a CMC to act on her 
behalf. Miss S feels that Barclays should  compensate her to the amount that she has had to 
pay her CMC in fees.
Barclays disagreed  saying there was no requirement for its consumers to engage the 
services of a third party, at any time during their PPI complaints process.
Unhappy Miss S brought  her complaint  to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Miss S complaint  and didnt uphold it.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its been agreed that Miss Ss PPI policy has been mis-sold, so in this decision I wont be 
looking into how the PPI policy  came to be sold. And Miss S isnt querying  that amount  of 
compensation that she has now received.  So I wont be looking into how Barclays has 
calculated its latest offer.
Miss S is complaining that Barclays should have calculated her compensation correctly in 
2012  meaning  she wouldnt have had to use a CMC and incurring additional costs. So, to 
be clear,  within this decision, I will be focusing  on this particular point.
Ref: DRN46883632I appreciate Miss Ss frustration about  the whole situation. And Ive considered  her complaint 
very carefully. And I know this will disappoint Miss S, but after looking at all the information, I 
wont be upholding her complaint. I dont think Barclays  need  to pay the fees Miss S 
incurred. And Barclays dont need  to do anything further. Ill explain why.
Miss S complained to Barclays in 2012. And Barclays  offered what it thought was fair 
compensation at that time.
Miss S says she tried to contact Barclays in 2017  and 2018  to see if she had received a full 
refund of everything  she had paid. And because she didnt  hear from Barclays,  she enlisted 
a CMC to act on her behalf.
Barclays says it has no record of any direct  contact from Miss S about  her PPI compensation 
in 2017 or 2018. The first contact it had was from the CMC in March  2018.
I have no reason to doubt Barclays records. So while its possible Miss S contacted 
Barclays when she says she did, on balance the evidence I have suggests  she didnt. I cant 
see that Miss S raised a complaint about  Barclays not responding and its not something the 
CMC mentioned when  a complaint was raised on her behalf.
I dont know why Barclays got Miss Ss compensation wrong in 2012; it could be for a 
number of reasons.  But Miss S didnt query the amount back in 2012 when Barclays  
informed her of the compensation  amount. But I could understand Miss S believing  that what  
she was being  offered  at the time had been  worked  out correctly. So I am glad to see that 
Barclays were  willing  to look at what it had paid Miss S even though  so many years had 
passed since it had initially paid compensation. And after reviewing what  it had offered and 
paid Miss S in 2012/3 it worked  out she was owed more.
Overall, Miss S didnt  have to use a CMC  to get in touch  with Barclays, and there is no 
evidence that she had contacted Barclays herself  directly and got no response. So I cant 
fairly say that Barclays has done  anything wrong  when  there  is no evidence to suggest it did. 
From what  I can see, when it received communication from the CMC about Miss Ss 
complaint, it acted. 
It therefore follows that I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
 
I note that Miss S says she is unhappy  with her CMC. Unfortunately that is not something I 
can consider in this decision. I understand Miss S has now raised  her formal concerns to the 
CMC.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2019.
Ref: DRN46883633Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4688363