K822xcomplaint
Mr Ts unhappy  that Aviva Insurance  Limited  didnt tell him a claim had been made and 
settled against  his motor insurance policy in 2015  and that it was recorded  as a fault claim.
background 
Aviva said in its final response that a claim was reported by a claims management company 
in November 2015. It said Mr T had changed lanes and hit another  vehicle. Aviva says it 
logged this for notification purposes and was told Mr T didnt want to claim for his own 
damage. Based on this information  it had accepted liability  for the accident and paid the third 
partys claim, closing the claim in May 2016. It said it had told Mr Ts broker.  In August 2018 
Mr T had confirmed  he had changed  lanes and it had said this would remain a fault incident  
on his policy. As it later couldnt confirm if the claims management company was acting on 
Mr Ts behalf,  it had allowed Mr Ts No Claims Bonus  (NCB)  as a goodwill gesture and 
provided a letter conforming this.
Mr T remained unhappy and said the incident  still financially impacts him.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. She said:
Its not for us to decide who is at fault for an incident. But we can look at how Aviva  
has handled the claim. Mr Ts policy allows Aviva to decide  how to deal with a claim 
and it can make a decision about  the claim which a policy holder doesnt agree with.
Here theres no evidence that when this incident was reported by a claims 
management company Aviva  contacted  Mr T to discuss his version of events.  Mr T 
says he wasnt to blame and was never  contacted by Aviva  to give his version of 
events. It also hasnt  been able to get a copy of the alleged call between Mr T and 
the claims management company in which he is said to have admitted liability.
Aviva  says it would  generally ask an insured  for their version of events although if a 
claim is reported by a third party it wouldnt generally contact the insured unless there  
was an inconsistency.  That isnt fair.
Aviva  shouldve contacted Mr T when  the claim was presented  by the claims 
management company. But it didnt do so and theres nothing to show  Mr T admitted  
liability for the accident. She cant say Aviva  has completed a thorough  investigation 
of the claim.
Aviva  should remove  the fault marker from Mr Ts insurance record and pay him 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Aviva says it agrees  with the investigators view as without  the calls it is unable  to evidence  
what happened. It says it will issue a letter to Mr T to state  the claim has been marked  non-
fault against him and his NCB will remain allowed.
Mr T doesnt agree and says the view isnt fair. He says he wasnt  aware of this claim until 
August 2018 when  another  insurer told him his premium had been increased due to this 
claim in 2015. He remains unhappy  with the way Aviva dealt with him once  he contacted it 
and says his premiums have increased since as a result of this being  marked as a fault 
Ref: DRN45499032claim. Hes spent over £200 on these  increased  premiums. He has asked for an ombudsman  
review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Aviva  shouldve handled this matter better.  
It isnt clear now whether  Mr T had asked the claims management company to deal with the 
incident or if he spoke  to it he accepted  liability. But it isnt disputed that the incident 
occurred in 2015. As a result I think its fair for the incident to be recorded on Mr Ts 
insurance history. But I think Aviva  shouldve reasonably contacted Mr T in 2015 to get his 
version of events and in the absence of further  evidence I dont think  its fair for it to be 
recorded as a fault claim. Consequently I agree with the investigator  that this incident should 
be marked as a non-fault claim on Mr Ts record.
Aviva has agreed to change Mr Ts insurance  record and provide him with a letter  explaining 
things. Thats fair. And I think it should be possible for Mr T to refer to his amended  history  
and send this letter to his current and past insurers to ask for a possible refund of premium. 
It will also be possible for him to present this letter to future insurers, if needed, when he 
renews his policy  or takes out a new one.
As a result I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require  Aviva to reimburse Mr T for any 
additional premiums  he has paid or will have to pay for his insurance.
If having advised other insurers of the change to his record  Mr T remains unhappy about  the 
premiums he has paid or will pay to other  insurers since he was with Aviva he will need to 
take that up with the individual insurers involved.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I also agree with the 
investigator that an award of £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
is fair.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Aviva Insurance Limited  should,  if it hasnt done 
so already:
1.Amend Mr Ts insurance history to show  the 2015 incident as non-fault and send him 
a letter  confirming this: and
2.Pay Mr T £100 compensation.
Aviva must pay the compensation  within  28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr T accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest* on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires Aviva  to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr 
T a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN45499033Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4549903