K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about British  Gas Insurance Limited. He isnt happy  about the way it 
dealt with a claim under  his home  emergency policy.
background
I considered this complaint and outlined the background to the case and my thoughts in my 
provisional decision as follows;
Mr Ms boiler  wasnt working properly and he asked British Gas to attend. It missed the initial 
appointment and when  its engineer  did attend the property a few days later they refused to 
look into the problem.  This was because there  wasnt sufficient money  on the gas metre  to 
work on the boiler.
Mr M felt that the £3 that was on the metre shouldve been enough to undertake the checks.  
Mr M said he offered to go and top up the metre  so that the work  could be undertaken but 
the engineer said they couldnt wait.
When Mr M complained to British Gas there  was a breakdown in communication  between 
both sides which led to a delay for a few weeks before a follow  up appointment was made. 
British Gas acknowledged its delays and offered £50 compensation. But Mr M didnt think 
that its offer covered  all the inconvenience  caused. The property was without heating in 
winter for a few weeks and so he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him. She acknowledged that things were delayed  and 
thought that both sides contributed to the breakdown in communication which  led to the 
delay in arranging  the follow up repair. So she felt that British  Gass offer of £50 
compensation was fair.
As Mr M didnt agree the matter has been  passed  to me for review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im currently  minded to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive listened to a number  of calls between  British Gas, the consumer and the attending 
engineer. I can understand why Mr M was frustrated that the engineer  wouldnt work on the 
boiler.
But it is clear that the gas metre had gone  into the emergency supply and Im sure the 
engineer needed to be sure that there was sufficient gas available to undertake  the 
necessary checks and repairs. I can understand that this must have been frustrating for
Mr M, especially as the engineer wouldnt wait while he topped  the metre up. But I dont think
the engineer was acting unreasonably  by saying that he needed sufficient money in the gas 
metre to undertake  his checks or by moving  onto his next appointment rather than hanging 
around waiting  for the metre to be topped up.
But it was clear when  Mr M called to complain  about this that he was still without heating and 
hot water. British  Gas looked  to make an appointment  a week  later and misunderstood  what  
Ref: DRN48455562Mr M was saying.  Having listened to the call it is clear that British  Gas just focussed  on his 
complaint as opposed to trying to help Mr M and get someone out to repair  his boiler. 
Although Mr M clearly wanted to complain he still wanted his boiler fixed.  As it was the
middle of winter I dont  think it was unreasonable for Mr M to expect this to be followed up.
In fact it wasnt followed up until he complained again a few weeks later. Although  I accept 
he couldve  done more  to find out what was happening it was clear  his position hadnt  
changed. He still didnt have heating and hot water and British  Gas shouldve arranged  a 
follow up appointment. And not left it for Mr M to advance things himself and leave the 
property without heating  and hot water  for a few weeks.
I dont think that £50 compensation covers all of this, especially when British  Gas had 
already missed an appointment. So I think that the fair thing  to do is to lift the compensation 
from £50 to £150. It mustve been stressful for Mr M to be left in this position and had to 
rearrange things  when he believed, understandably, that things were in hand and British Gas 
would simply re-attend.
Finally, Ive seen some  photographs of damp  that Mr M says was caused  at his property. 
And although I accept  British Gas shouldve rearranged a follow appointment quicker I dont 
think it can be held responsible for this as this level of damp is unlikely to have been caused  
in a few weeks  period.
replies
British Gas responded to say that it felt that it that the offer it had already made was 
reasonable and Mr M didnt provide  any further  comment.
my final decision
As both sides havent provided any fresh evidence or comment I dont propose to go over 
the detail again here.  
As I havent  been  presented with any further representations that would change my view I 
remain of the opinion that this complaint should  be upheld and that Mr M should  be awarded  
£150 compensation, as opposed  to £50. 
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require British Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr M £150  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4845556