K821x#15Complaint
Mr H is unhappy with UK Insurance Limited (UKI). He says following an accident,  UKI failed
to repair  his car in line with the terms and conditions of his motor  insurance policy.  He
complains that UKI turned his claim down due to wear and tear without properly investigating
the cause of the damage. Mr H also says he had to arrange for the fault to be investigated
himself and pay for all the related garage costs.
Background
Mr H had comprehensive motor insurance policy with UKI. He made a claim on the policy
following a non-fault road traffic  accident which took place on 5 September 2018.
Another driver collided into the rear of Mr Hs car and caused damage  to the rear bumper, 
which UKI replaced. The boot lid was also damaged, and Mr H says as soon as he drove 
away from the accident, he noticed  the traction  control light had come on and the car was 
juddering when he went around corners.
Mr H made  UKI aware of the issue with the light and the juddering as he said this wasnt
happening before  the accident.  The vehicle was inspected  by UKIs appointed garage  at the 
time. It repaired  the bodywork, carried out a diagnostic test and changed the glow plugs. The 
car wasnt taken for a test drive to check if the issue with the traction light was resolved but
returned to Mr H on 24 September  2018. The appointed garage said the juddering was
caused by wear and tear and by an existing fault, so repair of the car wasnt covered  by the
policy. UKI confirmed a courtesy  car would no longer  be available  as it had carried  out the
repairs it thought  were needed  under the policy. The juddering continued, however, and the
traction light still came on.
In October  2018, UKI issued a final response  saying the engineer from the appointed  garage 
had decided the fault couldnt have been caused  by the accident. UKI said Mr H needed to 
prove the fault was as a result of the car accident, as the investigation UKI did hadnt 
suggested the fault was related to the accident.
Mr H asked an independent  garage to inspect  the car which identified the warning light 
appeared to be related to the traction  control  system. The rear wheel  components and the 
sensor were  cleaned by the independent garage. Initially, the warning light didnt come  on 
again, but Mr H had to return  to that garage  as there  was still an intermittent problem.  The 
garage couldnt say for sure what had caused the fault.
Mr H wrote again to UKI to update  it on what had happened. He pointed out the issues
should have been properly investigated and identified by UKIs own appointed  garage just
after the accident.
In November 2018, UKI issued another final response which  confirmed it had reviewed the
report from the independent garage but it said there was no confirmation the fault was
caused by the accident.  It said the external damage caused at the rear of the car was
repaired and the issue with the traction light and juddering stemmed  from wear and tear.
This, it said,  was a maintenance issue, as proven in UKIs appointed garages report from 
September 2018.
In December 2018, Mr H wrote to UKI again.  He said UKI hadnt  offered any support in
identifying the fault with the car or in getting that repaired. He wanted  to know  how UKI had
Ref: DRN46514352decided the fault couldnt have been  caused  by the accident when it hadnt even established
the cause of the traction control light coming  on or why the car was juddering.
Mr H updated UKI on further developments with the state of the car. He said he had to take
the car back  to his own garage as the juddering had re-occurred. He confirmed hed suffered
financial loss which all stemmed from attempting to identify the fault and to repair the car
following the accident. He said this should  have been covered under the policy.
UKI responded to Mr H on 4 January 2019  and apologised for not responding to his
concerns. It awarded Mr H £50 in recognition  but said the correct process was followed by
its appointed garage in that it would have been  expected to carry out a diagnostic test. It 
said, a test drive wouldnt have been expected.
Mr H replied to UKI and said the £50 offer didnt go far enough to compensate him for what
he considered  to be a breach of the terms of the insurance policy. He referred  to the policy
and said, in line with this, UKI was obliged to pay to repair the damage or settle the claim by
sending a cheque  or bank  transfer. And despite requests, he hadnt received an explanation
as to why the fault was due to wear and tear or why exclusion  for loss caused by wear and
tear had been applied  under  the policy. He said hed incurred costs  of £593.68 which  hed 
like to be compensated for as a result  of everything that had happened.
Mr H referred  the complaint to this service.  Our investigator thought  it should  be upheld. She
said she didnt think it was fair for UKI to treat the damage as wear and tear as it hadnt
properly investigated  the issue. She thought  it was more likely than not that something was
dislodged at the time of the accident,  causing  the issue with the traction control  light even
though the independent garage  couldnt  confirm if the fault was caused by the accident. She
recommended that UKI should pay Mr H:
£70 for the loss of use of his car;
£117 for the cost of fixing the issue with the sensor;
£150 for the stress  and inconvenience  caused because not all his complaint  points  
were responded to and for the trouble of having to fix the issue  himself.
Mr H agreed with the investigators outcome  of the complaint  but didnt agree with the 
amount of compensation she recommended. Mr H asked for an ombudsman to decide.  So, 
the complaint  was passed to me.
Mr H said:
While  the recommendation went some  way to compensate him for the related costs,  
theres no recognition  of the fact UKI hadnt  initially  repaired damage  to the car;
UKI should have  investigated and identified the issue  itself. It hadnt bothered to 
investigate the issue and tried instead, wrongly, to rely on an exemption  under the 
policy. 
UKI responded and thought the investigators  assessment was fair and reasonable.
Mr H wrote to UKI and to us in October 2019  and said issues with the car had further
developed. He no longer  felt safe driving the car as while the traction  light hadnt come on,
he experienced intermittent juddering. He had therefore  left the car parked on his driveway
and purchased another vehicle. He felt there  was no guarantee that any further work on the
car would fix the problem  completely and didnt want to spend  any further money on the car.
Ref: DRN46514353Mr H also confirmed that UKI had since been  in contact with him and offered to send out an
engineer to inspect  the car. However,  he said the car couldnt  be driven any longer  and a
diagnostic report wouldnt alone  be able to identify the original fault.  So UKIs offer to send
an engineer was too late.
He said he wanted  UKI to do the following:
Pay the market  value of his car as at September 2018, as UKI failed to repair  (or 
even investigate) the fault that hes experienced since  the date of the accident;
Arrange for removal of the vehicle from his property; and
Reimburse him for the costs hes incurred to date as a result of UKIs  failure  to 
honour the insurance policy,  including the most recent taxi cost and garage  costs.
UKI responded to Mr Hs letter  of October 2019 and agreed it should have arranged  a proper 
inspection of his car to determine what the problem was at the time of the accident. It
offered Mr H £200 in recognition of this. Mr H didnt  accept the offer.  The car was inspected  
by UKI in October 2019  which Mr H agreed  to.
The report  said:
We have diagnosed  the fault as follows:
The traction control is cutting in when it shouldnt due to both rear driveshafts
corroded & swollen  on the reluctor wheel for the wheel speed sensors & is rubbing
on the sensors.
I updated Mr H on what we found , and advised this is a wear & tear issue  due to
the age & mileage  of the vehicle and await his reply on how to proceed.
Mr H didnt agree with those findings and maintained that had the car not been
involved in the accident, he would still be driving it. He says hes experienced the juddering
intermittently since the accident and given  up attempting to identify  the fault and given up
trying to get the vehicle repaired.
I issued my provisional decision on 18 February  2020. I was minded to partially uphold  the 
complaint. I believed the key issues were as follows:
UKI maintained damage to the driveshaft was as a result  of wear and tear due to the 
age and mileage  of the car. It relied  on the exclusion of wear  and tear and declined to 
repair it. So the issue at this point that I was left to decide was whether UKI had 
relied on the exclusion fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy; 
and
UKI offered Mr H £250 compensation as a result  of the way it handled  his claim and 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.  So the second issue  for me to decide  was 
whether I thought  that represented fair and reasonable  compensation for what  had 
happened.
The claim
I started  by looking at the terms and conditions of the policy  regarding  what was and wasnt
covered when damage was caused to the car. The specific section in the policy
document stated  if there was damage  to a car, UKI would  provide cover and there were 
three options listed. They were:
1. To pay to repair the damage or repair the damage  themselves;
Ref: DRN465143542. Replace what was lost or damaged (if this was more cost effective than repairing  it) or;
3. Settle the claim by sending a cheque or through bank transfer.
There was an exclusion and that said cover wouldnt be provided  if loss or damage was 
caused by wear and tear.
The rear bumper was replaced. While UKI initially didnt properly investigate  what  caused 
the traction control  light to come on and what  caused the juddering, it did so following further 
updates provided  by Mr H. It provided information  from the most recent inspection of the car 
(October 2019) and said the issue was caused by wear and tear due to the age and mileage 
of the car. While the inspection had been  carried  out, it took UKI over a year to reach this 
conclusion. 
Between September 2018 and October  2019, independently, Mr H attempted  to find out
what was causing  the issues and tried to get the car repaired. UKI also asked Mr H to 
provide a report from an independent garage  to show the damage was caused by the 
accident. The independent garage  managed  to fix the issue  with the traction control  light 
through a process of elimination. But both light issue and the juddering continued 
intermittently. Mr H spent £593.68 in order to try and identify the cause of the damage.  
However, the independent garage  couldnt  conclusively say the traction  control light and 
juddering happened as a result of the accident.  The engineer from this independent garage 
said the accident could have caused  the fault. But the garage couldnt say either way for 
sure.
So, on the one hand, I had the manufacturers garage (arranged by UKI in October 2019) 
confirming the issue was caused because  of wear and tear. And, I also had the evidence  
from the independent garage  (used  by Mr H) confirming it couldnt conclusively say, either  
way, damage was directly  caused  by the accident. I also had to consider the age and 
mileage of the car.
On the other hand, I had Mr Hs account that he had no issues  with the traction control  light
or juddering prior to the accident.  
I appreciated what Mr H said, but given  the supporting information from the two inspections, 
it was difficult for me to say the issues only happened after the accident.  
As such,  I made a provisional decision.  I was minded to think  it was more  likely damage was 
caused as a result of wear and tear rather than the accident.
As such,  I thought the claim to repair the damage had been fairly declined  in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy  albeit,  it took UKI a long time to do this (which I looked 
at separately in the next sub-heading).
I said I understood Mr H felt strongly about  the way UKI had dealt  with the claim. But
eventually, in agreement  with both parties, UKI inspected the car under the policy terms and 
conditions. I also thought had Mr H left the car unrepaired, chased UKI to properly 
investigate and not decided to pay for the repairs  himself, it was likely  he would have been 
left without a car. So, while he went ahead and paid for some  of the repairs,  I was minded to 
think he would have  done this regardless.  This was because Mr H said he needed the car 
and doing the repairs allowed him to continue using it  although  I appreciated it became  
much less cost effective and meant that he had to stop using the car and buy another one.
Ref: DRN46514355In summary,  in all the circumstances  of the complaint, I was minded to think UKI hadnt  
unfairly declined  the claim in using the exclusion of wear and tear under the policy  terms and
conditions.
Trouble and upset
Having looked  at how the claim had been handled,  I agreed that UKI should have handled 
this better. It didnt  investigate the damage  to the car properly following the accident  and 
despite numerous letters Mr H sent to UKI, it took over a year for it to acknowledge it had 
failed to inspect  the car properly. It offered Mr H £200 in addition  to the offer it had made 
earlier in the year of £50. UKI had eventually  inspected the car as it should  have done and 
also acknowledged it should have handled this better.
However, as a result of UKI not dealing with the matter properly at the start, considerable 
delays had been caused in trying to resolve this situation. Mr H also went  through a lot of 
inconvenience and stress related to sorting  this matter out. Had UKI done what it should  
have at the start, much of this could have been  avoided.  I therefore proposed a further 
award of compensation. In doing  so, I also considered that the outcome from UKIs initial  
investigation of the car hadnt  changed from the more recent one in October 2019.
Ultimately, while UKI had already offered Mr H £250 compensation, bearing in mind what
happened, I proposed that UKI award  Mr H a further  £150   making the total compensation
amount to £400.
UKI responded and said it accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
Mr H responded to my provisional decision and didnt accept it. 
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to firstly address  Mr Hs comments that I havent taken all of the evidence hes 
provided into account when I made the provisional  decision. Id like to reiterate comments 
from my provisional decision which state  that while there had been a considerable amount of 
communication on this complaint, I wanted  to reassure Mr H and UKI that I had considered 
everything. However, I wouldnt necessarily refer to each point or even each piece  of 
evidence. I again  confirm everything  thats been  provided has been considered when making  
my final decision. 
Mr H has made several comments in response  to the provisional decision. I confirm  that I 
wont be responding to every  point hes made  but only to those that I consider are relevant.  
In summary,  Mr H has said under  the policy he was entitled to have the car repaired 
following the accident. UKI breached  the terms of the policy  by refusing to investigate the 
fault properly and tried instead to rely on an exclusion  under their terms before they even 
knew that the exclusion was applicable. This caused  Mr H considerable loss both in terms of 
money and time. 
Mr H had ongoing communication  with UKI over the months and, in October 2019, UKI 
agreed to investigate the damage properly. Mr H also agreed for UKI to do this. Up until this 
point, I accept UKI should have handled this better. However, as events transpired, the issue  
Ref: DRN46514356for me was that I had to consider not just the level of award  but whether UKI had fairly dealt 
with the claim and whether it was in line with the terms and conditions  of the policy.
In October  2019, UKI asked the manufacturers  garage to provide a report on the vehicle. 
Mr H says this same  garage also carried out a complimentary vehicle safety check on Mr Hs 
car in November 2018 and he also had a MOT carried out on the car. He says both of these 
would have brought up the issues. The manufacturers garage said the driveshafts were  
visually okay. 
Ive considered this but I cant say how much detail  went into the check itself or whether it 
was carried out for the same purpose. And overall this doesnt necessarily mean damage 
was caused by the accident. The MOT also may not have  had the same level of check  that 
the garage carried out. As such, I have to take into account that the purpose  of the 
inspections/checks might not necessarily have been the same.
Whilst Ive considered the evidence, the crux of the matter  is that UKI inspected  the car in 
October 2018 and October 2019. I dont  take away the fact that UKI should have 
investigated the car properly after the accident. UKI asked Mr H to provide an independent  
report of his car to confirm  the damage was caused by the accident. Mr H couldnt confirm 
this through the independent garage  he took the car to. A year later, in October 2019, UKI 
and Mr H agreed for the car to be investigated.  The conclusion of that was that damage was 
caused by wear and tear. I appreciate UKI hadnt  always handled the claim as it should have 
but even if I take that into account, I cant ignore that there is no evidence  from an 
independent engineer/garage  or from UKI to show its most likely damage  was caused by 
the accident. In absence  of that, on balance, Im satisfied that the claim was fairly declined  
by UKI in line with the terms and conditions of the policy  and due to wear and tear. 
Overall, I remain satisfied  in the circumstances  of this complaint,  £400 is a fair and 
reasonable offer to Mr H for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partially  uphold Mr Hs complaint and require UK Insurance  
Limited to pay Mr H a total of £400 to compensate for his distress  and inconvenience.
UK Insurance Limited  should pay the outstanding amount within 28 days of receiving notice 
of Mr Hs acceptance of this decision. Mr H should  note that if he accepts my decision,  it will 
be legally  binding on all parties and he probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action 
over this matter for additional compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although 
his legal rights will remain intact,  itll be purely a matter between him and UK Insurance  
Limited as to whether the above offer still remains open for acceptance to Mr H.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4651435