K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Nationwide Building  Society misinformed them  during a 
mortgage application in 2015.  
background
Mr and Mrs J approached  Nationwide to discuss their need for a new mortgage in late 2015,  
when they were looking to buy a new home. They received advice from Nationwide  during  a 
face-to-face meeting  at a local branch.
At the time,  Mr and Mrs J already had a mortgage with Nationwide with a balance  of around 
£41,000. Under the terms of that mortgage,  they were charged interest at Nationwides 
standard variable  rate (which it called its Base  Mortgage Rate   BMR). The rate was then 
2.5%. And of significance  to this complaint, the mortgage had a number of flexible features, 
which included the right to make  unlimited overpayments and the option to borrow these 
funds back in the future.
Rather than keep that product and transfer it to their new mortgage (a process  known as 
porting), Nationwide recommended that they take out a new product altogether. It issued a 
mortgage offer in December 2015  for a loan of £95,000, on a fixed rate product of 2.44% for 
5 years.  Under  the new mortgage, Mr and Mrs J no longer had the right to borrow  back  from 
an overpayment reserve as theyd  had previously. Mr and Mrs J accepted  the offer and the 
mortgage duly completed in 2016.
Last year, Mr and Mrs J were looking to borrow some additional funds from Nationwide to 
help their son with a deposit.  During  discussions about this, the borrowback facility theyd 
had in the past came up and they were made aware that they couldve kept this option open 
by porting their previous  product back in 2016. As it was, they had to complete an additional 
borrowing application. Nationwide  offered them a further loan of £18,000 at a fixed  rate of 
2.14%.
Mr and Mrs J complained.  They  said that when applying for a mortgage  in 2015, the adviser 
had explicitly told them that they couldnt keep the product they were on. So theyd only gone 
ahead and reviewed  other  options based  on the understanding that they had no choice but 
to give up their existing deal, along with the borrowback facility. They were also unhappy at 
delays in their additional  borrowing application.
Nationwide upheld their complaint in part, apologising for the delays in the recent application 
and paying £150 compensation. But it didnt agree that Mr and Mrs J had been misadvised 
back in 2015.  It said that as part of its sales process, its adviser wouldve confirmed the 
features of the BMR to Mr and Mrs J to ensure they were comfortable giving them up. More 
broadly, it thought the recommendation had been  suitable  a fixed rate product achieved 
their preference for security  in payments, which the BMR (being a variable rate) wouldnt 
have offered. It also noted that the rate of both the mortgage taken in 2016 (2.44%) and the 
further borrowing  offered  in 2018  (2.14%) were below the current BMR of 2.75%. 
Mr and Mrs J remained unhappy with the advice theyd received in 2015  and referred their 
concerns to us. They were adamant that Nationwide had told them  they couldnt keep their 
existing mortgage  as soon at the very start of their appointment. They  were particularly 
aggrieved at being made out to be lying about  that now.
Ref: DRN47219132One of our investigators  reviewed Mr and Mrs Js complaint but couldnt  see that Nationwide  
had done anything wrong. He said documents completed by the adviser at the time 
suggested both porting  and the borrowback facility had been discussed in some detail. So 
while stressing that this didnt mean  that Mr and Mrs J were being dishonest  in any way 
themselves, he didnt think there was enough evidence to say that Nationwide had done 
anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs J didnt accept our investigators  view. They  said that the points noted  in the 
documents hadnt been discussed  with them and, while not being  able to prove what was 
said, still strongly believed  that they werent given  the option  of porting their previous  
mortgage. So they asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint, and it was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator  and for broadly the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
Theres no recording or documentary evidence of exactly what Mr and Mrs J were told by 
Nationwide when they were given face-to-face  mortgage advice back in 2015. So its difficult 
for me to say with any certainty  what happened. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  we reach  decisions on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what we consider is most likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence that is available.
Ive carefully considered  everything Mr and Mrs J have told us. They  say they were  told 
immediately on beginning their application  that they couldnt port and that was the end of the 
matter. There  was no further discussion on retaining  their existing arrangements and so the 
transaction proceeded on that basis. And having listened to Mr and Mrs Js conversations 
with our investigator and reviewed what theyve sent us, theyve consistently maintained 
their account  of the meeting such that I have no doubt that its their genuine  recollection.  
At the same time, Ive also reviewed  the documentation completed at the time that 
Nationwide have sent us. This included a fact find record filled out by the adviser, which  
included some 50 questions upon which she based her recommendation. This record has a 
number of comments that refer to an apparent  discussion with Mr and Mrs J about their 
existing mortgage,  the borrowback facility and the rationale for opting  to remortgage rather 
than port, most notably:
when discussing porting/redeeming  this existing  mortgage product we 
compared the total amount payable  to Nationwides current product range. 
Even though by porting this product  the total amount payable during the 
mortgage term was lower  I recommend you redeem this mortgage as it 
was your overriding  priority to have  a product that offered  stability of 
payments. I made you aware that you would lose the features of the BMR 
product, and you were  happy with this.
You have no need for (the) remaining  funds  in your overpayment  reserve  
and would rather this be wiped on completion. It also meant if you did draw 
this back, it would be on the base  rate, which you didnt want either.  You are 
Ref: DRN47219133aware that I have given  you no advice with regard to whether or not to apply 
to borrow back these  funds and are happy  to proceed on this basis. 
Discussed losing the features of BMR, but you were happy  with this as it was 
your priority to have  stability  in payments.
The documentation  completed at the time,  therefore,  suggests that there  was a conversation 
about the possibility of Mr and Mrs J keeping their mortgage, but that being discounted in 
favour of a new deal.  It also suggests  some fairly detailed  discussion on the borrowback 
feature specifically, and the effect  that opting  to port or remortgage  would have  on it.
Looking at everything, I dont think Mr and Mrs Js recollections are enough for me to safely 
conclude that the adviser  told them they couldnt  keep  their existing mortgage. It seems to 
me most likely that there was some  discussion of porting the previous mortgage, but that 
option was discounted in favour of a number of other changes  that Mr and Mrs J were  
looking to make at the time and the preferences they had in this regard.
All of this, though, is not to say that Mr and Mrs J are lying  as Ive said above,  I dont  doubt  
they are genuine  in their recollections. And Ive not seen anything  that suggests Nationwide  
are accusing  them  of this either. Put simply,  to uphold their complaint  Id need to find it more 
likely than not that the adviser told them they couldnt keep their existing mortgage  and the 
available evidence doesnt support that.
Ive taken into account all of Mr and Mrs Js comments, including their concern that the 2015 
application had to be rekeyed  under a new reference  number.  But I dont see anything  
suspicious in this in and of itself, and it doesnt lead me to dispute  the validity  of the 
documents completed at the time. So these points dont lead me to a different conclusion. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2019. 
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4721913