K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains Santander UK Plc (Santander)  acted  irresponsibly when they approved an 
arranged overdraft facility  with a £250  limit when he opened a current account with them.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 28 January 2020. Ive attached  a copy  to this 
decision. It set out my provisional conclusions. 
Santander told us they had no further  comments,  or additional information.  Mr M told us he 
disputed the findings. He thought there was a clear  lack of substance to Santanders points. 
Ha asked for a number  of points to be passed to the ombudsman.  
The credit  hed applied for was for varying  lengths not just for six months,
Hed chosen this product  because of the overdraft  and he knew  it would  give him 
access to funds  which he badly  needed  and was desperate for,
He wasnt aware  of the costs and interest  that went along with the product. He wasnt 
given the necessary  information about the overdraft  and about the costs involved 
which wouldve made him very aware  of what  was involved  with the overdraft and 
product overall,
Santander should have done more checks on his application given the number of 
applications and amounts of credit hed recently obtained.
Mr M thought overall Santander should have  seen a desperate person applying for further 
credit which would throw them into further debt and financial trouble.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ms points very carefully. I dont doubt what hes told us about being  
desperate for money at the time and how that informed his choice of the product with 
overdraft and his behaviour on the account  once  it was opened.  But from the information 
available to Santander at the time I dont  think they couldve known this for a number of 
reasons. 
I cant see any reference to Mr M telling Santander  of this desperation at the time. He only 
disclosed his financial problems to Santander  after the account had been opened and the 
money withdrawn.
I appreciate Mr Ms sent us extracts of information  from his credit file  by way of a series  of 
screen shots hed selected - in June  2019. That shows some of the other applications for 
lending in 2018 were to named businesses known  to provide high cost credit.  But that 
information wasnt available to Santander  in September 2018. The information that was 
available at the time of the application  in September 2018 didnt give the company details 
like these screen shots. It simply listed the nature of the product - say a store card, bank  
account or an unsecured loan. That information  showed the majority of accounts  seven out 
of ten listed with a satisfactory or unclassified status. Of the other three accounts the worst 
status showing was a two months  delinquency on two accounts,  both of which  had been  
settled a number  of months before  despite  one of them  being  in an arrangement. And the 
Ref: DRN43731702accounts that werent settled were being managed  within  their terms or had a nil balance.  So 
based on this - and on the information  Mr M provided about his circumstances - I think  the 
checks that Santander carried out here were reasonable  and proportionate. 
The information from Santander satisfies me that, as part of the online application process, 
Mr M was provided with the terms and conditions on the account and the Key Facts 
Document. Im satisfied  he was also sent a letter dated 5 September  2018 about the 
arranged overdraft explaining the costs  involved.  So Im not persuaded Mr M wasnt aware 
of the cost and the interest that went along  with this overdraft when he opened the account.
So, although  I anticipate  Mr M will disagree with me, theres  nothing  before me which 
suggest Santander were irresponsible in their lending. So theres nothing  which  changes  my 
conclusions and I dont  see any reason  to alter my view.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN43731703complaint
Mr M complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) acted irresponsibly when they approved an arranged  
overdraft facility with a £250  limit when he opened  a current account with them.
background
On 5 September 2018 Mr M applied  to open a current account with Santander with an approved 
overdraft facility of £250. The application was successful. Mr M brought  his concerns to us as he was 
unhappy when Santander rejected his complaint  in March 2018.  Mr M felt as he had several other 
loans, credit cards and overdrafts it was irresponsible for Santander to approve the overdraft facility 
on this account.
Santander told Mr M when he applied  online  for the account he met the requirements for overdraft so 
was allowed this borrowing  in accordance with their policies. Santander  thought  theyd correctly 
applied the fees to Mr Ms account and acted  in line with the terms and conditions on the account. So 
they told him they didnt accept his claim  that theyd acted inappropriately  and caused the account  to 
fall into an unarranged overdraft.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He thought the six applications  Mr M made for lending facilities  
in the six months  before  his application to Santander  should  have been flagged  as a potential  sign of 
financial strain and should  have caused Santander to investigate further. But the investigator didnt  
feel any compensation for trouble and upset should be awarded here as he found the income and 
commitments Mr M gave to Santander during  his online application were  reasonable to the £250 
overdraft granted. The investigator thought due to Mr Ms inability to make payments Santander 
should refund the charges  which had accrued on the overdraft. And that the overdraft should  be 
removed to prevent further charges accruing. And that a payment plan which  was affordable for Mr M 
should be set up to repay  the money hed borrowed.
Mr M told us he accepted the decision even though he disagreed with it. Santander didnt accept  it 
and asked for an ombudsman to review the case. They made  a number of points.
Their decision was based on the facts provided  by Mr M and the Credit Reference 
Agencies (CRA)  and if the customer confirmed to Santander  they can afford  the credit 
product and there are no adverse entries  in the credit file there would be no clear 
reason to decline the application
It was Mr Ms responsibility  to provide  correct information regarding his financial status.  
The credit  checks  carried out didnt mean the application was automatically  referred to 
an underwriter and in this case the application was system approved in line with 
Santanders policy  and process.
The other credit products  Mr M had applied  for were over a period  of six months  and as 
such didnt  raise  concerns.
Mr M had been free to apply for a different product from Santander  but had chosen to 
apply for this particular account with an overdraft.
The investigator had confirmed  that the information Santander had received from Mr M 
about his employment, income and outgoings suggested he could afford  this product.
The fact that Mr M chose this account and overdraft  when hed been free to apply for 
a different product from Santander  along with his confirmation that he could afford it 
suggested he was aware of the product he was applying for.
From the data present Santander thought there was nothing to support that theyd been 
irresponsible in their lending. The records of the account showed Mr M simply withdrew 
the £250 balance in September 2018 and paid money in the following month but then 
ceased to fund the account.
Ref: DRN43731704my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im of the provisional view that this isnt a complaint 
which I can properly uphold. Ill explain why.
Ultimately its for a bank  to decide what affordability criteria to apply and what  risk it was willing to take 
when it lends  money.  But the industry rules  and guidance  for lenders  although not giving a set list of 
checks - says checks must be proportionate and give examples of factors  to be considered. So Ive 
gone onto consider whether  Santander completed reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy 
itself that Mr M would be able to repay his overdraft in a sustainable way.
Everyone accepts, based on the information Mr M gave about his income and expenditure, the 
overdraft facility was affordable and reasonable. Santander has provided evidence that the account 
and overdraft  applications were made online, and that Mr M met their lending and affordability criteria. 
On the basis of this, and other information provided  by Mr M himself as to his personal circumstances, 
employment, income  and expenditure,  Mr M qualified  for the overdraft amount hed applied for. 
I dont agree with the suggestion  by both Mr M and our investigator  - that Santander  should have 
done more checks following the credit search. The records from Santander satisfy me that the checks  
they carried  out here were reasonable and proportionate. And I think Santanders decision to open the 
account with the overdraft  facility for £250  was a fair one bearing in mind the information  theyd 
received for the CRAs checks from Mr M himself about his circumstances. 
The terms  of this account required Mr M to pay at least £500 a month in and to have two active  direct 
debits running. Ive seen no evidence that hes complied with this. Theres no suggestion  Mr M wasnt 
given the necessary  information about the overdraft, its costs and the general  terms and conditions of 
this account. So I cant find theres  any reason to challenge the interest or charges  applied. But Ill 
consider any further information either  party  send  me by the deadline below.  
Im aware Mr M feels strongly about Santanders conduct.  But I hope Ive explained  why, on the 
information before me at present, Im not persuaded this is a complaint I can fairly and reasonably 
uphold. Mr M chose to spend the money he borrowed and has had the benefit of it. Currently Im not 
satisfied Santander acted irresponsibly when it approved his application  for a current account with 
and overdraft  facility.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that, subject to anything further that Mr M or Santander UK Plc send me by 
28 February 2020, Im planning not to uphold  this complaint.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4373170