K821x#15Complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited  (trading as Very)  
handled the return of a faulty laptop he purchased.
Background
Mr S purchased a laptop from Very. When he received it, he thought it was faulty, so 
contacted Very to arrange  a return.  They  advised  him of the return  process, and Mr S opted 
to send it via the post office, using  a return address which Very emailed  to him.
Very put the cost of the laptop as credit on his account, to allow  for Mr S to order  a 
replacement if he wanted to. 
Mr S rang Very a few days later and asked  for the credit on his account  to be paid into his 
bank account.  This was done.
Very said they didnt not receive the laptop as a return, so debited his account for its cost.
Mr S contacted Very to question why his account  had been  debited.  They said the laptop 
had not been received. Mr S said he no longer had the proof of postage as he thought  that 
as his account had been credited,  that meant the laptop had been received. So he had 
thrown the receipt away.
Very said that without the proof of postage they were unable to refund him.
Mr S complained to Very.  He said he shouldnt have to pay for the laptop as it was faulty,  
and he had returned it as Very had instructed him to do. And he hadnt retained the proof of 
postage as Very had credited his account, and then transferred the credit to his bank  
account, and he thought  this meant  the laptop  had been received.  He also said it was unfair 
that missed payment markers had been  placed on his credit file as a result.
Very didnt agree. They  said that the laptop hadnt  been received by them, and without  proof 
of return he had to pay for it. They also said that as he had missed  the minimum monthly 
payments on his account, they had correctly  marked these on his credit  file. They said they 
were acting within the terms and conditions of his account.
Mr S didnt not accept  this outcome  and complained  to us.
Our investigator was of the view that as Mr S hadnt retained the proof of postage he got 
from the Post Office, it was reasonable for Very to charge him for the laptop. And as Mr S 
hadnt made at least the minimum monthly  payments  on his account, Very were entitled to 
record these as missed payments on his credit file.
Mr S didnt not accept  this view, so the matter has been brought  to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 08 April 2020. In my provisional decision,  I said:
What isnt in dispute, is that Mr S bought a laptop from Very.  He then wanted to return  it so 
contacted Very to arrange  this. I have listened to a recording of this telephone conversation.  
Mr S opted  to send  it back by post, and the process of the return  was, in my view,  explained 
Ref: DRN45789772clearly by Very. This explanation also included the advice that Mr S should retain the proof of 
postage which would  be given to him by the post office.
Mr S says he returned the laptop via the Post Office as agreed. The instructions he was 
given were clear and he was emailed  a return address label. I havent seen anything  to 
suggest that he didnt post it, so on balance I think it is likely that he did.
I think the crux of the matter is the call between  Mr S and Very on 20 February 2019, which 
was about a week later. Having noticed credit on his Very account, he asked  them what  this 
credit meant, and for it to be transferred to his bank  account. This was done,  and Very told 
him his bank account would be credited within 1-10 days. There was no mention of the 
laptop not having been received by them. Very have told us that this was a mistake by the 
call handler, and had they read the notes  on the account they wouldve  seen  that it was an 
advanced credit, and not a true reflection of the account balance  at the time. Had this been 
noticed by the call handler, I think it likely  that it wouldve generated a conversation  about the 
laptop not having been received, and Mr S would  probably still have had the receipt at that 
point.
I think, as Mr S was refunded the credit into his bank  account, it is likely that he thought that 
the returns process had been completed  successfully. And it was reasonable for him to think  
the laptop had been received  and that the proof  of postage receipt wasnt  needed  any more. 
But this was a mistake by Very, not Mr S. And I think Mr S probably threw  away his proof  of 
postage as a result  of Verys mistake. Therefore, I think it is unfair  of Very to hold him 
responsible for the cost of the laptop  because Mr S couldnt any longer prove he had 
returned it as required.
Indeed, Mr S told Very this in his call the following month. He said that as theyd given him 
his money back,  he thought this meant the return had been completed, so hed thrown away  
his receipt. Very advised him to try and get a copy of the receipt  from the Post Office, but 
this was about 5 weeks  after he said hed returned  the laptop.  I think  this was a reasonable 
request by Very,  but given the timescales involved I think it would be unfair to hold Mr S 
responsible for being unable to get one. I think this is something  Very shouldve asked him to 
do sooner.
Having decided that Very probably  acted unfairly in debiting Mr Ss account for the cost of 
the laptop, it follows that I think  the minimum payments required on his account  shouldnt 
have been required. And so, the adverse  markers  on his credit  file due to the associated 
missed payments shouldnt have  been added to his credit file. 
I also think that Mr S has been  caused  some distress and inconvenience by Very. He has 
had to make  and take calls from them, which having  listened to them, were inconvenient and 
had to be fitted around his work.  I havent  seen anything to suggest that the missed payment 
markers Very placed on his credit file have affected  Mr Ss ability to gain credit since this 
mistake, so I think £100 compensation  is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. 
The response  to my provisional  decision
Ref: DRN45789773Mr S has not responded. 
Very responded  disagreeing  with my findings. They said, in summary:
Mr S was told, during the call on 15 February  2019 the credit placed on his account 
was an advance credit, and this process was explained to him. And as such it is not 
reasonable for him to assume the returned  item had been credited
It was unreasonable  for Mr S to assume the credit on his account indicated  the item 
had been successfully returned  as it was only 4 days  after it was sent, when it can 
take up to 14 days  for the credit to be applied. The onus was on Mr S to check  this
It was unreasonable  of Mr S to dispose  of the proof of postage  as soon as he saw 
the credit  on his account, especially  as Very made  it clear he should retain it
some  responsibility must  be placed  on Mr S for failing to keep hold of his proof of 
return as he was asked  and also being  aware of the advance  credit process.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of Verys response to it.
I will deal with Verys points in turn.
Very have said that during the call on 15 February 2019, the advance  credit was explained, 
so he shouldnt have  assumed the item had been  returned. But I dont think  this was the call 
that has caused the complaint. It was the call about 1 week later in which Mr S asked for the 
credit to be transferred  to his bank account. And it was in this call that the call handler made 
the mistake of not noticing that the credit  was an advance  credit.  Had they done  so, they 
probably wouldnt have  transferred  the money,  and I think it most likely that they would then 
have discussed  that the laptop had not yet been received. And it follows  that Mr S would 
probably have  kept his proof of postage.
Very have said that as it was only 4 days after he says the item was returned,  it was 
unreasonable of Mr S to assume  the item had been correctly returned, as it can take up to 
14 days for the credit to be applied and he should have checked. Up to 14 days suggests it 
can be received sooner,  not that it will take at least 14 days.  And I think  Mr S did check, as 
he phoned Very and asked for the credit  to be transferred to his bank account.  I dont think it 
is reasonable to expect  a consumer to check they are entitled  to get something that they are 
asking for. I think it is the business  responsibility  to check, and to only give a consumer what  
they are entitled  to. And Very have acknowledged that they were  at fault here, so I dont 
think Mr S should be held responsible for this.
Mr S has said he only disposed  of the proof of postage after he thought the laptop  had been 
received correctly, so this was a result of the mistake Very made. I dont think it 
unreasonable for Mr S to dispose of a receipt  he no longer thinks he needs.
I agree  that Mr S had a responsibility to retain his proof of postage.  But given what Ive set 
out above, I think it was reasonable for him to assume he longer needed it. I wouldnt expect 
him to keep  it indefinitely.  And as Very had transferred his Very account credit  into his bank 
account, and didnt tell him the laptop  had not been  returned (Verys mistake), I think  it was a 
Ref: DRN45789774reasonable assumption on his behalf  to think the returns  process had been concluded. And it 
was reasonable  for him, at that point,  to dispose  of the proof of postage.
For all of these reasons, and the reasons outlined in my provisional decision, Im satisfied 
the outcome I set out in my provisional  decision is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint.
I direct  Shop  Direct  Finance Company  Limited  to do the following:
Write  off any debt on Mr Ss Very account  incurred from 20 February 2019, including 
any interest and charges
Refund any payments  Mr S made  to his account  in relation to the laptop cost from 
20 February 2019, adding 8% simple until the date of settlement
Arrange for the removal of any adverse markers  Very placed on Mr Ss credit file 
from 20 February 2019 onwards
Pay Mr S £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4578977