K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs S bought the policy in 1999  at the same time as taking out a store card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
 Mrs S says she didnt know the PPI had been  added to her account  and that she 
wasnt given a proper  choice  about buying it. But the store card application form 
included a separate section about  PPI that Mrs S signed to show  that she wanted the 
cover. So without anything else to support what Mrs S has told me, I havent been able 
to safely conclude  that she wasnt made  aware  that she had a choice about buying the 
PPI. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. That means it didnt  have  to ask about  any employer benefits Mrs S might have 
been entitled to, or savings that she had. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But its unlikely Mrs S would have  been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt  cover, so I dont think she needed better  information  about its 
exclusions.
Mrs S has told us she was entitled  to employer sick pay and had some savings. With 
this in mind,  she says she wouldnt have bought the policy  if shed had better 
information about its cost and benefits. But the policy had a reasonable benefit. So Im 
not persuaded that the sick pay and savings Mrs S has referred  to meant the PPI 
wouldnt have been useful to her if she couldnt  work. On balance,  I dont think  better 
information about its cost wouldve stopped her buying it.
Ref: DRN44063352my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4406335