K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims 
management company.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ms credit card account  when he applied  for the card and covered him for accident, 
sickness and unemployment. But he says he wasnt told about it and didnt know  he had it.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  the PPI had 
been sold over the phone and he didnt feel NatWest had shown that Mr M had confirmed 
that he wanted to take the policy out, or that it was made clear that the PPI and the credit  
card were  separate products.
NatWest disagreed with the adjudicators opinion saying, in summary,  that the PPI was 
taken out when Mr M applied for the credit  card during a meeting at a NatWest  branch. It 
couldnt provide  a copy of Mr Ms signed  application form, but it provided us with an example 
of the form that it says Mr M wouldve completed. It said this shows the policy was optional.
my provisional decision
I didnt conclude that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
Mr M recalls that he applied for the credit  card during a phone  call. But NatWest has now 
been able to provide evidence to satisfy me that Mr M applied  for the card at the same time 
he opened another account and that this was during a meeting at one of its branches. 
NatWest has provided examples of the application forms which it says were in use around 
that time.  I think,  in all likelihood,  Mr M wouldve completed such  a form. They included a 
separate section  headed  Credit  Card  Repayment Protector and required  Mr M to sign,  
separately from the card application, if he wanted PPI. So I think NatWest  made  Mr M aware  
that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it  although I can understand why he 
can no longer remember  this, given it took place so long ago.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for 
him.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr M chose to take out the policy and so appears  to have wanted this type of 
cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable.
Mr Ms told us he wouldnt  have received any pay from his employer if he couldnt work due 
to sickness or an accident and that he didnt have any other means, such as savings,  to 
meet his credit card repayments in that situation, or if he lost his job.
So I think the PPI couldve been  a useful  benefit. I think  it unlikely Mr M would have made  a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think  he would still 
have taken out the policy.
Ref: DRN46508812I invited both parties to provide further  evidence and comments.
NatWest said it agreed with my decision.
Mr M and his representative didnt provide any further evidence or comment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or comment in response  to my 
provisional decision, I find no reason to depart from my earlier  conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4650881