K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the handing  of certain  direct  debits  by Barclays Bank UK PLC.
background
Mr C has a buy-to-let mortgage  with Barclays. Hed arranged to make his monthly  
repayments by direct debit from an account  he held with a third party. But for around  eight  
months, there was a problem collecting the direct  debits, so they didnt go through  properly.
Mr C told us that each  time there was a failed he contacted Barclays and was advised to set 
up a new direct debit, but the payments have continued to fail. On two occasions  the failed 
payments meant that Barclays added late payment markers to Mr Cs credit  file.
Barclays told him there was an issue with direct debits coming from the third partys 
accounts in circumstances such as his - where  hed cancelled  a previous direct debit with 
the same  mortgage  reference number. It has arranged for the late payment markers to be 
removed from Mr Cs credit file, so he isnt affected  by this in the future.
Mr C says he was distressed about what happened,  especially  as his credit file was affected. 
And he decided  not to go ahead with a separate mortgage application in case it was declined.
Barclays acknowledged it made several  mistakes.  Along with the late payment markers, it 
had given Mr C incorrect advice about the processing time for the direct debit mandate  and 
advised told him to make  a manual payment. Barclays has paid Mr C £1,555.58 total 
compensation for what happened. That covered  Mr C for arears on his mortgage account,  
lengthy phone calls hed had with Barclays, and his distress and inconvenience. 
Mr C has told us that Barclays  told him that theres  an ongoing problem with direct debits 
coming from his third party bank, and it doesnt know  when  that will be resolved.  So he has 
set up a direct debit to pay his mortgage from another account  now.  That has resolved the 
problem, but it means that he has to transfer money to that account so that it has enough 
money to pay the direct  debit.
Our investigator sympathised  with Mr C about what happened. He acknowledged  Mr Cs 
distress about the matter,  and the amount of time he was affected. But he thought that the 
compensation Barclays has paid him was generous, and in line with that our service  would 
recommend to put matters right. Amongst other things  he was paid £1,350 for distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused.  
In the circumstances, our investigator didnt think it would be fair and reasonable for us to 
require Barclays to pay Mr C more money to resolve this complaint.
Mr C remained  unhappy, so he asked  for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN43030492my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
conclusion our investigator has reached. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mr C has been  seriously inconvenienced by what happened in this 
case. The problem  with the direct  debit meant that for around eight months his mortgage  
payments didnt go through in time. This affected his credit  file. Mr C told us that he has 
been very stressed by this matter,  and I can see why. Amongst other things, he didnt feel 
able to apply for a re-mortgage on another property in the circumstances. Barclays  has also 
accepted it made other mistakes in addition to this.
Barclays has told us it has removed the adverse information from Mr Cs credit file now.  
So what  happened shouldnt  affect  him in the future.  However,  Mr C has told us that the 
ongoing problem  with direct debits coming from his third party  bank means that he has to 
transfer money to another account  each month to pay his mortgage.  I appreciate  that this is 
a source of ongoing  frustration for Mr C. But Im pleased  to hear that he has found  a way of 
paying his mortgage on time despite the ongoing  problem with direct debits coming from his 
third party bank.
Mr C thinks he should be paid more  compensation for what  happened. I understand his 
position. But my role isnt to punish Barclays for its mistakes. I can see that it has paid Mr C 
£1,555.58 for what happened.  £1,350 of that was for the distress  and inconvenience hed 
been caused. I think thats an appropriate level of compensation that fairly reflects the 
substantial impact of Barclays mistakes on him.
For these reasons I dont  think  it would  be fair and reasonable for me to require  Barclays to 
pay Mr C any more compensation for its role in this matter.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC doesnt need to do more  to resolve this 
complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Laura Forster
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4303049