K820x#14complaint
Mrs I has complained about the decision  by Fairmead Insurance  Limited (formerly known as 
Legal & General Insurance Limited) to decline a claim under her home  insurance  policy  for 
damage caused by an escape of water.
background
In December 2018, Mrs I suffered  an escape of water at her property. Her home emergency 
insurer arranged for a plumber to repair the leak which was under  her bath. Fairmead  then 
provided a cash settlement to enable Mrs I to arrange a repair  of the damage which the 
escape of water had caused. Mrs I and her family moved out of the property while  these 
repairs were carried out.
In March 2019, the repairs  were  completed and Mrs I and her family were able to move  back 
in to the property.
On 15 March 2019, Mrs I said she was running a bath when water started entering the 
kitchen below. She rang Fairmead and she says that it authorised her to remove  the bath to 
find and fix the source  of the leak. Mrs I arranged for a plumber to do this. 
Mrs I subsequently  made a claim to Fairmead for damage caused  by the escape of water. 
She said it had occurred because the home  emergency insurers  plumber had damaged her 
bath. She said the escape of water had damaged  joists in the bathroom which consequently 
needed to be replaced. She provided a quote  shed obtained for all the necessary repair 
work which came to £15,000 though  she later provided a quote  for the reduced  amount of 
£9,300.
Fairmead arranged  for its loss adjuster  to visit the property. He attended approximately three 
weeks after the escape of water was supposed to have occurred. He couldnt  find any 
evidence of water damage  and noted  the joists in the bathroom were hidden  below the 
floorboards. He noted the bath had already been removed and some tiles had been  
damaged in the process. He said the bath wasnt available for inspection. He concluded 
there was no evidence of insured damage. On this basis, Fairmead declined the claim.
Mrs I complained to Fairmead  about  its decision.
Fairmead issued a final response  letter  not upholding her complaint. It said that in the 
absence of any evidence  of damage  caused  by an escape of water, there  was no cover  to 
be provided under this section of the policy. It said, however, that if Mrs I could  provide  
further evidence  of the damage to the bath (she had previously provided one photograph), it 
would consider providing cover for this under the accidental damage  section  of the policy.
Mrs I was unhappy at Fairmeads response. She referred her complaint to us. She also 
provided further photographs of the damage  to the bath.
While the complaint was under investigation, Fairmead agreed to offer £2,000 in settlement 
of the claim for accidental  damage to the bath.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In her view,  
Fairmead had acted fairly in declining the claim for damage caused by an escape of water. 
Ref: DRN44643152She was also satisfied that it had made  a fair offer in settlement of the claim for the 
accidental damage  to the bath.
Mrs I didnt accept the investigators  findings.  She said the bath was still available for the 
loss adjuster to inspect  when he visited and that watermarks  were still visible  on her kitchen 
ceiling. She furthermore said that the loss adjuster had agreed that there  was a problem with 
the joists.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
When Mrs I rang Fairmead, its adviser acknowledged  that Mrs I might need to remove the 
bath to fix the leak though  he stopped  short of promising that cover would definitely be 
provided.
After visiting the property, the loss adjuster said that Mrs I told him shed already repaired 
the damage to the kitchen ceiling. Mrs I says that she hadnt carried  out this repair.  While  I 
cant explain  the loss adjusters misunderstanding, his comment suggests that he could see 
no damage to that area. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I consider it reasonable 
for Fairmead  to conclude  there was nothing that needed repair  in the kitchen.
The loss adjuster also said that although  Mrs I claimed the bathroom joists needed 
replacing, these were out of sight beneath the floorboards and there was no evidence  of 
water damage to the floorboards. On this basis, the loss adjuster couldnt  agree that there  
was evidence of water damage  to the joists.  Mrs I has claimed the loss adjuster said 
something different  at the time of his visit. Again, I cant explain why the two parties have a 
different recollection  of what was said. I acknowledge that the joists  could potentially have 
been damaged  by the original escape of water claimed for in December 2018, depending  on 
how long that had been ongoing before it was discovered. However,  in the absence of any 
evidence to show the joists are indeed water-damaged, I consider it was reasonable for 
Fairmead to say that these didnt need repair.
The only damage  that the loss adjuster identified was that caused by the removal  of the 
bath. Fairmead has since said it accepts that the bath may have  been  accidentally damaged 
by the home  emergency insurers plumber. It has offered £2,000 to cover the cost of 
replacement of the bath. This includes the cost of fitting and the replacement  of tilework  
around the bath.  I consider this is fair.
As I consider that Fairmead  has made  a fair offer in settlement  of the accidental damage to 
the bath, and that there is no evidence of damage  to the property  caused  by an escape of 
water, I consider  that Fairmead has fulfilled its liability under the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN44643153Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4464315