K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs O bought  the policy in August 2008  at the same time as taking out a mortgage. 
They applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs O for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £873.34 a month towards Mr and 
Mrs Os mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £51.86  a 
month. 
At the time,  Mrs O was employed  as a veterinary nurse. She has told us she was entitled to 
no more than statutory  sick pay and redundancy pay and had no other formal means of 
repaying the mortgage should she be unable to work.  Mrs O has said she had medical  
conditions at the time of the sale. 
Mr O was employed in IT support. He has told us he was entitled to enhanced redundancy 
pay but hasnt  said how much hed have got. He didnt have any other  formal  means  of 
repaying the mortgage should he be unable to work. Mr O has said he also had medical 
conditions at the time of the sale. 
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account started in 2008. 
Mr and Mrs Os representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Os representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs O 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Os representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr and Mrs O about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs O 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN49364522The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs O received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had the 
opportunity to provide their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Mr and Mrs O disagreed  
with the adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Os. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2008 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
Ref: DRN49364523In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Halifax  was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs O with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN49364524-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs O sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs O, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs O 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs O 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Os complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs O know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
While theres nothing  to conclusively show Mr and Mrs O agreed  to the PPI, from whats 
known of Halifaxs sales processes back then, I dont think  its likely that it would have added 
this cover without getting their agreement to take it. Thats also supported  by Halifaxs  
computer records of the sale which show theyd answered certain questions in relation to the 
PPI. 
The paperwork Halifax  sent Mr and Mrs O  albeit shortly  after the sale  also thanked them  
for choosing  to take PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs O knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Both Halifax and Mr and Mrs O agree  that advice was provided  during this sale.  
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr and Mrs O with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Halifax took some steps to establish  whether  the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs O. The adviser had information  about some of Mr and Mrs Os financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  a demands and needs 
statement was completed to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs O had a need  for the 
policy  by asking  questions about their wider circumstances such  as any health issues  and 
existing means  I cant see it did enough  to ensure the PPI was suitable.
 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs O given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN49364525While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs O, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs O met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs O had a need  for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Os ability  to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if they 
were not working  for an extended  period of time  even allowing for the redundancy 
benefits they say Mr O would have been entitled  to. And theres no indication either 
of them  would have  received significant sick pay.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs O. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs O. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Os employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, 
Mr and Mrs O have told us about their medical conditions  but some  were 
experienced long before the sale and didnt recur. And I cant  see that any of them  
led to significant  time off work. So it appears  the PPI was still suitable.  
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
job condition and the fact the policy would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 
months for each  claim), the policy still provided  valuable cover given the fact the 
policy protected the mortgage repayments relating  to their home and the potential  
consequences should Mr and Mrs O be unable to make the repayments on loans 
secured against  their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs O sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs O were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
they were unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs O 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs O agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs O Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs O all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ref: DRN49364526Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Os representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Os. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Os representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs O about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Os representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs O have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs O? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs O suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs O. So I have gone on to consider  whether  it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr and Mrs O suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs O would have still taken  out the policy,  had Halifax  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs O, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs O have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs O would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs O say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
Ref: DRN49364527return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs O had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax  advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Os circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs O knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Halifax told them the exact premium  at the point 
Mr and Mrs O applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely  Mr and Mrs O would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Halifax at the time,  or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs O would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr and Mrs O would get back 
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Os 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs O thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and/or symptoms that 
Mr and Mrs O knew  about or ought  to have known  about  at the start date of the 
policy or had seen or arranged to see a doctor for in the 12 months before the start 
date. The exclusion didnt apply  where they were free of symptoms and hadnt 
consulted a doctor or received treatment for a condition  for 24 months before 
claiming; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs O werent  permanent  employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs and Mrs O be 
unable to do their job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and/or exclusions above might  well have 
caused Mr and Mrs O pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the 
policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
Ref: DRN49364528dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs O from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Os circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr and Mrs O were eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  could  have proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr and Mrs O say 
they had medical  conditions  both when the PPI was taken out and sometime before the 
policy was taken out and the policy wouldnt have provided cover had they needed time off 
work because of these  conditions,  I dont think better information  about this exclusion would 
have put them off agreeing to it. 
I say this because  some of the conditions Mr and Mrs O suffered were many  years before 
the PPI was sold. Theres no indication the conditions  continued  to cause them  problems or 
led to any significant  time off work.  While some of the conditions they mentioned did develop  
nearer the sale,  none of those conditions seem to have led to any significant time off work 
either.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  Mr and Mrs O would have been  caught by any 
of the other significant exclusions.  So I still think they had some good  reasons to take the 
policy out. 
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and 
Mrs O might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely  they would have expected to be 
able to make  a disability  claim without  having to provide  some  evidence to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs O from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs O, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs O had known they could only claim for disability if they were unable  to do both 
their job and any similar job which in the insurers  view they might reasonably become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into their thinking about what  they would have  done.  And I 
accept it may have given  them pause  for thought  although its possible they may not have 
been overly concerned given that if either of them was unable (through disability) to carry on 
their own occupation  the chances that they would be able to take up a similar occupation 
would also, in all probability, be limited.
Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs O that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but they had limited other means to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs O would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs O be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Mr Os redundancy money for other 
use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs O would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for 
Ref: DRN49364529them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if either  of them  was made  
redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not Mr and Mrs O would  have taken out the policy in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Os representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs O would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Os 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs O found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs O believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs O in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr and Mrs O compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs O think Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs O, in 
Ref: DRN493645210the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2008 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Os representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs O and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs O in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2021.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4936452