K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains about errors  and misinformation  provided by Clydesdale Financial  Services 
Limited, trading  as Barclays  Partner  Finance (Barclays), regarding his account, which  led 
him to understand the balance, had been paid in full. He asks for the remaining balance  to 
be written off and the account closed.
background 
Mr M is represented  by his mum, Mrs M. For ease Ive referred  to Mr M throughout my 
decision.
In June 2015, Mr M took out a conditional  sale agreement  with Barclays  to acquire a vehicle. 
He voluntarily surrendered the vehicle in September 2017;  this left an outstanding balance of 
£4,379.33.
Mr M entered in a payment plan for £200 per month and paid three payments. He then 
received a statement, which said the outstanding balance had been written off and the 
balance on the account was zero.
Mr M says he contacted Barclays to query this and was advised the balance  had been  
written off and was now zero and his direct debit had been cancelled.  He received no further 
communication until August 2018  when  a statement was sent out with a revised amount of 
£3,816.14.
In October  2018, Mr M was sent a letter  explaining  the outstanding balance  had been sold to 
a third-party company. Mr M then started to receive texts  and phone  calls from the third 
party.
Mr M complained to Barclays. In its final response,  dated  12 December 2018, it says Mr M 
hasnt been sent any letters confirming the account has been  paid in full. It says the annual  
statement showed a policy write off and a zero balance as the account was being sold to a 
third-party company.  It acknowledged that there had been  a significant delay in sending a 
number of accounts to third parties and it set up a review to look at any service lapses. 
Barclays were  unable  to confirm if Mr Ms account  had been part of this review but had 
applied a credit  of £563.19  to reflect any interest,  fees or charges that may have been 
applicable during this time. It said it had no record of Mr M discussing this matter on the 
telephone and didnt accept a Barclays representative  would have said the balance had 
been written off, rather than sold to a third party as all its staff are aware  of the relative 
markers that would  identify an arrears account awaiting a transfer to a third party.
Mr M remained unhappy and asked this service to look into matters  for him.
An investigator looked at all the information  from Mr M and Barclays. She concluded the 
policy write off and nil balance was part of Barclays policy when transferring an account  to a 
third party, but she agreed  this had been badly communicated  to Mr M and had caused him 
a great  deal of confusion  and frustration, but she also concluded that Mr M was liable for the 
outstanding balance. She accepted Barclays had credited  Mr Ms account with £563.19 for 
any fees, interest or charges between December 2017 and October  2018  but asked 
Barclays to pay an additional  £100 for the trouble and upset this matter had caused
Ref: DRN42006222Barclays agreed with the investigators findings,  but Mr M didnt.  He has experienced 
financial difficulties and poor health. He feels if this matter had been  communicated  properly, 
he would  have been able to deal with it. Instead,  he insists he was told on the telephone the 
balance had been written off. He feels it very unfair that ten months later he was informed 
this was not the case. He feels strongly  the balance  should be written  off and the account 
closed.
Mr M asked  for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information afresh 
from both parties. Having done  so, Im in agreement  with the investigator. I appreciate this 
will be a disappointment  for Mr M, Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
Firstly, Id like to thank Mr M for his patience. I appreciate he has been waiting sometime  for 
a decision. Theres  no dispute here that Barclays could have handled  things better. But I 
think its important to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to regulate 
or punish businesses for their conduct   that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Instead, this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer and a 
business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to 
put things right by placing  the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position  they would 
have been if the problem  hadnt occurred.
Ive considered the terms and conditions of the account regarding  the transfer  to a third 
party. They say:
We may transfer our rights under this agreement to someone else. We may transfer  our 
rights and responsibilities  under this agreement  to Barclays  Bank  Plc. This means  another  
company would take over managing your credit and collecting the repayments, but it 
wouldnt mean the terms of your agreement would change. We will tell you if we do this. You 
do not have the right to transfer  this agreement.
So, Im satisfied Barclays have the right to transfer Mr Ms account  to a third party  and I can 
see a letter was sent in October  2018 to that effect.
There was also clearly  a delay, around 10 months,  in the account being transferred and so I 
can understand why this would be confusing to Mr M. As our investigator  has already said, 
Barclays account sales are done in bulk and after the account is moved to its back-office 
system, it can take many months or years before a package of accounts are bundled up for 
a sale to a particular buyer. This is a standard  practice and not unusual  before the terms 
are agreed for a sale of multiple  accounts is dependent  on several commercial factors.
Ive looked at the statements sent to Mr M showing the total balance as £0.00. Again, I can 
completely understand the confusion. The annual statement  sent from 31 January 2017 to 
31 January 2018,  shows  three £200  payments made towards the account and a write off 
Ref: DRN42006223debt sale amount of £4,379.33 It confirms a closing balance as £0.00.  In another statement, 
it shows a period from 31 January 2018 until 31 June 2018 and advises of two adjustments 
of £563.19 and £3,816.14. It then confirms a closing  balance of £0.00.  
Im persuaded Barclays shouldve explained  what this meant to Mr M. It could have done this 
is a covering letter. In failing  to do so, the contact from third party representative must have 
been both confusing and worrying, given the delay between one and the other.
I appreciate Mr M says he spoke with a representative of Barclays  on the telephone  and they 
confirmed the account had been written off, but Barclays disputes this. It says the account 
would be clearly marked and any representative  would have been  able to see it was being 
passed to a third party. It says if a mistake were  made, whilst regrettable, this wouldnt affect 
Mr Ms liability for the debt.
From what  Ive seen Mr M was aware he had an outstanding liability after returning  the 
vehicle and he was also aware he had only made three payments towards it. Im persuaded 
there is enough information to suggest  Mr M wouldve been reasonably aware  there was an 
outstanding debt to be paid and that hes liable to pay the amount  in full. 
I appreciate Mr M says he was told differently in a telephone call between himself  and 
Barclays. Unfortunately, Barclays have been unable  to provide any recordings and so I 
havent been able to listen to a telephone recording of the call. Where the information is 
unclear or in dispute, as it is here, Im required to reach a decision based  on a balance  of 
probabilities. That is to say, what I think is more likely  to have happened. Whilst, I dont 
doubt that Mr M thought his account  had been written off, Im unable  to see anything in the 
contact history that suggests this had been  discussed with Mr M. In the absence of any 
evidence to the contrary, Im not able to direct Barclay to write off this debt.
Barclays could have  handled things better. It is clear  from the second statement that an 
amount of £563.19  has been applied in acknowledgement  of any fees and charges incurred 
because of the delay. If it had been  clearer around  the £0.00 total, balance and explained 
the account was going  to be sold at an earlier date it wouldve avoided  a lot of confusion and 
worry and I agree Mr M should  be compensated for this and so Im going to ask Barclays  
pay an additional £100 in recognition of this.
Ref: DRN42006224my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I direct Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  to:
Pay £100 to Mr M for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4200622