K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  to him alongside a store card. 
I know the card Mr W took out was for a well known retailer. I can also see that hes had 
some correspondence  from a high street bank in response to his complaint. FICL is the 
insurer and has accepted responsibility for this complaint.  So to keep things simple, Ill refer 
to FICL for the rest of this decision. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld.  Through his representatives, 
Mr W disagreed  with that  view. So the matter has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr W, but I havent upheld his complaint. Ive set out the reasons for 
my decision  below. 
Mr W applied  for this card in a store. I cant know what  was said to Mr W when the policy 
was sold to him. So to help me decide  whats likely  to have happened,  Ive looked at what Mr 
W told us about it. And Ive looked at the paperwork thats available  from the time. 
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Mr W would have known the PPI was optional 
and he didnt have  to take it out if he didnt want it. Mr W said that he was pressured  into 
buying PPI. But he hasnt told us specifically what FICL did to make him feel that way. And I 
can see that at the time, Mr W refused other financial products that were offered on the 
same application  form as the PPI. So if he knew he could  refuse  those products, I think hed 
have known he could  refuse PPI. 
FICL had to give Mr W enough information about  the cover  so he could decide  for himself 
whether it was a good fit for his needs. That information had to be fair, clear and not 
misleading.
I cant see that the application  form makes  clear that Mr W would have to pay interest  on his 
premiums if he didnt  repay the balance in full every  month. And I dont think  its clear  that Mr 
W would have to keep  paying those premiums  in the event of a successful claim. .
So the question  for me now is whether Mr W would have acted differently if FICL had told 
him everything it should have done about the cover. To help me decide what  hes likely to 
have done, Ive looked at the terms and conditions  of the policy.  And Ive also thought 
carefully about what Mr W told us about his personal  circumstances. 
I can see that if hed had to make  a claim on the policy,  15% of Mr Ws store  card balance  
would have been cleared  every month up to a maximum of 12 months. Mr W told us that he 
Ref: DRN43439152had at least six months full pay. I think its likely the policy  would have paid out for longer 
than Mr Ws full sick pay. 
Mr W also said that his family members could have  helped him out if hed run into financial 
trouble. And I dont  doubt that it would have been  the intention  of those family members  to 
help if Mr W did get into difficulty.  But circumstances can change and theres no guarantee 
that help would have been  available as and when Mr W needed  it. 
I understand that Mr W was in good health when he bought this cover.  So I dont think  hed 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent  
seen anything unusual  about his employment  circumstances that would have stopped him 
from making a successful claim if he needed to. 
With all of this in mind, I think PPI could have  been  helpful for Mr W if he couldnt work. And 
although I appreciate he doesnt now remember, I think  Mr W probably chose to buy this 
policy at the time  so it looks as though he wanted this type of cover. It follows  that I dont 
think more or better information about  the PPI would have put Mr W off buying  it. 
As I said above, Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, but I havent upheld  this complaint. I dont 
need to ask FICL to take any further  action. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Financial Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4343915