K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that MYJAR Limited  lent to her in an irresponsible manner. She also 
complains that MYJAR has failed  to treat her appropriately when she advised the lender she 
was finding it difficult to repay her last loan.
background
Miss S was given six loans by MYJAR  between June 2017 and July 2018. The first four 
loans were repayable  in three monthly  instalments, loan 5 was repayable in six instalments 
and the final loan was repayable over twelve months. Miss S has faced some problems 
repaying her final loan and a balance remained outstanding when she made her complaint. 
A summary  of Miss Ss borrowing from MYJAR is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 30/06/2017 28/07/2017 £    200
2 13/08/2017 28/08/2017 £    400
3 10/10/2017 11/11/2017 £    400
4 15/03/2018 28/03/2018 £    200
5 28/03/2018 12/04/2018 £    800
6 17/07/2018 - £ 1,850
Miss Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think MYJAR  
had been wrong  to give the first five loans to Miss S. But he didnt think  the final loan should 
have been agreed. So he asked MYJAR  to pay Miss S some compensation.
MYJAR didnt agree  with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Miss S accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss S could repay  the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN46778772But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Miss S could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint.
MYJAR did some checks before it lent to Miss S. It asked her for details of her income, and 
her normal  expenditure.  And it checked her credit file before agreeing  the loans. Ive seen a 
summary of those credit checks  and I dont think they showed  anything that should have 
caused additional concerns to the lender.
I think that the checks MYJAR  did before  agreeing  the first four loans were proportionate. 
The amounts that Miss S needed to repay were small compared  with the disposable income  
shed declared.  Given  these repayment amounts, what  was apparent  about  Miss Ss 
circumstances at the time, and her borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for MYJAR to ask her for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable  before agreeing  the first four loans.
Ref: DRN46778773But I think, by the time Miss S asked for loan 5, that MYJAR should have realised that it 
couldnt safely rely on the information she was providing about her finances. This was now 
Miss Ss fifth loan and shed been  borrowing, with only a short  break between loans 3 and 4, 
for a considerable period  of time. The amount  Miss S was asking to borrow, and the 
repayment term of the loan, had also increased significantly. So I think MYJAR should  have 
taken steps at that time to independently verify Miss Ss true financial position. 
We asked Miss S for copies of her credit file and bank statements from the time to see what  
better checks would  have shown MYJAR. Miss S gave us a copy  of her credit file but said 
she was unable to provide  her bank statements. Based on the information  weve  received 
I havent seen  anything that would  make me think Miss Ss finances were  under significant 
pressure. So Im not able to say that better checks should have led to MYJAR deciding not 
to give loan 5 to Miss S.
But looking  at the overall pattern of MYJARs lending history  with Miss S I think by loan 6 the 
lender should  reasonably have seen that further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise  
harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it shouldnt provide that loan. 
This was now the sixth loan that Miss S had taken from MYJAR over a period  of just over a 
year. Miss S had repaid each of her previous loans far earlier than had been planned but 
then borrowed again shortly afterwards. I think that pattern of frequent borrowing  and 
repaying early should have indicated to MYJAR  that Miss S was most likely having 
significant problems  managing her money. 
When Miss S asked for loan 6, it was more than twice as big as any loan shed taken in the 
past from MYJAR. I accept that this loan was repayable over a 12 month period. So the 
amounts that Miss S needed to repay each time were smaller than if shed taken a loan over 
a shorter duration.  But Miss S was now committing to making  those repayments  over a far 
longer period.
I think that Miss S lost out because  MYJAR agree to give her loan 6 because  the loan had 
the effect of unfairly prolonging her indebtedness by allowing her to take expensive credit  
intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time. The sheer  number of loans  
Miss S had taken to date was likely to have had negative implications on her ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these  high-cost loans.
So I dont  think MYJAR should  have given  loan 6 to Miss S and needs to pay her some 
compensation.
Miss S has also complained about the way she was treated by MYJAR  when  she faced 
problems repaying  her final loan. Ive looked  at MYJARs records  of its communication with 
Miss S and these generally show that the lender did treat her positively and sympathetically. 
MYJAR needed to show forbearance towards  Miss Ss situation,  but that doesnt mean that it 
would be unreasonable for the lender to seek repayment of the money that it had lent. 
I think that setting up a repayment  plan, at a lower  monthly amount than had previously been 
agreed, was a reasonable way forwards whilst awaiting further information from Miss S 
about her finances.  I have  seen that Miss S says she didnt receive that request for 
additional information, but it does  appear to have  been sent by MYJAR to the email address 
it holds on file for her. On balance  I dont  think that MYJAR failed  to treat Miss S in a 
reasonable manner when  she was finding it difficult to repay her loan.
Ref: DRN46778774putting things right
I dont think MYJAR should have  agreed to give the final loan (loan 6) to Miss S. So in 
relation to that loan MYJAR  should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Miss S on the loan. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The number of loans  taken before loan 6 means  any information recorded  about that 
loan is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 should be removed from Miss Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Miss S a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
It appears that Miss S still owes MYJAR  some of the principal balance she borrowed on her 
final loan. MYJAR may deduct this from the compensation that is due to her. To be clear,  
that outstanding balance  should be recalculated to remove  any interest and charges, but 
taking account  of any repayments  Miss S has made on that loan as though they were  
applied against  the principal sum borrowed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Miss Ss complaint and direct  MYJAR Limited to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4677877