K822xcomplaint
Mr G, Mr H1 and Mr H2 complain, on behalf of the Goldieslie Lodge  Benevolent Fund,  that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC has failed to deliver the return  on its investment portfolio as set out in 
the original trust document. They  also complain  that Barclays  continued to send letters and 
statements to former trustees, despite  being told who they should write to on many 
occasions, and hasnt made  it possible  for new trustees to be approved. 
background 
As a result  the trustees feel they havent been  kept as informed as they shouldve  been 
about the Funds investment portfolio despite the level of charges being taken. They  want  
Barclays to make a payment into the portfolio  to reflect  the return it shouldve been getting  
and to waive  any fees for transferring the investments to another  business.
Barclays said it didnt have the original documentation spelling out the terms of the 
agreement. But it did not believe it would have guaranteed a minimum return.
An adjudicator at this service  noted  that the trustees  had entered  into an arrangement with 
Barclays to manage  its investment portfolio. As such, its obligation was to manage the 
portfolio in accordance with that agreement but wasnt bound by the terms of the trust itself.
Although he hadnt seen  the specific agreement between the parties he said these invariably 
gave Barclays broad discretion to manage the portfolio via a range of investments designed 
to match  the trustees  objectives and attitude to risk. He thought it was highly unlikely that 
Barclays wouldve given any guarantee that it could deliver a specific  return. So it was for the 
trustees to decide  whether the service offered by Barclays would allow them  to fulfil their 
obligations to the trust,  including  securing a guaranteed annual  return  on the capital.
The adjudicator said that if the trustees wanted  a more bespoke  or individual portfolio 
management service, the charges would be considerably higher; even then this could not 
promise a guaranteed level of return.
He also said that Barclays had, in recent years, increasing regulatory  requirements to meet 
identification and money laundering rules, and this necessitated asking trustees  and would-be 
trustees for additional  identification and other information.  If it did not receive  these it could 
stop the management of the portfolio.
He felt that if the trustees werent happy  with the arrangements they have with Barclays,  they 
could move their portfolio  elsewhere. He didnt think it would be fair to require Barclays  to 
waive any fees which might apply in those circumstances.
He recognised that the trustees had changed over the years and felt they had made every 
effort to let Barclays know about  these changes. The evidence  indicated it had not acted on 
the information provided and this had caused  some concern and upset as new people were 
reliant on former trustees  to pass on information. He said Barclays had now agreed to pay 
£500 for the trouble and upset this had caused and he felt this was fair and reasonable.
The trustees did not agree, and asked for £2,500. They also said Barclays  had failed to 
inform them,  particularly  Mr G, that a particular new document  was required to access  the 
account. The adjudicator said Barclays had acknowledged it should have made this clear 
when Mr G was appointed  as a trustee  but that the proposed  £500 reflected this issue.
Ref: DRN42881392my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the adjudicator 
and for the same  reasons.
In my experience, Barclays  would  not have been able to guarantee that an investment 
portfolio would deliver a particular return.  In my view, this is not possible and I cant  see why 
any provider would make  a promise it could not keep. It could have guaranteed to pay a 
specific annual income  though this is not the issue at dispute  here  but if investment  
returns were poor this would have  been at the cost of reducing the capital sum.
I recognise that the trustees believe they did not receive sufficient information to assess  the 
performance of the funds  portfolio and were therefore denied the opportunity to seek  to 
improve returns. But the trust was set up on the basis  that investment  decisions would  be 
made by Barclays and Ive seen  no persuasive  evidence to indicate  the trustees would have 
changed this arrangement  if all of them had received all the documentation at the right time.
From what  Ive read some of them were kept abreast of the performance of the portfolio and 
the reduced returns being accrued  so I think they could have taken steps to remove Barclays  
if they wished  to do so.
Barclays accepted  it didnt deal promptly or efficiently  with change of trustee  requests but did 
not agree  with all the trustees allegations.  I share  the adjudicators view that it should  have 
done far better but I think £500 is a fair and reasonable sum in lieu of these failings. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £500 to the trustees of the 
Goldieslie Lodge Benevolent Fund.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the trustees of the 
Goldieslie Lodge Benevolent Fund to accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4288139