K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr G took one loan from Satsuma. He borrowed £1000 in August 2018  and agreed  to repay 
the loan over the following  twelve months. There is a balance on the loan that remains 
outstanding.
Mr Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He sent a letter  to both 
parties where he didnt  uphold Mr Gs complaint. He concluded that Satsuma didnt need to 
carry out any further checks at the time it granted  the loan to Mr G and didnt do anything  
wrong. Mr G didnt  agree with our adjudicator and said his credit  file would have shown that 
the loan was unaffordable  and was at odds with the information he had given about his 
finances.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
G could repay the loan in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN47187772Satsuma did a number  of checks before it lent to Mr G. It asked him for details of his income 
and his normal expenditure. It gathered  data from credit  reference agencies. And it then 
used this information to calculate how much disposable income Mr G had left over each 
month. Satsuma also used the credit reference  agency checks  to gather  some more 
information about Mr Gs financial situation  at that time.
Mr G has told our service  that he hadnt been honest about  the figures he gave  when 
applying for the loan and that Satsuma  should have picked up on this. But this was the first 
time Mr G had approached Satsuma  for a loan from what I have seen, I dont think  there  was 
any reason for Satsuma  to doubt  the information  Mr G had provided about his income  and 
expenditure.
In addition, I have  seen results from the credit checks that Satsuma carried out at the time.  
These checks failed to show any information that might have suggested  Mr G was having  
problems managing his money.  The checks didnt show any concerning  information such  as 
a reliance on other short term loans, or delinquent or defaulted accounts.
In saying that, I think it is important to note that, generally, the information  a consumer might 
see, when they request a copy  of their credit file, might be very different to that seen by a 
lender. A lender  might  only see a small portion of the credit  file, or some data might  be 
missing or anonymised,  or the data might not be up to date. So, this may explain why Mr G 
says that he was having problems managing  his money at the time the loan was granted  but 
this was not reflected in the credit search  information collated by Satsuma  at the time.
The repayments that Mr G had agreed  to make on his loan were relatively modest  compared  
to the income  that hed declared  to Satsuma. And based on what he had told Satsuma and 
the credit  checks it carried out, the repayments appeared to be easily  affordable. So given 
these repayment  amounts,  what was apparent about Mr Gs circumstances  at the time, and 
his lack of borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate  for 
Satsuma to ask him for the amount  of information  that would be needed  to show  the lending 
was unsustainable.  So I dont think Satsuma was wrong to give this loan to Mr G.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN47187773
Ref: DRN4718777