K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about the poor service  she received from TICORP Limited in its dealings  
with her about her travel insurance policy. 
background
Mrs S arranged her annual multi-trip travel insurance  policy through  TICORP. Part-way  
through the insurance policy year she called  TICORP to tell it about  some foot pain shed 
been experiencing. 
In brief summary TICORP  told Mrs S that E - the insurer which provided the cover under 
the travel  policy  - wouldnt continue to insure her. TICORP  accepted some poor service on 
its part and paid her a pro-rata  refund  of the policy premium, which  it rounded up to £125 in 
total. It also waived  the usual  cancellation  charge. Mrs S didnt think  TICORP had 
compensated her properly  so she came to us.
Our adjudicator ultimately said that TICORPs compensation  was fair for its poor service. 
She arranged for a separate complaint to be set up against E, the insurer, which  had been 
responsible for the decision to withdraw  cover. Mrs S didnt agree the compensation was fair 
for TICORPs shoddy  service so the complaints come to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision  is confined  to this complaint about  TICORP. I make  no findings against  the 
decision of the insurer E to withdraw the cover, as that is a separate  complaint.
Ive read all of Mrs Ss comments about the poor service she had from TICORP. But having 
done so I think  the payment it made to her was fair. In saying this Im not making any finding  
on the decision to withdraw the cover part-way through the policy year.  That decision to 
withdraw the cover was made by E, and TICORP was effectively just passing on that 
information to Mrs S. 
TICORP kept Mrs S holding on the phone and didnt give her a decision about cover before 
she went on a trip abroad. TICORP did apologise to her for this at the time. Unfortunately  it 
had to wait for a decision about cover from E. While it did call her about the cover this was 
after shed left on her trip. The policy did cover her for this trip but I can appreciate shed 
have been concerned about the cover.  
Having thought about TICORPs responsibility for the service Mrs S received I think it did 
pay her fair compensation of £125.  This amount included the pro-rata refund of the policy  
premium of around £35 and TICORP also waived the cancellation fee of £30. I think 
TICORPs response to the complaint was fair so I dont require it to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN43967682my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that I consider  
TICORP Limited has already paid Mrs S a fair amount of compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4396768