K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Red Sands Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited declined his claim for
damage to his windows under his insurance  backed warranty.
background
Mr R had work done on his house in 2009. This included the installation  of new windows by
a company I will refer to as Company A. Company A provided a 10 year insurance  backed
warranty with Red Sands to cover  the work if they went out of business.
In 2018 Mr R discovered that some of the windows had become  rotten  and needed to be
replaced. He tried to contact Company  A but found  that they were no longer trading. He
made a claim under  the insurance backed  warranty.
Red Sands  declined the claim. It said that the policy only provided cover  if a company
ceased trading  under  specific circumstances and as Company A was dissolved, it doesnt
fall into these categories and therefore wouldnt be covered under the policy.
Mr R didnt think this was fair as he said he had assumed the warranty  would provide cover
in a position where Company A were no longer trading, so wouldnt expect that a situation
like this would be excluded. He brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt  uphold  the complaint. She said she felt
Red Sands  had correctly  applied  the policy term, so couldnt ask them  to do anything else.
Mr R disagreed and asked for his complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Red Sands  declined Mr Rs claim because Company A didnt meet its policys definition  for
ceasing to trade. The definition  in the policy says:
ceasing to trade due to the appointment of a receiver,  administrator or liquidator due to
compulsory liquidation or creditors'  voluntary liquidation;  or where  the member company  is
operated as a sole trader or a partnership means the winding up of the member  company
due to either bankruptcy or the death  of all the principal(s) and where all the principal(s)
estates have been declared  insolvent.
I can see that Company  A was dissolved by voluntary strike-off. This means that it didnt go
through a formal process. As the principal  didnt die, nor were  they declared  insolvent, this
means Mr Rs claim would be excluded from cover under these  terms. However, I need to
decide whether  Red Sands has applied this term fairly in these circumstances.
The purpose of an insurance backed warranty is to provide protection to make good
defective workmanship or materials if the company responsible  ceases trading. Its provided
by contractors to offer peace of mind  to their customers for the work they are doing.  It would
be a reasonable  understanding  of the policy, that the phrase  ceased trading would apply to
any circumstance where the company were no longer trading. As this is the usual definition
of this phrase.  Mr R had this understanding when he agreed to the work under the warranty.
Ref: DRN41724312Looking at the policy term Red Sands have relied on, it seems very restrictive.  The definition
provided for the term ceased trading reduces the scope of the policy to a very narrow remit.
Because of this is it wouldnt match  a reasonable expectation of the cover provided  by this
kind of warranty. I therefore  think its a significant feature of the policy  that should be made
clear in the policy documents and to the customer before it was sold.
Mr R has explained that when he agreed  to Company A completing the work, he was told
they were covered by a warranty. He was given limited information  at the time but was told
that the warranty would cover  him if the company went  out of business. As I have said,  I
think this is reasonable  given  the type of policy this is.
Mr R has also said that the policy key facts were  sent to him in the post after the work was
completed. So he hadnt had the opportunity to read the details until after that. The certificate
of insurance that Mr R was given  at the time he agreed to the work  gives a brief outline of
what is covered. It states that cover is provided  where the original installing company
ceases to trade. It doesnt provide  any further  definition of this phrase. I think Mr R would
have interpreted this meant that he was protected if the company went out of business.
However, even if he had been  given  the policy documents at the time the work commenced,
Im not sure Mr R would have understood the restriction it presents. The definition  itself is
very technical. And I dont think its clear on initially reading it, exactly  how much  this restricts
what would  be covered under the policy. I dont  think most people would immediately
understand the difference between companies going into liquidation  and those that are
voluntarily dissolved.  So from reading the definition they may not understand they wouldnt
be covered in all cases  where a company  goes  out of business.
So although  Red Sands  has applied the term correctly, I dont think its application is fair and
reasonable in this case. The term restricts the policy  to the extent that it wouldnt fulfil a
reasonable expectation of the warranty. And the term is worded in a way that wouldnt make
that clear to the average person. Due to this, I think its important the term is made explicitly
clear in the policy documents and the restriction it presents were made clear before it was
sold. As explained above I cant  say that this was the case  here so it wouldnt be fair to rely
on the term in this case.
I therefore intend to direct  Red Sands  to assess the claim without a reference to any
limitation in the policys  definition  of ceased  trading. As Mr R has already paid to replace the
windows, any successful  claim  would  need  to be paid as a cash settlement.  As Mr R has
been without the money  Red Sands should  also add 8% to any cash settlement to
compensate Mr R for not having the money. This should be calculated from the date Mr R
paid for the repair, until the date Red Sands make the payment.
Further, I note that in Red Sands final response to Mr Rs complaint it also says that as he
doesnt have a copy of the Contractors Written Guarantee it wouldnt know  exactly what
would be covered. So it wouldnt be able to progress a claim even if it had satisfied the
definition of ceased trading. Ive considered this and I dont think  this is fair.
Red Sands  has a copy of the policy document and key facts  which  usually mirror the
guarantee. So Im satisfied this is enough  to know what is covered. Further,  as Red Sands
has effectively agreed  to cover the installers guarantee by providing cover  in the first place,
its reasonable to expect  it to know what its agreed to cover. I dont think its fair that the
onus is on the consumer to tell it. I therefore intend  to direct Red Sands  to provide cover in
line with the policy document  and warranty certificate.
Ref: DRN41724313response to my provisional  decision
Mr R accepted my provisional  decision.
Red Sands  responded to provide more information  about the sales  process of its insurance 
backed warranty. It said the product is sold to the installation business on behalf of the 
policyholder. And the trigger for the purchase  is the activated by the installation company. It 
explained that the policy documents are therefore only sent to the policyholder once the job 
is competed. It also said that it makes the policy  wording as clear as possible for the 
consumer. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate Red Sands  clarifying  its sales process, having considered this 
information it doesnt change my position.
The reason  I didnt think Red Sands had acted fairly is because the term it relied  on in the 
policy is so restrictive, it significantly  changes  the cover provided by the policy to the point 
that it would  no longer  meet a reasonable understanding of the product. Because of this, it 
should be made clear  to the consumer and it wasnt. The fact the policy  is sold to the 
installation business  doesnt change this. The business would  inform  the consumer  that they 
were covered by a warranty.  The consumer would likely make  the fair assumption  that this 
covers them  for the company going out of business.  This is due to the unusual and 
restrictive term that isnt properly highlighted to the consumer.
Further, due to this, the business itself may be unaware of the limitations  of the policy as it 
isnt clear. So I dont  think the term has been applied fairly in these circumstances. Due to 
this, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision as outlined  above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I intend  to uphold Mr Rs complaint. I intend to require Red Sands
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
Assess Mr Rs claim without a reference  to any limitation in the policys definition of
           ceased  trading  and without the Contractors Written Guarantee.
Pay 8% a year simple interest  on any successful claim from the date Mr R paid for 
the windows to be replaced, until the date is the claim  is paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41724314
Ref: DRN4172431