K821x#15complaint
Mrs B is unhappy Advantage Insurance Company Limited didnt cover her claim for a 
replacement windscreen  under  her car insurance  policy.
background
Mrs B contacted Advantage to make a claim after her windscreen  cracked.  Mrs B was 
advised by her local dealership the windscreen should be replaced using the method 
advised by the car manufacturer in a document  theyd produced on windscreen repairs  and 
replacement. Two windscreen replacement companies introduced by Advantage declined  to 
carry out the work because they werent  willing to follow this process.
Advantage told Mrs B to make a full claim under  the section of her policy covering general 
damage to her car. She was told shed have to pay a higher excess and that it would go 
down as a fault  claim and then she could get her windscreen replaced by a garage of her 
choice. Mrs B got a quote from her local dealer to replace  the windscreen. Advantage then 
said they would only cover £95 of the cost of replacement, after deducting  the £85 excess  
for windscreen claims.
Mrs B asked Advantage to find another approved windscreen repairer. But, as she didnt get 
a response, she took the car to her local dealership  to replace the windscreen. It was 
replaced in the first week of February  for £664.56,  which Mrs B paid herself. Mrs B wanted  
Advantage to cover  the cost of the replacement under  the policy, but it advised  it would  only 
pay £95 towards the cost of the windscreen
Mrs B complained to Advantage  at the end of January. As Advantage didnt deal with the 
complaint promptly and didnt provide Mrs B with a written response  to it until the end of 
March, it offered Mrs B £100 in compensation. Advantage also admitted it had wrongly 
advised Mrs B to make a claim under the section covering damage to her car and pay a 
higher excess.
Mrs Bs complaint centred on Advantages refusal to cover the cost of replacing  the 
windscreen on Mrs Bs car using the process that the car manufacturer  said should be used 
in its advisory document. This suggests the safety  of the vehicle  will be compromised if the 
wrong glue or method  are used. Advantages windscreen repairers said the glue they use 
was of the same standard and would not affect  the safety of the vehicle. And the cold 
application method they use doesnt  compromise safety standards.
Based on their terms and conditions of Mrs Bs policy, and their engineers views, Advantage 
decided not to reimburse the full cost of the windscreen replacement, although they did 
remove the fault claim from Mrs Bs records. So she complained to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Bs complaint. He relied on the expert evidence provided 
by Advantages  in-house engineers. Mrs B is unhappy with our investigators  view, so the 
matter has come to me for decision.
Ref: DRN48839182my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Advantage said it would pay £95 towards  the cost of replacing the windscreen on Mrs Bs 
car based on Section 8 of the policy. This says: "Your Insurers  Nominated Repairer may 
use parts  or Accessories  that arent made  or supplied by your Cars manufacturer  but are 
often equivalent  type and quality to those being  replaced". And on the following policy  term: 
When not using Advantages approved glass company. Additional charges or limited cover  
may apply  if you dont use your Insurers Nominated repairer.
Advantage has provided an expert  report,  which says the glue their repairers  would have 
used and the method of application would meet some  and exceed  other  standards  used 
when the car was manufactured. But the manufacturers advisory document is very clear that 
any glue and method other than the one it states  would compromise the safety  of the 
vehicle. As I am not an expert, I cant decide whether Advantages expert report should 
override the manufacturers advice. I have to decide  this case based on what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. I have taken into account  what Mrs B knows and 
believes and how she feels about  how the repair is carried out. And whether  it would  be 
reasonable to allow  Advantage to rely on the terms of the policy  in light of this.
I can see Mrs B mentioned her concerns  about safety and she says Advantage hasnt  taken 
them seriously. I think Advantage  has considered  the evidence Mrs B has presented to it 
and disagrees. But I think Advantage could have done more  to reassure Mrs B. For 
example, it could have  contacted Mrs Bs car manufacturer to ask if the repairers glue would 
meet its standards. If it had, and the manufacturer had confirmed it did, it may then have 
been easier for Mrs B to put her safety fears to one side and accept Advantages method of 
replacement. And I have no doubt Mrs B sets great store by the advice from her car 
manufacturer, because  she went and paid for the repair herself rather than accept what  she 
considered an unsafe  method of repair.
I can also see it would be very difficult for Mrs B to ignore the information provided by the 
manufacturer, as it suggests her safety would be at risk. So I can understand why she went  
and had the windscreen repaired by someone  who could guarantee theyd use the method 
set out in the manufacturers advisory document.
In these circumstances, I dont think allowing Advantage  to rely on the policy terms would 
produce a fair and reasonable  outcome in this case. I say this because if I were  to allow this, 
Id be deciding it was fair for Advantage to expect  Mrs B to drive  around feeling unsafe. This 
doesnt mean she would have been  unsafe. But  because of what the manufacturers 
advisory document said and the fact Advantage didnt  do more to reassure her, she would 
have felt unsafe. And I think  the aim of an insurance  policy  is to cover the cost of a repair  that 
gives the policyholder peace of mind, provided the policyholder  is taking a reasonable 
perspective on things. And I think Mrs Bs perspective is very reasonable in the circumstances.
So I think the fair and reasonable outcome here is for Advantage to reimburse what Mrs B 
paid for her windscreen,  ie £664.56, less her excess of £85. This is a total of £579.56, less 
what it has already paid. Advantage should also pay Mrs B interest of 8% simple  on the 
amount due, because  Mrs B has been without that money. Interest should be paid from the 
date of the invoice to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN48839183Advantage have  offered to pay £100 compensation to Mrs B for the distress and 
inconvenience of not dealing with her complaint properly.  I think this amount is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and in line with what we would normally award.
the response to my provisional  findings
Mrs B did not provide  any further comments. Advantage has made  no comments on 
the decision.
my findings
Although Mrs B and Advantage have not provided any further  comments, I have 
nevertheless re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have seen  nothing  to change  my 
mind and so my provisional  findings stand.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  decision, my final decision is I uphold  Mrs Bs 
complaint.
I direct  Advantage Insurance  Company  Limited  to:
Pay Mrs B £664.56 less her excess  of £85, ie a total of £579.56, less what  it has already 
paid. It should  pay interest on this amount  at 8% simple  per year from the date of the 
invoice to the date of actual payment.*
Pay Mrs B £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must  pay the compensation within  28 days  of the 
date on which we tell it Mrs B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Advantage Insurance  Company Limited to take off tax 
from this interest. Advantage Insurance Company Limited must give Mrs B a certificate 
showing how much  tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4883918