K820x#14complaint
Ms H and Mr M complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading  at the time as Halifax) mis-sold  
them payment protection insurance  (PPI) when  they took out their mortgage in 1998.
background
Ms H and Mr M took out a mortgage in a branch. At the same time they applied  for a PPI 
policy. This policy covered them in equal  shares if they couldnt work because  of an 
accident, sickness or if they lost their jobs. It cost £5.06 and would have paid out the monthly  
benefit of £100 for up to 12 months per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Ms H and Mr M disagreed with 
this view and asked  that their matter  be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms H and Mr Ms complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Ms H and Mr M were  offered a fair choice about  
buying the policy. They say they werent aware  it was optional. Halifax has been  able to 
provide a copy of the application form that was completed at the time. A separate  application 
form for the PPI was filled in with Mrs H and Mr Ms details. The amount of benefit was 
chosen and the monthly  premium was also set out on the form. Ms H and Mr M have both 
signed and dated the application. Neither  the mortgage application  form nor the mortgage 
offer has anything on it about the PPI. So I dont  think its likely Ms H and Mr M would  have 
been led to believe  they had to take it out to secure  their mortgage. I have also seen a copy  
of a letter from Halifax confirming the products chosen. PPI is set out in this letter as one of 
those products and the choices Ms H and Mr M made about  other  types of insurance  are 
also set out in this letter.  Overall,  I think they likely discussed the PPI and chose to take it out 
knowing they could  decline  it if they didnt want it.
I think Halifax advised Ms H and Mr M to take out the PPI. That meant it had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure it was suitable  for them as well as giving them  enough clear  
information so they could  decide for themselves  whether or not they wanted to take out the 
cover.
Looking at the terms and conditions of the policy and taking into account Ms H and Mr Ms 
circumstances, I think  the PPI was suitable for them.
I say that because I can see both Ms H and Mr M were eligible for the cover and as they 
were both working and in good health,  I dont think they would have been affected by any of 
the main limitations  or exclusions in the policy. 
Ms H and Mr M say that they had adequate cover from work  if they were  off sick  up to six 
months full pay followed  by six months  half pay and so they didnt need the policy.  They 
have told us that the Halifax representative  didnt take adequate account  of their cover  from 
Ref: DRN42094582work when  they recommended  the product to them. But this policy would  have covered them 
for up to 12 months per claim  so it would  have potentially lasted longer than their full sick 
pay from work and would have been  paid in addition to it.
This policy covered  their mortgage.  If either Ms H or Mr M couldnt  work their income would 
have reduced.  The consequences of being unable  to repay  their monthly  repayments  were 
serious and I think the PPI would have been useful at what  would have no doubt  been a 
stressful time.
Theres nothing to make me think the policy was unaffordable.
Its possible Halifax didnt give all the information it should have done  to Ms H and Mr M. But 
that isnt enough for me to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide whether or not this 
would have made a difference  to Ms H and Mr Ms decision to buy the policy.  I cant  say it 
would have done. As Ive explained  I think Ms H and Mr M chose the PPI and for much the 
same reasons as Ive set out above  about why I think  the policy was suitable,  I dont  think  
any more information  would have put them off buying the cover.  I still think they would have 
taken it out.
I appreciate Ms H and Mr M will be disappointed with my decision. But I hope  the reasons 
Ive given explain why I dont think Ms H and Mr M lost out because  of anything Halifax did 
wrong and I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 July 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4209458