K820x#14Complaint
Mr S has complained about Nationwide Building Societys response to a claim  he made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background
Some years  ago, Mr S and his wife had a solar panel system fitted to their home.  This 
involved a number of pieces of equipment being installed, including  inverters allowing the 
energy produced by the panels to be converted into a usable  current.  The inverters  came  
with a warranty lasting  a number of years.
After the expiry of this warranty,  Mr S was contacted by a third party  business, G. G 
persuaded Mr S to purchase a power  saver/voltage optimiser and a new warranty  for his 
inverters. The cost of these together was over £3,000.  Mr S and his wife paid for this in May 
2017 with a combination of their joint account, her credit card and Mr Ss Nationwide credit  
card.
Soon after this, Mr S and his wife were informed,  by the original installer  of their solar 
panels, that the optimiser and associated works  should have only cost in the region of £900.  
And Mr S became concerned that G was not answering his calls and may have been in the 
process of winding up as a company. 
Mr Ss wife lodged a claim with her credit card provider under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (s.75), and Mr S did the same with Nationwide.  Mr Ss wifes card provider, 
B said it was satisfied that, as G was apparently unable to honour  the agreement, there 
had been a breach of contract  in relation to the warranty  for the inverters. And it paid Mr Ss 
wife just under £700 to rectify this.
However, Nationwide responded to Mr Ss claim in November  2017, saying that the 
evidence provided  had not persuaded it that there had been breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation. It also said that it understood B had issued a refund under the 
chargeback guarantee process,  but that it was too late for Mr S to take this route.  Mr S 
complained about this response,  but Nationwide did not alter its position.  
Nationwide considered that the evidence about what was sold was largely limited to a single 
page contract of sale. And, as this did not provide any detail on the level of protection  being 
purchased, it was not possible to determine  if there had been a breach of that contract. 
Nationwide said that, as of the date of its response, G was still an active  company. 
Nationwide also said that even if Mr S and his wife had been  overcharged,  this in itself did 
not constitute a misrepresentation  or a breach of contract. Nationwide did offer Mr S £75 in 
recognition of the delay in responding to his claim however. 
Mr S remained unhappy  and referred his complaint to this service.  Our investigator didnt 
recommend his complaint be upheld though. She thought  that it wasnt  likely there had been  
a breach of contract or a misrepresentation in relation to the optimiser.  And she considered 
the refund  provided by B had been  in relation to a breach of contract it had found to have  
occurred when G no longer provided  the additional warranty  that had been  purchased.  The 
investigator also concluded that this refund was likely to be an appropriate  response  to this 
breach of contract.  And so she didnt think Nationwides response to the s.75 claim had been 
inappropriate in itself.  
Ref: DRN49607522Mr S was not satisfied  with this outcome. He provided a letter  from trading standards 
confirming it was investigating G for potential criminal offences relating to the sale of 
equipment. Mr S also felt that Nationwide had caused delays  which meant he was no longer 
able to claim under the chargeback process.  
Our investigator was not persuaded to change her view though.  She said regardless of 
whether Nationwide shouldve done a chargeback, the refund from B was a reasonable 
amount to compensate Mr S and his wife for the warranty no longer  being  valid.  As such 
Mr Ss complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry  to hear of Mr Ss ill health.  He and his wife have my sympathies for this and the 
situation they are in. It seems clear from that they have paid a lot of money  and had limited  
return on this. 
However, whilst  that may be the case, my role here is limited to assessing  Nationwides 
response to Mr Ss claim  under s.75. Under this section, a customer can make certain claims 
against their credit provider over the actions of a third party  supplier  in this case  it allows  
Mr S to claim  against Nationwide for actions of G. But, crucially, such  claims are limited to 
claims for misrepresentation or breach of contract.
Technically, only a court can determine  if there has been a breach of contract  or a 
misrepresentation. However,  where  a claim  under  s.75 is made  to a creditor, we would 
expect the creditor  to consider what outcome a court is likely to come to. And any complaint  
about how a creditor  has dealt with such a claim is one that we can consider. Our role is to 
determine whether  the creditor dealt with the claim fairly and reasonably.  In complaints such 
as this one, this means deciding whether Nationwide dealt with Mr Ss claim appropriately.  
In coming to this decision, I consider there  to be several key issues.  Was there a 
misrepresentation, was there breach of contract, and is there any compensation due to 
Mr S? I will consider each of these  in turn. 
Was there a misrepresentation?
As I have said, only a court can truly determine if there was a misrepresentation. But I can 
consider whether Nationwide  should have anticipated a court  concluding that there was one. 
I should also stress that misrepresentation has a legal meaning. There  are a number of 
types of misrepresentation, but effectively  they require there to have been  a statement of 
fact that led a party to enter a contract  where  they otherwise would not. 
In order to consider  whether there has been a misrepresentation here, it is necessary to 
consider what was represented, i.e. what Mr S and his wife were promised as part of the 
contract they entered.  
Ref: DRN49607523They were  promised an optimiser and for this to be installed. This seems to have happened,  
and there  have been no indications that this part of the contract was not fulfilled as 
promised. Whilst the price paid for this might  not have been  competitive, this wouldnt be a 
misrepresentation. 
It is important  to recognise the difference between being mis-sold a product and there having 
been a misrepresentation. For instance, whilst Mr S has referred to the price paid, I agree 
with Nationwide  that this in itself isnt a misrepresentation.  Nationwide would only be 
responsible under s.75 for a misrepresentation, not for G overcharging Mr S. 
Mr S and his wife were  also promised  a new warranty for their previously installed inverters.  
However, there is very little clarity about  what form this warranty  actually took.  
Mr S has been able to say that he was told he would be given an extra 5 years  warranty, 
but no detail has been provided about  what this would cover  the inverters  for or in what 
circumstances. 
The original  installers  of the warranty  have  said that it would not be possible for a warranty to 
be extended with the manufacturers after the original warranty  had expired, as is the case 
here. However, it is possible for a customer to buy a stand-alone warranty  product, 
effectively an insurance contract. So I dont think there was a bar to a warranty having  been 
provided in some form to Mr S by G. 
Given Mr S was provided with the optimiser, and there is limited persuasive  evidence that he 
was not provided  with a warranty, I am unable  to say Nationwide acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when declining his s.75 claim in relation to misrepresentation. 
Was there a breach  of contract?
As has been mentioned, an optimiser was installed in Mr Ss property. And no suggestion 
has been made that the optimiser is not working properly. As such, I dont consider 
Nationwide acted unfairly or unreasonably  when  declining  Mr Ss claim in relation to this 
aspect either. 
However, given Mr S has said that he was unable to contact G, it seems unlikely he would 
have been able to make a claim under the warranty. And at this point it is possible it a 
breach of contract could be considered to have occurred. I am though mindful that Mr S has 
not had to pursue a claim under the warranty, so no actual  event has taken place which  
would have led to the contract being  breached. 
I also note that, when Mr S claimed  under s.75,  G was indeed an active  company. Soon 
after this, an application  to strike  G off the companies house register was made though, and 
in 2018 this company did indeed wind up. 
Taking these points into account it may be that, regardless  of whether G would have actually 
fulfilled the contract, no breach of contract had actually occurred at the time Nationwide  dealt  
with Mr Ss claim.  Given the overall  circumstances,  it might  have  been  appropriate for 
Nationwide to take a pragmatic view on this though. 
It is not necessary  for me to consider this point in too much depth  however. The key issue in 
this case is what the appropriate redress would have been  had there been a breach of 
contract in relation to the warranty. 
Ref: DRN49607524Is any compensation due to Mr S?
As well as considering  what the appropriate  redress would be for a breach of contract in 
relation to the warranty, it is also necessary  for me to consider Nationwides  overall  handling 
of this claim.  I will move onto this in due course. 
Firstly though, I think it is helpful for me to outline the normal approach to compensation in 
situations where there has been  a breach of contract. Our general  approach  in these  
situations is to try and put customers in the position they would have  been  in had the breach 
not occurred.  
So in this case, where the alleged breach of contract is a failure to provide  the warranty,  our 
approach would be to either have the warranty provided or to provide a refund  for the cost of 
that warranty to the customer (from  the point it was no longer provided).  
It is unlikely have been practical for Nationwide to have  provided a warranty  to Mr S. So, 
considering for the moment that there was a breach  of contract  at the time Nationwide  came 
to its decision on the s.75 claim, it would have been  reasonable for them  to have refunded  
any amount Mr S had paid for this warranty. 
But it would also be fair and reasonable for Nationwide to take into account any other  money 
recovered in relation to this warranty; i.e. to base its compensation  on the net cost of the 
warranty. Given the use of their joint account,  it is clear that Mr S and his wife made the 
purchase together, so the losses  are something they shared. And in this situation, Mr Ss 
wife had received  a payment from B in relation to the warranty.  So any compensation 
Nationwide should  reasonably have  paid should  take this into account.
The question that then comes from this, is whether  the cost of the warranty was greater than 
the sum paid by B. Limited evidence has been  provided  about  the cost of the warranty on its 
own. But our investigator  was able to refer to some information she obtained. This indicated 
that the cost of a 20 year warranty for an inverter might be £900 at the most. Given  Mr Ss 
warranty was apparently for a period of 5 years, it is most likely that it would have cost less 
than this. And neither party has provided  any alternative costs.
So taking this into account, I dont think it is most likely that the cost of the warranty was 
more than the amount paid by B to Mr Ss wife. And, as such, I dont consider Mr S or his 
wife have lost out as a result of any breach of contract that may have occurred in relation to 
the warranty. So, I dont  consider it would be fair or reasonable to require Nationwide  to 
compensate Mr S in relation to this. 
Mr S has talked  about the delays in responding to his claim. Nationwide  has apologised for 
these and has offered  Mr S £75. In deciding whether this is fair compensation I need  to 
consider the impact of these delays on Mr S. 
Mr S has referred to the fact he has been unable  to make a chargeback claim as a result of 
these delays. 
As with s.75 claims, chargebacks are only possible for certain issues.  The issues covered  
are wider,  and many  relate to payment issues such as being  charged twice. But I consider 
the only reasons  likely to be relevant to Mr Ss circumstances are for goods not being 
supplied or goods being faulty. 
Ref: DRN49607525As has been established above, Mr S and his wife have already received  an appropriate 
refund in relation to the warranty side of the contract  they entered.  So it would be fair that 
any chargeback on the payment made to G would have to be in relation to the optimiser.  
And as has already been mentioned, there is no indication that the optimiser  is faulty or was 
not supplied. 
In these circumstances, I think Gs bank would have been  able to successfully defend  the 
chargeback claims.  So I am not inclined  to consider  Mr S has lost out as a result of not being  
able to make  a chargeback claim.  And the only impact of the delays in receiving 
Nationwides response was the trouble and upset this caused Mr S in worrying  about his 
claim. I consider that an amount of £75 is a fair and reasonable level of compensation for 
this. 
Ultimately, whilst I am sympathetic  to Mr S, I am unable to conclude that Nationwide  has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining  his s.75 claim. And I consider the level of 
compensation offered to be appropriate.  
My final decision
I am aware  that Nationwide Building  Society has made an offer to pay £75. I conclude that 
such an offer is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. My decision is that 
Nationwide Building  Society should  pay Mr S £75 if it has not already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4960752