K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC failed to tell him that his motor  insurance 
policy had been  cancelled, so he drove uninsured  for several months.
background
Mr D took out a policy with Tesco in 2017.  The premium for the year was paid for by his 
mother (Mrs D) using  her credit card. She agreed at the time that Tesco  could retain her 
card details, so if the policy was renewed  the next year it could be used again. Tescos 
advisor said Mr D would be contacted before renewal to be told what  the payment  would  be. 
In 2018 Tesco sent Mr D a renewal invitation setting out the new premium and saying that 
payment would be taken from Mrs Ds card. The policy was renewed in February  2018.
In May 2018  Mrs D noted that £210.65 had been  taken from her credit card.  Through  the 
credit card company she found that Tesco  had taken  the money. But when  she called Tesco,  
it couldnt link the sum to her Tesco policy. Tesco asked  if she had any other products with it 
but she said she didnt.  Mrs D then requested  a chargeback by her credit card company. 
Tesco didnt  dispute it, as it didnt know what it had made the charge for. 
After the chargeback took place, Mr Ds policy showed on Tescos  system as having a 
payment outstanding. Tesco emailed  Mr D twice  asking  for payment before writing to him on 
8 June 2018 giving seven  days notice  of cancellation. As there was no response, it cancelled 
the policy. Mr D later found that his post had been  redirected in error by the Royal Mail. Hed 
also changed his email address, but hadnt told Tesco.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ds complaint. He thought  Tesco had acted 
reasonably. He noted that it had failed  to add Mr Ds telephone number to its file when he 
took the policy out. He didnt think that made  any difference to the outcome, as it isnt 
Tescos standard  process to call customers in the circumstances here.
As Mr D didnt  accept the investigators view, the complaint was passed to me for review.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D also had a policy with Tesco. I dont  think it was unreasonable for Tesco not to link her 
concern about  the payment taken from her card to Mr Ds policy. Its system didnt make  the 
connection - and Mrs D didnt mention when asked that there  was a policy other  than hers 
that her card was used  to pay for. I think its understandable that Mrs D had forgotten  the 
transaction, as it had happened over 12 months  previously. But that isnt Tescos  fault.  
I think Tesco did what it told Mrs D it would do at the time the first payment  was taken. It 
contacted Mr D about the payment to be made  at renewal from her card. I think  it was fair for 
Tesco to assume that Mr D would tell Mrs D about the new payment that was about to be 
taken from her account. Had he done so, none  of what followed is likely to have happened.  
Once the chargeback had been made,  the situation could still have been resolved easily 
enough, had Tesco had the right contact details for Mr D. Due to his personal circumstances 
hed didnt use his old email address. So he didnt get Tescos  emails about the payment that 
Ref: DRN45542072was now outstanding. Tesco then wrote to Mr D, in line with the policy  terms, to give him 
seven days notice of the cancellation. A payment made at that point would have stopped it. 
But due to an error made by the postal  service, Mr D didnt get the letter.  Nor did he get the 
letter advising him that the policy had been cancelled. So he continued to drive. 
Mr D thinks Tesco should have called him. He thinks the fact that it didnt record  his 
telephone number on the file meant  that wasnt possible. He thinks if Tesco  had called him 
the cancellation could have been  avoided. But it isnt standard  practice for Tesco to call 
consumers as part of the cancellation  process.  Many other  insurers also have a written 
cancellation process, so it isnt unusual for calls not to be made.  In my opinion,  not having 
his number on the file didnt affect  the outcome,  as it wouldnt have been used. And Tesco 
had no way of knowing that Mr D hadnt seen  its emails and letters. 
Tesco accepts that as it asked Mr D for his number when he took the policy out, it should 
have been recorded. It also accepts that it should have texted Mr Ds representative, rather  
than Mr D, about his complaint.  Tesco  has offered Mr D £75 compensation for these errors, 
which I think is reasonable. 
I have great  sympathy  for the position  Mr D has found himself in. Whilst driving  uninsured he 
was involved in an accident. Any repairs wont be covered by Tesco, as the policy  was 
cancelled back to the start. Mr D has also had to pay a fine for having no insurance.  He says 
hell have  penalty  points on his licence for the first time since he started driving over twenty 
years ago. Theres no suggestion that he and Mrs D were aware that theyd  done  anything to 
bring this situation  about. But in order for me to uphold Mr Ds complaint, hed have to show 
that Tesco had done something  wrong.  I dont  think  hes been  able to do that.  
As I dont think Mr Ds shown that Tesco acted unreasonably, despite  his understandable 
distress, I cant uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4554207