K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC gave him a loan that he didnt  need  and wasnt  
properly assessed  for. He says he felt pressured into accepting it over the phone  and that no 
income or affordability  checks were carried out. He is now in financial  difficulties  because  he 
isnt able to keep up with the repayments.
To put things right, Mr H would like Barclays to write off the loan and refund all interest and 
charges associated with it. He would also like compensation because the loan has put him 
into financial  difficulty and this has caused him upset.
background
In July 2013, Mr H took a loan with Barclays for £20,000 payable  over 60 months.  The 
repayment rate was £387.36 per month. 
In February 2015,  Mr H said that he was called by someone from Barclays offering him a top 
up loan of £25,000. He said that he was given £23,200 payable over 60 months. The 
repayment rate was £458.06 per month. 
Mr H says that this paid the balance of his existing loan which  amounted to £14,431.97  and 
gave him £8768.03 which was paid into his bank account.
Mr H met his payments  up until September  2018. He says that he then started to struggle as 
he had other  debts too. 
Mr H says that the loan was mis-sold  to him for the following  reasons. 
He did not make any application  for this loan.  
No affordability assessment was carried out to check he had the capacity to pay it 
back. 
Barclays didnt ask him for any documentary proof of his income.  
Barclays didnt make him aware  of any risk involved. He says he already had a loan. 
Barclays shouldnt have given  him another loan unless it was a restructure loan to 
ease off monthly payments. 
This was irresponsible lending.
Mr H said that he felt pressured into accepting the loan.  It was at a higher rate of interest  
than his other loan and he says that he didnt need it. 
He raised a complaint with Barclays. Barclays didnt think that they had done anything wrong 
in giving him the loan. 
Mr H wasnt happy with this outcome so he came to us. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt think  that Barclays had lent to Mr H 
irresponsibly. Nor did he think that the loan was unaffordable. 
Mr H didnt agree with this decision so the complaint has now come to me. 
Ref: DRN42722652my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that Mr H wont  be happy with my decision. Im not persuaded to uphold  his 
complaint. I will explain  why. 
Ive first considered whether Mr H did apply for the loan. Although  he signed no form, I think  
that he did take out the second loan in February 2015. After  the loan was agreed,  Mr H had 
time to opt out of it if he wanted to. The loan agreement allowed for this. Mr H chose  not to 
opt out so I find that he did agree to the loan.  
I think that the loan was affordable. It is clear  that Mr H stuck  to the repayments required for 
quite some time. He says that Barclays didnt check his financial status at the time the loan 
was taken. But I accept  what Barclays say  that they already knew quite a lot about his 
finances as he had an account with them. 
Mr H points to a letter that he got from Barclays saying that they might not have asked  the 
right questions when  they gave  him the loan. I have seen this letter. Barclays say that this 
was sent to a number  of people just to check  that they had got it right.  As they had looked at 
Mr Hs case already and concluded that the loan was affordable,  they say that they shouldnt 
have sent the letter  to him. I accept this. I dont think that Barclays did get it wrong  in giving 
Mr H the loan. 
Also, Mr H paid off a credit card debt with the loan that he got. The rate of interest  that he 
pays on the loan is, I imagine,  more favourable than that of the credit  card.  So, I think  that he 
is in a better position  having taken on the loan. 
Mr H has also raised a point regarding GDPR. This isnt something that I can look at and 
Mr H will have to take this up with Barclays. 
So, for the above reasons, I cant uphold  this complaint. I know that this isnt the outcome 
that Mr H wanted and I am sorry for this. But I hope that I have explained  why I cant  uphold  
the complaint.  
my final decision
I dont think that Barclays  Bank UK PLC lent irresponsibly  to Mr H. I think  that they were  right 
to offer him the loan.  So, I dont require them to do anything else.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4272265