K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr H says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. 
Mr H bought a Total  Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP) alongside a mortgage TMPP can be 
split into sections  Mortgage Repayments  Cover (which is a form of PPI), life cover and 
critical illness cover. Mr H has complained  about the PPI so Ive looked at the sale of the PPI 
cover only.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr H aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before  
adding it to his mortgage. Mr H has told us he was led to believe the policy was compulsory 
and he was pressured into taking it out. I dont know for certain  what  was said when the 
policy was sold, and there isnt much  paperwork  available, but from what  we know about  
how Halifax sold this type of policy at the time I think its likely  Halifax made Mr H aware the 
PPI was optional,  and he chose to take it out, although I can understand  why they may not 
remember this.
I have thought about what Mr H has said about being pressured  into taking the PPI but 
pressure can be subjective so Id need persuasive  evidence to uphold  this complaint on this 
basis, which I havent seen. So overall,  I havent  seen  enough  to make me think Halifax put 
pressure on Mr H to take the policy.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr H so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. Mr H 
has told us he would  have  received  some  sick at the time he took the PPI and had some 
savings. He also had other employee  benefits he could have relied on to help make his 
repayments. But the PPI would have  paid out in addition to and for longer than Mr H would 
have received sick pay, and allowed him to keep his savings in place to be used  towards 
other essential expenses. The PPI would also covered circumstances that Mr Hs other 
benefits wouldnt have.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Hs circumstances  at the time he wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
So I think the policy was right for him.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr H about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN47085882Ive thought about everything Mr H has said, including  that he didnt understand he was 
being sold PPI or what it was as English was his second language. But Mr H was taking out 
a mortgage  so he mustve  known that hed have to sign documents that wouldve been 
important for him to understand. I think it was his responsibility to make  sure he knew  what 
the documents said, and that he was happy  to sign them. 
Mr H has also told us he wasnt told  he could take PPI from an alternative provider. But 
Halfiax were not responsible for giving customers details of other providers products. So 
these points dont  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr H paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr H back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
If Halifax hasnt already made a payment to Mr H it will make  arrangements  to pay him now 
Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4708588