K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2004. Mrs E says Bank of Scotland PLC (Halifax at the time) mis-sold her the policy.
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Bank of Scotland as BoS throughout this decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Es case.  
And having done that, Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold.
Mrs E says that shes unhappy because PPI had been added  to her credit  card account with 
her knowledge.  But she also says she cant remember  being told about  PPI. This isnt that 
surprising. The event  in question did take place nearly 15 years  ago. And even the best of 
memories can struggle over that sort of time frame. So this is something I have to consider  
when weighing  up whats likely to have happened.
BoS has provided us with a copy of the credit card application and agreement that 
Mrs E signed at the time of sale. On this form there was a section called Product Details , 
below which read the following: If you want these services please mark the relevant boxes. 
One of the services was PPI. And in the box next to PPI there  is an X. This looks like it was 
computer generated  like the rest of the information  about Mrs E and it is, in my view,  the 
likely result of a conversation between  both parties as theres nothing persuasive  to suggest 
anything different. As Mrs E went on to sign the agreement not far from where it referred to 
PPI, I find it hard to argue that she didnt agree to take the policy. And given the evidence 
available, Im also not persuaded she only agreed  to take it because she thought  she had to.
BoS says that it recommended  the policy to Mrs E  which means  it had to check  that the 
PPI was right for her. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Es circumstances at the time, I think that the policy  was 
suitable for her. She doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the cover that was available. And based on what shes  told us about  her sick pay 
and ability  to keep  up with her repayments using other means,  she seems to have had a 
need for the cover.
I know Mrs E says she could have received help from her family. However, the monthly 
repayments were ultimately  her responsibility. And as her familys circumstances were 
subject to change  just like hers, Im not persuaded this made  BoSs recommendation 
unsuitable.
As well as making a suitable recommendation, BoS also had to give Mrs E clear information. 
So thats what Ive looked at next.
 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs E about  the policy wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But, for the same reasons I think the policy was a suitable recommendation to 
Ref: DRN44274202have made,  I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking it out 
as it looks like it would have been useful if something went  wrong.
This means  BoS doesnt  need to refund everything Mrs E paid for the policy.  But BoS has 
offered to give her back some of the cost of the PPI. And in light of what Ive said above,  
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
I understand BoS has already paid this to Mrs E.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4427420