K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains Starling Bank  Limited will not refund some disputed transactions.
background
Mr K opened  an account with Starling on 21st November 2018.  On 22nd November, an 
overdraft of £750 was applied for and accepted.
The following  day, five transactions were made from Mr Ks account totalling  £717.17.   
These all occurred in a period of approximately two hours and were  made  using the Apple 
Pay system.
On 2nd December, Mr K contacted Starling and complained.  He said someone had made 
these transactions  on his account and he wanted to be refunded. He said he hadnt applied  
for the overdraft and couldnt have made the transactions as he was in college when they 
were made.  However, in its final response, Starling rejected his complaint  and said it was 
holding him liable for the transactions.
Mr K asked this service to consider his complaint  then  but our investigator did not think he 
could ask Starling  to do anymore either.  The matter was then passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I will not 
be asking Starling to refund  this money.  My  reasons are very much  the same  as the 
investigator.
Generally speaking, Starling can hold Mr K liable for these transactions  if the evidence 
suggests thats it more  likely than not that he made them or authorised  them himself.  And 
Mr K doesnt  have to made the transactions  himself  if he consented to the payments being  
made, he can be held liable.
Im satisfied from the evidence I have  seen that Mr K authorised these payments for the 
following reasons;
-Mr K accepts  his phone was used  to open  the account.  But the following day a 
different phone was used  to access his account and, most likely, apply for the 
overdraft. For a fraudster to do that, they would need to have access  to Mr Ks phone 
as a one-time  passcode would have been sent to that.  Mr K says he always  had his 
phone in his possession  so no opportunity for anyone to have had access  to it.
-Not only would a fraudster have needed  access to Mr Ks phone  (and as I said,  this is 
highly unlikely to have happened), they would also need access to the password  for 
the Starling bank app.  Mr K says he never  shared this with anyone.
-Each time a transaction  was made,  notification  was sent to the phone  registered on 
the account.  I think it would be unlikely that Mr K would not have been aware of the 
transactions taking  place.
Ref: DRN43490912Essentially, Mr K is suggesting  that a day after he opened an account, his security  details  
and phone were  compromised by an unknown fraudster.  This person applied for an 
overdraft and then used the account  to the maximum amount.
I dont think Mr Ks version of events  is plausible or credible.  I think  he allowed a third 
person to access his information and use his account to make these transactions.  In the 
circumstances, I will not be asking Starling  to refund this money.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4349091