K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about the service he received from Funding Circle Ltd (FC).  He feels  that 
new on-line security measures put in place by FC caused him frustration and they are not fit 
for purpose.  He also complains that he was not given  prior notification of the implementation 
of these measures.
background
Mr F had held an account with FC for some  time.  In November 2018, when he logged into 
his account he received  an automated  email  indicating there had been a 'new device' login. 
The email  asked him to contact FC if it wasnt him who had attempted  the log in. Feeling that 
his account may have  been compromised, Mr F rang FC who confirmed  that the email had 
been generated as a result of the introduction of a new security  measure.  Mr F confirmed 
that it had been him who had attempted to log in and he was assured that he need  not be 
further concerned.
Mr F said he was also unhappy with the reCaptcha  security system as he had been unable 
to pass that security stage  successfully.  He said the information displayed on the screen was 
impossible to read precisely  as he found the images to be ambiguous. FCs advisor  
explained the system  to Mr F and thereafter  he was able to successfully login to his account.
FC said it had implemented the new on-line security  measures to enhance the protection  for 
their customers. It explained the reason the automated email had been produced was 
because it had been Mr Fs first login  since the introduction of the new system and his 
device had not been recognised. It pointed out that Mr Fs concerns had been addressed 
immediately when he contacted FC in accordance with the instruction provided in the email.  
Further, it said that its Terms of Use provided  that it didnt guarantee access to the website 
and platform.
FC also said that the reCaptcha system was working correctly and that in Mr Fs case 
access had been  denied due to user error.  Mr F was unhappy  with FCs response and so an 
investigator from this service looked into the complaint but didnt think FC had done  anything 
wrong.
Mr F disagreed with our investigators view and so the matter has been passed  to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My decisions are based on the available 
evidence and where evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory,  I reach  my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is more likely  to 
have happened  in light of that evidence and the wider  circumstances.  I should  make it clear 
that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual complaints and to 
award redress where appropriate.  I aim to ensure a fair and reasonable outcome has been  
achieved.
I think we have an unfortunate situation  here. Quite clearly Mr F experienced some difficulty 
logging into his account and that was because of the introduction of the new security  system. 
He also became concerned when he received the automated  email.
Ref: DRN43199132But what  I need to decide is whether FC acted  fairly  and reasonably  in how it dealt with Mr F. 
FC were  entitled to introduce added security  measures  and those  measures were  for the 
benefit of all its customers including  Mr F. I know Mr F feels FC should  have given  him 
advance warning of the new security  measures, but providing the automated  email  response 
upon first login was a reasonable  and proportionate step to take. The email was clear in 
telling Mr F what  to do, and when  he contacted  FC he was assured that there had been no 
compromise of his account.  That is a perfectly  reasonable procedure  and not in my view 
onerous when  taken in the context of protection against on-line fraud. So Im afraid I do not 
consider that FC has done anything wrong  by the introduction of the security  system nor in 
the way it dealt with Mr Fs first login thereafter. And I dont think  it would have been 
proportionate for FC to have emailed all their customers before hand  as well, because  the 
system it did put in place  was reasonable.
It is also unfortunate that Mr F experienced difficulty in going  through  the reCaptcha process. 
I can accept that on occasions the reCaptcha process seemingly  does not work  from the 
perspective of a customer.  It seems that our investigator has experienced this himself, as 
have I. I cannot say whether in Mr Fs that was because of user error or a difficulty with the 
system, but when access is refused, the customer is given further  opportunities to pass 
through that level of security. Once  again,  this is not an onerous or time consuming task, and 
the fact that access  is declined  shows the system is working to protect the customer.  It is 
perhaps irritating, but I cannot  say that it has resulted  in FC treating Mr F unfairly.
So I cant say that FC has done  anything wrong here. I know  Mr F will be disappointed with 
my decision  but I have come to the same  conclusion as the investigator and for similar 
reasons, and so Im not going to ask it to do anything further and Im not upholding Mr Fs 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Funding Circle Ltd.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4319913