K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc has dealt with a claim under a home  
insurance policy.
background
Mrs R initiated a claim in August 2016 after noticing water under a sub-floor.  There is a 
detailed background to Mrs Rs claim and what  AXA has done to assess it and decide what 
repairs are covered by the policy. AXA accepted responsibility for some delays and poor 
claim handling and in recognition of the impact this had on Mrs R offered  compensation 
amounting to around £1,600.
Mrs R didnt think the amount fairly reflected the impact on her. She has outlined  in detail the 
impact from uncertainty  about what was happening  and the impact the claim has had on her 
health and work. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and gave a detailed  view recommending  
AXA pay more compensation. In summary the investigator referred to; poor inspection work, 
a lack of clarity about alternative accommodation,  delays in accepting liability,  periods of 
inaction on claim progression, poor communication at times and an avoidable lengthy period 
in alternative accommodation.  
AXA agreed to raise compensation to £2,100, which the investigator considered to be fair 
and reasonable.  Mrs R didnt think this was sufficient.  She has provided detailed responses  
to the investigator  and, in short, feels that substantially more should be paid. Mrs R has 
described having to take annual leave to accommodate meetings, poor performance  at work 
and other  impacts as a result of the claim handling. Mrs R asked for an ombudsman to make 
a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  Im required to decide is what fair and reasonable compensation is in all the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Currently AXA has agreed to pay Mrs R a total of £2,200  to reflect  the distress and 
inconvenience caused as a result  of the delays and poor claim handling. For the avoidance 
of doubt I have read all the information  both AXA and Mrs R have sent us. And while there  is 
considerable detail I dont  intend to rehearse  it all in this decision. 
What is clear from the information  is that this wasnt a simple claim. Indeed the cause  of 
water ingress into Mrs Rs property has been investigated in detail and it has taken time to 
move closer  to the actual  cause. Some claims have elements of complexity and these take 
time to resolve. And what is an additional aspect  to Mrs Rs claim is that a neighbouring 
property and owners have to be brought into the investigation of her claim.  The claim 
involves multi-facets and multi-parties and these issues will unavoidably mean it takes  longer  
for AXA to finalise its investigation and what aspects of damage  are covered by the policy 
and so require  repairing  at AXAs expense.  
Ref: DRN46326072I dont underestimate  how stressful Mrs R has found the whole situation. Some of this has 
been caused by AXA but some is just part and parcel of a complex  event such  as she has 
experienced. Being out of her home is undoubtedly  a source of frustration but that was 
inevitable for a period, albeit not as long as it has been due to some  of the delays and poor 
handling. But it would be wholly unreasonable for me to find that AXA bears responsibility for 
the entirety of what has gone wrong to include the issue that underlies the claim itself.
Ive thought carefully about all the information including;  some periods of delay in 
progressing the claim;  poor claim handling; and at times poor communication leading  to 
uncertainty at crucial  times. I accept  that these issues  have contributed to an already difficult  
and stressful  time.  Mrs R submits that all this has had a negative impact on her health, work  
life and personal life. I accept that it has had some  impact  although  Im not persuaded by the 
evidence that it is the sole and direct  cause. And while Mrs R describes the offer as derisory 
Im satisfied that £2,200 fairly  reflects  the distress and inconvenience caused by AXAs  
failings in the way it has dealt with the claim. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mrs R £2,200  
compensation for distress and inconvenience  (less  any compensation it has already paid)
AXA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs R accepts 
my final decision. If AXA pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation 
from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4632607