K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc wasnt able to whether confirm  calls it had made  to 
him were genuine. 
background
On the 3 May 2019 Mr D received some calls from a 0800  telephone number. When  he tried 
to return them, an automated message advised him that hed been contacted by Santander. 
He sent Santander a message using  its online  messaging facility. And the next day received 
a response telling him that it wasnt able to confirm if the number hed been called from was 
a genuine Santander number. It asked  him to call its customer service number if he had any 
concerns.
Mr D has explained that he was very distressed  by this, and was concerned  he might have 
been the target of phishing. Hed like Santander to compensate him appropriately.
Santander confirmed  that the calls Mr D had received had been made by its complaint team. 
It said that the advisor who responded to his online message wouldnt have had access  to its 
complaints database  to see this, and that there  wasnt anything in Mr Ds message that 
would have alerted the advisor  to the fact hed previously  made  a complaint. 
Our investigator noted Mr D was unhappy  with the content of the message Santander had 
sent him. But felt it had responded  to his query promptly,  and quickly  confirmed that the calls 
had been genuine when  he rang the number  it provided. She also didnt think Santanders  
response had suggested  Mr D had reason to be unduly concerned.  But felt that any worry 
hed experienced had been quickly resolved.
Mr D disagrees  with this view. Hes unhappy Santander wasnt  able to confirm  sooner 
whether calls it had made were genuine. So the case has been  passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr D will be disappointed,  but Im 
not going to ask Santander to pay him any compensation here. Ill explain why.
Santander attempted to call Mr D on 3 May 2019  in relation to a complaint hed raised with it 
about another matter. That complaint is being dealt with by our service separately, so I wont 
make any further reference to it here.
When Mr D tried to call the number back he heard an automated message advising him that 
Santander had tried to contact him. So he sent it an online secure  message  to query this and 
asked it to contact him in writing instead.
Santander responded to his message and said that On review of the number you have 
provided, I am currently unable to see this is a genuine Santander number . And it went on 
to ask him to call its customer service number  if he had any concerns about the call.
I appreciate why Mr D might have been alarmed by this. But Santander has explained  that 
the advisor who responded to his message  wouldnt have had a list of all the outbound 
numbers that Santander  uses.
Ref: DRN45654922I think the message  it sent him could have perhaps been  worded differently to explain that 
the advisor had a limited ability to check this for him. But I do note that Mr D was given a 
telephone number he could call if he wanted  to discuss his concerns further.  And when he 
called that number on 4 May 2019 I can hear that Santander quickly confirmed that its 
complaints team had been trying  to call him.
I understand Mr D is unhappy  Santander couldnt  confirm this in its earlier  message. But its 
not the role of this service to review Santanders  processes,  or ask it to change  the 
information its advisors have access to when responding  to queries. And like our 
investigator, Im satisfied  that it gave him information as to how he could contact it in a way 
in which  it would be able to assist him further. And that it clarified the matter for him promptly 
when he did this. So overall I dont feel a payment of compensation is warranted here.
Mr D has also told us hes unhappy that Santander  sent him a letter  telling him it had 
resolved his complaint without any explanation. But having listened to the calls he had with 
it, Im satisfied it had discussed his concerns  with him and explained its position over the 
telephone. And I can see the letter let him know he could  contact our service if he remained 
unhappy. So whilst I appreciate hell be disappointed with my decision, Im not going  to ask 
Santander to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4565492