K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr M says Capital  One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Capital One had to make it clear that the policy was optional and Mr M had to agree  to take it 
out. Mr M has said the policy was added without  his knowledge or consent.
Ive been given a copy of the credit card application  form that was completed at the time and 
on this form there is a section about PPI. In this section there are boxes to tick to accept or 
decline the cover and I can see that a tick has been placed in the yes box. If Mr M didnt 
want to take out the PPI he could have ticked the no box. Mr M has also signed  the overall 
form which suggests he agreed with everything that had been entered.
In addition  to this, Ive also seen copies of Mr Ms credit card statements and the charge 
for PPI is shown as a separate entry.  If Mr M didnt know what  this extra charge was for, 
or hadnt agreed to take out the PPI, I think he would have questioned at the time.
So, based on everything Ive seen and been told, I think Capital One made it clear that the 
policy was optional and that Mr M agreed  to take it out, knowing he could refuse it if he 
didnt want it.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to decide for himself if 
it was right for him.
Its possible  the information Capital One gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI by ticking  the box on the application form 
so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover - so it would have  been useful for him if something went  wrong. It also looks like the 
PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M. 
But Capital One has paid back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr M, 
that was unfair.
Ref: DRN41413572To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Capital One (Europe)  plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4141357