K820x#14complaint
Mr H says MMP Financial  Limited  trading as Swift Sterling irresponsibly lent to him. He feels  
that a credit  report wouldve shown that he had outstanding debt repayments from previous 
payday loans  as well as other  credit. And so Swift Sterling shouldnt  have lent to him. 
background
This complaint is about one payday  and two instalment loans Swift Sterling provided to Mr H 
between July and August  2018. Mr Hs lending history is as follows:
loan 
numberdate takenamount 
borrowedterm date repaid
1 18/07/2018 £200 3 months 31/07/2018
2 02/08/2018 £200 6 months 14/08/2018
3 10/08/2018 £325 6 months 21/082018
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint.  Mr H disagreed and the complaint has been  
passed to me, an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Swift Stirling needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Swift  Stirling should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Ref: DRN44456212Ive seen a record  of the information Mr H provided  when he completed his loan application. 
Mr H said he had a monthly  income  of £1,600  and regular monthly outgoings of £450. So the 
loan repayments  wouldve  appeared affordable  to Swift Sterling. 
I can see from the credit file information  provided by both sides  that Mr H had some 
problems with credit of various  types  in the past.  But these dont seem to be ongoing. Swift 
Stirlings credit checks  showed  that Mr H had six active  accounts  which  included  credit 
cards, telecommunications and a current account.  And that he wasnt  in arrears  on any of his 
accounts or had any other loans. Mr Hs credit file shows a similar  picture. Considering this, 
alongside what Mr H told Swift Sterling, there wasnt anything to suggest  he was currently  
having significant problems repaying  his other  credit.  
I havent seen  any further information  that shows its likely Swift Stirling  was made aware of 
any financial  problems Mr H mightve been having.  Or anything  that wouldve prompted  it to 
investigate Mr Hs circumstances further.  So I think it was reasonable for Swift Stirling to rely 
on the information it obtained.
So, overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Swift Stirling did for these loans 
were proportionate. And I think  its decision to lend for loans 1 to 3 were reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019. 
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4445621