K821x#15complaint
Mr W says Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
The card and policy were  originally sold by Egg  but Barclays has taken responsibility for 
the sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to Barclays in my decision.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mr W took out in 2007. It was added  to his 
account when  he applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint because I dont think Barclays  gave Mr W clear  
enough information about the policies costs and benefits. I think  this would have mattered to 
Mr W because  he had company sick pay, savings and an insurance policy, which  meant he 
could have met his credit  card repayments  for a while  without the policy.  
So I think Mr W probably wouldnt have wanted  the policy if hed properly understood the 
cost and benefits. And I dont think Mr W wouldve bought the policy if Barclays had given 
him enough information about it. So, I think Mr W has lost out because  of what  Barclays did 
wrong. 
Ive taken into account Barclayss comments,  including what  it said about part the first six 
months of Mr Ws sick pay being at the managers  discretion. But the insurance policy that 
followed wouldve continued until he returned to work, and he also had savings.  So on 
balance, I think that he had enough cover  in place to not need the policy.  And I still think I 
should uphold  the complaint.
what the business needs  to do
Barclays should put Mr W in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.Barclays should  find out how much Mr W would have  owed  when he closed his credit 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Ref: DRN47022142Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr W owed when he closed 
his account and what he would have owed  if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays  can take off what  he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.Barclays should  add simple interest  on the difference between what  Mr W would have 
owed when he closed his account  from when  he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Barclays works out what Mr W would have owed each month  without PPI  
Mr W paid more than enough  to clear his balance, Barclays  should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Mr W paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mr W wouldve owed  Barclays something  on his credit card. The interest rate 
should 8% a year.
D.Barclays should  tell Mr W what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Barclays  to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mr W a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4702214