K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc trading  as Halifax  mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr B and Mrs B took out their mortgage  in 2010. At the same time,  they bought a Total 
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). TMPP is a packaged protection  plan and it consisted of 
three parts - Mortgage Repayments Cover (PPI), critical illness  and life cover.  They applied 
for the mortgage  and PPI policy in branch. They also applied  for the critical illness  and life 
cover. But to be clear  I am only looking at the PPI part of the policy in this decision.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr B only (not Mrs B) for accident,  sickness, and 
unemployment  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £1,301.83 a 
month towards Mr B and Mrs Bs mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. At the 
time, it cost £90.47  a month. 
In his questionnaire  to this service Mr B said he was self-employed,  but the evidence 
suggests that at the time of the sale Mr B was employed as a recruitment manager and had 
been since 2008. He hasnt told us about  any sick pay he got but he said he did have  around  
£8,500 worth of savings  which he said was equal  to more than three months  but less than 
six months of his pay. Mr B has said he was in good  health at the time of the sale.  
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account started in 2010. 
Mr B and Mrs Bs representative  has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr B and Mrs Bs representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr B and Mrs B 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr B and 
Mrs Bs representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely Mr B and Mrs B could 
make a successful claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by 
the low claims  ratio.  The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means Halifax  should 
have told Mr B and Mrs B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr B and Mrs 
B and the impact  they would  have  had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN43797072The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr B and Mrs B received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr B and Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr B and Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr B and Mrs Bs 
complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2010 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
Ref: DRN43797073a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Halifax  was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr B and Mrs B with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN43797074-Whether Halifax gave Mr B and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information  
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr B 
and Mrs B, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what  extent Mr B and Mrs B 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr B and Mrs B 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr B and Mrs B know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Halifax has been able to provide copies of various  documents from the time of the sale.  
Theres nothing in the paperwork which would indicate that Mr B and Mrs B were likely  told 
they had to have the cover in order to secure their mortgage. The mortgage offer confirms 
that Mr B and Mrs B didnt need  to take out any insurance through  the Halifax  and Mr B and 
Mrs B were  also sent letters confirming the products they had chosen  and the terms of 
acceptance. So if theyd  wanted to question  anything  they could have done so - the 
evidence doesnt  suggest this happened. In addition,  the PPI only covered Mr B. It also looks  
like the benefit  was selected and these things indicate to me they likely had a choice about  
who should be covered by the policy.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr B and Mrs B knew  the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says advice was given. Mr B and Mrs B havent recalled whether this was an advised 
sale.  Looking at what happened at the time,  I can see from the evidence  that questions  
were asked of Mr B and Mrs Bs circumstances and a tailored recommendation was made  
so to be clear I will look at this sale as an advised  sale. 
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr B and Mrs B with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know exactly what was discussed in the meeting, the documentary  evidence 
suggests that Halifax took some steps  to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr B and Mrs B. The adviser had information about some  of Mr B and 
Mrs Bs financial circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although a demands 
and needs statement was completed to try and establish whether Mr B and Mrs B had a 
need for the policy  by asking questions about their wider  circumstances such  as any health 
issues  I dont think it did enough  to ensure the PPI was suitable.  For example, I dont think  
the evidence indicates they asked about  their sick pay entitlement if they couldnt  work. 
Ref: DRN43797075Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr B and Mrs B given their circumstances.  
So Im not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr B and Mrs B, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr B and Mrs B had a need for the policy  Mr B was the main wage earner and it 
seems likely Mr B and Mrs Bs finances  would be put under strain  if he was not 
working. He hasnt told us about any sick pay he was entitled to but even allowing for 
any he would have  received, this policy would  have paid out in addition to and likely 
for longer  than his full pay from work. It would also allow his savings to be left intact. 
The policy would have helped Mr B and Mrs B manage the consequences were Mr B 
was unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr B and Mrs B.
 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr B and Mrs B. 
There was nothing  about Mr Bs employment  or occupation which  would have made 
it difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability and unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr B and Mrs Bs 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr B and Mrs B sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr B and Mrs B were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr B was unable to work through  accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr B and Mrs 
B would have taken  out the policy without  any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr B and Mrs B agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr B and Mrs B Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr B and Mrs B all of 
Ref: DRN43797076the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr B and Mrs Bs representative has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr B and 
Mrs Bs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr B and Mrs Bs representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr B and Mrs B about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr B and Mrs Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr B and Mrs B have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr B and Mrs B? To what extent did 
Mr B and Mrs B suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr B and 
Mrs B. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr 
B and Mrs B suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr B and Mrs B would have still taken out the policy, had Halifax done  things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr B and Mrs B, I have found  that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr B and Mrs B have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if Halifax had explained things  
properly, Mr B and Mrs B would have  acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr B and Mrs B say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN43797077Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr B and Mrs B had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax  advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr B and Mrs Bs circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr B and Mrs B knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Halifax told them the exact premium  at the point 
Mr B and Mrs B applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mr B and Mrs B would 
have been told the cost before the policy started. I can see that the information  given to Mr B 
and Mrs B after they had accepted the cover gave details of the cost and the benefit  of the 
policy and they paid for the policy for a number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at 
odds with their expectations  at the point of sale, its possible they might have raised that with 
Halifax at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr B and Mrs B would  have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr B and Mrs B would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr B and 
Mrs Bs expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B and Mrs B thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any chronic condition  or condition, injury, 
illness, disease, sickness and or associated symptoms whether diagnosed or not that 
Mr B knew  about  or should reasonably have known at the start date or had seen a 
doctor during  the 12 months  before  the start date unless  Mr B had been symptom  
free and had not consulted a doctor or received  treatment for the condition within 24 
months before the claim;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr B be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
Ref: DRN43797078The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr B and Mrs B pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B and Mrs B from taking  out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr B and Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr B was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr B wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr B didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and it looks likely from the evidence that he was in 
permanent employment.  So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr B and 
Mrs B might reasonably have expected.  But its unlikely they would have expected to be able 
to make a disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  
And while this limitation might have dissuaded  some  consumers in slightly different  
circumstances to Mr B and Mrs B from taking out the policy,  Mr B and Mrs B, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr B and Mrs B had known  they could only claim for disability  if Mr B was not only unable 
to do his job or any similar job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he 
might reasonably be qualified for, it might have played  into their thinking  about what  they 
would do. And I accept  it may have given  them pause for thought  although given Mr Bs 
circumstances, on balance, I still think they would  have  been interested in taking out the 
cover for Mr B.
Halifax may not have  told Mr B and Mrs B that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was likely a longer period than Mr B would  have received  full sick pay for, and 
Mr Bs statutory  redundancy  entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr B and Mrs B would still have thought  a policy  
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr B be unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Mr B and Mrs Bs savings for other 
use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr B and Mrs B would still have taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable  for Mr 
B, was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr B was made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
Ref: DRN43797079than not Mr B and Mrs B would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr B and Mrs Bs representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr B and Mrs B would  not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr B and Mrs 
Bs circumstances  as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr B 
and Mrs B found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would  
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr B and Mrs B believe the presumption  may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr B and Mrs B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr B and Mrs B compensation, as that would  
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr B and Mrs B think Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr B and Mrs B, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2010 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ref: DRN437970710Ive also thought about the approach Mr B and Mrs Bs representative  says a court might 
take if it were to find Halifax negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr B and Mrs B and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach  of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr B and Mrs B in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 August 2021.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4379707