K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains about end of contract charges  when her agreement with Lex Autolease  Ltd 
ended.
background
In September  2016 Miss L was supplied with a car and entered  into a personal contract hire 
agreement.
At the end of the agreement the car was inspected. Lex asked Miss L to pay charges for 
damage.
Miss L complained to Lex. She was unhappy about the damage charges and the length of 
time it had taken Lex to respond to her.
In its final response Lex said the damage went beyond fair wear  and tear. It acknowledged 
that it hadnt dealt with Miss Ls complaint in a timely manner and offered £50 by way of 
apology.
Miss L wasnt  happy with the response  and complained to this service. She said she thought  
the car had been damaged after it had left her possession.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She was satisfied  that the damage went beyond 
fair wear and tear and that the charges were  fair. She also said there  wasnt  any evidence  to 
suggest that the damage was sustained  after the car had left Miss Ls possession.
Miss L didnt  agree.  She said the collection agent  had taken photos of the car at the time of 
collection and she didnt  think these  would show the damage claimed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the agreement say that Miss L must return  the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds  fair wear and tear is the customers  
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these are accepted  as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage  exceeds fair wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos. This identifies  damage to the 
wheels, doors, and panel which Lex says goes beyond fair wear and tear and is therefore  
chargeable. The damage to all of these arears is clearly visible and Im satisfied  having  
regard to the BVLRA guidelines that it exceeds  fair wear and tear.
Because of this, I dont think Lex has acted unfairly in asking  Miss L to pay the damage 
charges.
Ive taken into account what Miss L has said about the damage being sustained  after the car 
left her possession. She hasnt provided any photos  of the car before it left her possession 
Ref: DRN46408522so I cant carry  out a comparison. Based  on what Ive seen, the extent of the damage  is 
across several different areas  of the car, so I think its unlikely that the damage  couldve 
occurred after the car left Miss Ls possession.
For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint. Miss L is liable to pay the 
charges.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or reject my decision before 
30 April 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4640852