K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) cancelled  his telematics 
motor insurance policy.  He wants it reinstated.
background
RSA said it cancelled Mr Es telematics policy because hed been recorded driving at a 
highly dangerous speed. Mr E said hed had trouble  finding cover elsewhere because  of this. 
He agreed that hed been speeding  at the time. But he thought  he deserved a second  
chance. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought Mr Es 
policys terms and conditions said that it would be cancelled if he drove at a dangerous 
speed. Mr E admitted  hed been  speeding but he disagreed with how fast hed gone. She 
thought RSA had shown  that its telematics box was recording accurately. So she thought 
RSA was entitled to cancel  the policy. 
Mr E replied  that he didnt  think hed been  going as fast as RSA said he had. He asked for 
his complaint to be reviewed, so its come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr E brought his complaint to us just within the six months since RSA issued 
its response to his complaint. So this is a complaint I can consider. Mr E said he decided to 
come to us as he hadnt able to find cover elsewhere at an affordable price due to the 
cancellation. I can understand  that this must be frustrating and I can see that hes 
disappointed with RSAs decision.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.  I can see that Mr Es policy 
details were sent to him when the policy started. These told him where to find his policy  
online. 
I think Mr Es policy clearly states in two places that RSA can cancel the policy  if he drives at 
unacceptably high speeds.  RSA said Mr E was recorded driving  at 105 mph in a 70 mph 
zone. Mr E said RSA had told him the speed was 115 mph, which was more than his car 
could do. But Ive not seen this recorded elsewhere. I think  it was reasonable for RSA to 
consider a speed of 35 mph above the limit as unacceptable. 
RSA said its technicians checked the accuracy of the data provided by the telematics box. 
Ive seen evidence  of this. Mr E agreed  he had been speeding on this occasion, although he 
said he wasnt going that fast. RSA said Mr E hadnt challenged any data in the five months  
hed had the policy. So I think it was reasonable for it to conclude that the data had been 
recorded accurately.
Ref: DRN44684442RSA said it reviewed Mr Es driving  behaviour in the five months since hed had his policy.  It 
said after an initial  good  period, his behaviour had lately declined and it had sent Mr E 
warnings of this. Ive looked at the driving data and I cant  see that there  were  any serious 
issues before the incident in question. Also I havent seen these warnings. But I dont  think  
this is significant  as RSA said the incident in question was so severe it didnt warrant a 
warning but cancellation. 
RSA spoke to Mr E the day after the speeding  event.  It discussed this with him and said it 
would cancel the policy. It sent Mr E a cancellation  notification letter with seven days  notice, 
according to the policy terms and conditions. And then it sent Mr E the cancellation letter.  
Mr E said he should have had a warning and a second chance. But I cant see that RSA was 
required to do this by the policy terms and conditions. I can understand that this has had 
severe consequences for Mr E. But I think RSA was entitled to decide  to cancel the policy  by 
the terms and conditions. And so I dont think it acted incorrectly  and I dont require it to 
reinstate the policy. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4468444