K821x#15complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the way that Zurich Insurance PLC dealt with his landlord  insurance 
claim for flood damage to his let property.
 
background
In early March 2018 Mr H made a claim to Zurich  after his let property suffered serious water 
damage. Zurich  appointed loss adjusters who in turn arranged for the property to be dried 
out. Drying units were installed in mid-April 2018. Then  asbestos  was discovered and 
matters were held up while testing was carried out. Delays  were caused because  the drying 
company werent  being proactive enough. They were replaced by another  contractor. Zurich 
advised that the previous  contractors had caused delays of about two months  and paid 
compensation of £200 which Mr H accepted. Loss of rent was also paid initially up until 
September 2018.
Repairs got under way. Zurich agreed  to extend the loss of rent payment until the end of 
October 2018. Mr H visited the property  towards  the end of October and identified a number 
of snagging issues.  After an on-site meeting  with the contractors they agreed to deal with the 
issues which they estimated would take another four weeks. It was agreed  that loss of rent 
would be paid up until 15 December.  However  the loss adjusters believed the repairs  were  
prolonged because Mr H caused  delays  due to his lack of flexibility in negotiations.  Mr H 
visited the property  in mid-December after the works were supposed to have finished, and 
raised further issues. Zurich believed these  to be minor issues,  not preventing the property 
from being habitable again.
Mr H arranged for a Gas Safe engineer to inspect the boiler and gas hob. He was concerned 
about noise coming  from ther boiler and about  excessive yellow flames coming from the gas 
hob. The engineer identified a number  of issues which needed to be resolved. For two of 
those issues he said that the boiler  was at risk meaning it couldnt be used. The contractors 
came back  to fix the problem with the gas appliances. However they said the boiler had 
been correctly  installed and suspected it had been  tampered with.
Zurich agreed to pay the Council Tax on the property up until March  2019. Mr H said there 
still matters outstanding which Zurich hadnt  dealt with. He had had to pay to have these 
resolved himself. Zurich  said it had dealt with issues it believed it had liability for but agreed 
there had been  delays,  and apologised for the stress and worry caused to Mr H and for his 
dissatisfaction with the work, which it believed it had done its best to resolve. It offered to 
pay a further £500  compensation but wouldnt pay any further  loss of rent.
Mr H didnt accept the proposed  payment.  He said there were  still outstanding matters which 
he hadnt been paid for. He further said his loss of rent hadnt  been calculated properly so he 
was short  in that respect.
On referral to this service  ultimately our investigator thought that Zurich  had acted 
reasonably and had offered sufficient compensation.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought Zurich should  pay further loss of rent 
for the time the property  wasnt habitable due to the boiler being unsafe. And that it should 
pay Mr Hs cost for flushing and repairing the heating and for repairing the toilet, and the cost 
of repairing  the door.
Ref: DRN46429512Mr H and Zurich didnt  agree with my provisional  findings. Ill deal with those comments in 
my findings  below. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr Hs detailed response to my provisional  findings. I wont  go through it all point by 
point as if mostly reiterates comments and sets out details of his case hes already  shared 
with us. I do confirm that Ive considered  all the points he has made. I wont comment  further 
on the background as thats  intended to be a narrative of what happened in the case  rather 
than any findings.  In respect  of his particular comments on my provisional findings,  Ill deal 
with those below.
In my provisional findings I said:
Mr H has drawn up a list of all the snagging  issues and I appreciate his making such  a 
comprehensive list. However I wont itemise every  issue, and will only deal in this decision 
with those issues Mr H regards as outstanding.  In any large  job there will inevitably be 
snagging issues that arise, and I note that the majority of them were dealt with. I understand 
that Mr H spent some time negotiating  over them  but as renting properties is his business 
thats unfortunately something he had to do. Ill take it into account any extra inconvenience 
caused in the overall  compensation I award, but I wont be awarding any payment for his 
time spent. 
I understand Mr Hs feeling that he has lost valuable time and money and that he is still 
feeling the effects of it. My findings relate  to the way the claim was dealt with and I have  
made clear in what respects  I think Zurich should compensate  Mr H further. But I dont 
intend to award  any further payment. 
In my provisional findings I said:
Mr H says the following issues werent dealt  with or left unrepaired  by the contractors
Boiler/ gas hob
Noise in the system
Toilet
Shower
Rear Door 
Plastering
Garden debris/maintenance
Rear light
boiler/gas hob
The contractors installed a new boiler and gas hob. Mr H had the installation checked by a 
Gas Safe engineer.  He identified several issues with both appliances which  were  marked  
Not to current standards.  Also with the boiler  he noted two issues  with a category of At 
Risk. This meant that the boiler couldnt be used until the defects were dealt with. The 
contractors returned  to the property on 8 January to deal with all the outstanding issues.
Ref: DRN46429513The two at risk issues were 1 The flue integrity  test point cap was missing and 2 The 
boilers chimney/flue air duct collar  had not been screwed to the chimney/flue air duct and
chimney/flue elbow of the gas boiler.  In respect  of the latter  it was recommended  to check  
the position with the manufacturers.
Zurichs contractors said that the test point cap was in place  when the work was finished, 
and has shown us a photo,  so it says it must have been tampered  with. With regard to the 
screwing of the boiler to the flues it has had confirmation from the manufacturers  that it 
wasnt necessary. As the other work  wouldnt have stopped the appliances being  used it 
doesnt believe that that would have prevented a tenant taking up a tenancy. The property 
has to be uninhabitable for the loss of rent cover  to apply.
I dont think theres any evidence that the boiler was tampered with. I would observe that 
Zurichs photo shows the boiler with the warning sticker on it not to use, so must have been  
taken after the Gas Safe inspection. As the boiler  wasnt able to be used  I think  the property 
was still uninhabitable up until 8 January 2019 when  the repairs  were carried out. I 
understand Mr Hs point that he had to wait until the Gas Safe engineer  returned  in mid-
February to certify the repairs. However factually I think  the property was inhabitable from 
the point the repairs to the boiler  were completed  and that is when the policy  liability  for rent 
receivable ended.
So Zurich  should  pay loss of rent by paying  for the whole month of December  2018  up until 
the rent date of 5 January. From then it should pay pro-rated rent for four days  based  on 
4/31 of the monthly payment. Ive considered Mr Hs argument  that this should be based  on 
the years payment, but I think  it fair in this case for it to be based on the monthly payment. 
Zurich should  add interest at 8% on the payment.
Zurich says the boiler was left in a safe state. In respect of the two at risk issues, it has 
shown us a further photo, taken after the boiler  was installed, showing the cap in place. It 
points out that the other issue  it confirmed  with the manufacturers. So it doesnt  believe it 
should pay any more  rent.
Mr H has reiterated that the gas hob was dangerous and so not suitable for a tenant  to move 
in. He also says that the rattling noise  in the boiler  was such  a nuisance it would have 
prevented any tenant being able to take up possession.  He further says that Zurich has 
without evidence accused him of tampering  with the boiler.
I dont know why the cap on the boiler seemed to be in place after the work  but not when the 
Gas Safe engineer  noted it. I think it unlikely however  that anybody  tampering  with it would 
have known this would  result in at at risk finding. Im inclined therefore to give Mr H the 
benefit of the doubt. And still award the further  rent, for the reasons Ive set out above.   
Mr H doesnt agree with my formula for calculating the loss of rent. I think it is a reasonable 
way of calculating  it, although I should point out that it makes very little difference.
He has further  pointed out that Zurich has paid the council tax up until March  2019 so this 
should be taken  as admission that it should pay loss of rent to that date. Its up to Zurich how 
long it paid the council tax for but I dont think that should be taken  as an admission that it 
owes rent for that period.
In my provisional findings I said:
Ref: DRN46429514noise  in the system
Mr H advises that the central  heating system  was noisy. The contractors told him the system 
couldnt be flushed as it was a closed system. Later  in response  to our investigators queries  
they said there had probably been  some  solder  in the system.  They  maintained that they 
would have been prepared to cut out and replace part of the pipework, but Mr H had already 
told them  not to come back.
I cant see that the offer was made or that the likely  cause  of solder  in the system  - was 
mentioned to Mr H at the time. I note that Mr H later had a plumber come and fix the issue 
by repairing  the pipe work and flushing  the system.  
Since the contractors  returned to the property to fix the safety  issues  with the boiler I cant 
see why they didnt offer to fix the fault then. It seems to me that this was an issue  with the 
newly installed system  which Zurich  should have repaired. I think  it should pay Mr Hs costs 
of this - £500. It should also add interest at 8% on the payment.
From the point of view of a prospective tenant I think this didnt make the property 
uninhabitable, so I wont require Zurich to pay further rent.
Zurich has agreed to pay this, subject  to the production of the plumbers invoice. I believe 
this has already been passed to Zurich  but I will get a further copy  sent to it. Mr H will have  
to show Zurich evidence  of when he paid it.
Mr H says the noise  from the pipes was such a nuisance that any prospective tenant  would 
have been put off taking  up a tenancy.  
I appreciate that as part of letting out the property Mr H had to resolve  it. Buy Im not inclined 
to find that this made the property uninhabitable. I think  a distinction has to be drawn  
between issues that were unsafe  and needed resolving by Zurich  and issues  that might have 
made the property  less attractive to let out. On a change of tenancy,  especially after such a 
long gap, it would usually be expected that the property would have to be cleaned and any 
repair issues dealt with. Mr Hs remedy was to get a contractor in to fix it, which  he did. And 
Zurich is to pay the invoice, so Mr H hasnt lost out.
In my provisional findings I said:
toilet
Mr H said the toilet was damaged. The contractors agreed to replace it. Mr H then said the 
toilet had an issue with being blocked.  The contractors said it was fine when they completed 
the work,  although  they did later comment that the toilet was installed to the wrong size 
pipework. Mr H had the problem fixed  for £120. The plumber  found the toilet  to have  been  
wrongly installed.
I think that whether  or not Zurich accepted any liability, it agreed  to replace the toilet  and 
thus had to do an effective repair. If the wrong pipework was in place it should  have  replaced  
it. I think it should pay Mr Hs costs of £120. It should also add interest  at 8% on the 
payment.
Again from the point  of view of a prospective tenant  I dont think  this made the property  
uninhabitable so I wont require Zurich to pay further  rent. 
Ref: DRN46429515Zurich does not feel that replacing the toilet makes it responsible for the original  pipework,  as 
this was clearly a pre-existing issue.
Mr H believes  that the failure to repair the toilet made the property uninhabitable.
I think that having accepted the repair, it was for Zurich to ensure the toilet was fully 
functional. Whilst  this was a goodwill  gesture, it cant then do a poor job and stop at just 
replacing the toilet leaving it not fully functional.
I dont think the toilet  made the property uninhabitable. I refer to my comments  above about 
what in my view makes  a property uninhabitable. 
In my provisional findings I said:
shower
The contractors admitted damaging the shower  rail and shower head and replaced  those.  
Mr H said the shower  unit itself was damaged. He has provided  us with a video showing 
water leaking  from the unit. Hes also shown us a report from a plumber who fixed  the unit 
and said it was cracked underneath. His view was that the damage was done  at the same 
time as that to the shower  head  and rail. But I think thats just supposition.  Unfortunately  
without any evidence of the condition of the shower unit before the claim I cant  say that 
Zurich is responsible for replacing this.
Mr H reiterates his view that the shower was damaged by the contractors, and says that his 
sons inspected the property a few weeks before the claim not noting  any issues.  And hes 
shown us a property inspection report from February 2018, which doesnt show  any issues  
with the shower.
I note Mr Hs evidence, but I cant say whether the shower was specifically inspected  before 
the claim.  Im not persuaded to alter my provisional finding. 
In my provisional findings I said:
rear door
Mr H says the outside door to the lounge  isnt closing property and shows signs  of water 
damage. The schedule  of work said that the door should be eased, adjusted  and rehung.  
The loss adjusters have since commented  that steps were taken to remedy  this as outlined 
in the schedule. However, based  on conversations held with the contractors,  they felt the 
damage was a result of wear and tear and not a consideration under the policy.  The problem 
here is whatever  Zurich  thinks  its liability is, it agreed to rehang and adjust the door.  But that 
clearly didnt remedy the problem. Once Zurich had agreed to do this the repair  to the door 
became part of the claim and needed  to be done  properly even to the extent of replacing the 
door if necessary.  Zurich  should pay Mr Hs costs of this, if he has had it repaired. He should 
advise me of this in response to this provisional  decision. If he hasnt had it repaired he 
should provide  an estimate of the cost of repair.
Zurich says it agreed to rehang and adjust the door but says it isnt responsible for historical 
wear and tear.
Ref: DRN46429516Mr H believes  the door was affected  by the flood  as were internal  doors.  He has shown us 
an estimate for a new door and frame  in the sum of £1,235.78.
I think again having accepted liability for the door,  Zurich is obliged  to repair it. But it hasnt 
had the opportunity to see whether the door can be a repaired or replaced as per Mr Hs 
estimate. I will require that it reconsider this issue.
In my provisional findings I said:
plastering 
Mr H says that the walls  originally had lining paper. But it was agreed  that they would have a 
skim coat of plaster. But the loss adjuster then said this wasnt  necessary. He has shown  us 
a report from a decorator criticising the standards of work here and the kitchen installation.  I 
cant see that that has ever been  shown to Zurich,  so it hasnt  had an opportunity  to 
comment on it. Its difficult to say what  the standard of the walls was like before the claim. It 
appears that it was agreed that repapering or plastering  was unnecessary  and from the 
evidence I cant say whether that is right. If Mr H wants to share his decorators report with 
Zurich it can be given  an opportunity to comment on it. On present evidence  I cant say that 
Zurich should  take any more action. 
Mr H has restated the content of the report and invited  us to share that with Zurich. I think if 
Mr H wants to progress this issue further its up to him to show his decorators  report to 
Zurich. Im not in a position to make  a judgment on it without Zurich being able to get a 
contractors opinion on it.
In my provisional findings I said:
garden debris/maintenance
Mr H says the contractors left debris  over the garden and failed to sweep it up. and left some 
in the bins which the council wouldnt take away. The garden was also overgrown. Zurich 
said it wasnt given an opportunity to clear  away  the debris from the bins.  I appreciate that 
Mr H has sent us photos of debris  in the garden but they are photos as the matter 
progressed. If debris  was left in the bins and the council wouldnt take it away  then he should 
have advised  Zurich at the time and it could have made arrangements.  Usually the insurer 
isnt liable for maintaining the garden during the repairs,  thats something the policyholder 
should arrange. I dont propose  to make any award  in this respect.
As I understand it Mr H believes that the contractors  should have arranged  this themselves, 
without being  told to. He mentions an old sofa which  was taken away  after many requests, 
but I note that it was taken away before the contractors left the site. Im not persuaded that 
Zurich was given  the opportunity to take any further  action after its contractors had left the 
site. Im not persuaded to change my view on this issue.
In my provisional findings I said:
rear light 
Mr H says the rear light is faulty  and damaged  by the water, but Zurich  has failed to do 
anything about  it. Zurich says the light isnt on the same system as the part of the electrics 
Ref: DRN46429517that were damaged, and its not part of the claim. Unfortunately  whilst I dont doubt the light 
is faulty I havent seen any persuasive  evidence that this is part of the claim.
Mr H restates  that the electrics were part of the claim. But Im not inclined to change my view 
on this, as theres no new evidence that it was part of the claim.
In my provisional findings I said:
compensation
Zurich has paid compensation of £200  in respect  of the initial  delays. It offered £500 
compensation for the issues after June 2018, which Mr H refused. Ive carefully  considered 
Mr Hs position. I appreciate that he spent a lot of time dealing with the claim.  Although  as 
Ive said as letting  the property is part of his business he might be expected  to be quite 
proactive. I recognise there were failures and some later delays,  although I cant  see that 
theres any persuasive evidence that Mr H contributed to those delays. As Ive said I wont  
itemise every issue where they were resolved, although I can confirm  Ive taken them into 
account.
But overall, this large escape of water was effectively  finished within  nine months and Mr H 
didnt suffer the inconvenience of having to live there while the repairs were going  on. I 
appreciate that he had to suffer the stress of dealing with the claim but I can only award 
compensation where I think Zurich added to that stress.  Having taken into account awards  
we have made in similar  cases  I think a total compensation payment of £700 (£500 still to be 
paid) is fair and reasonable. If Mr H wants to accept that offer he should contact Zurich 
directly.
Mr H rejects the offer of £500 as he has lost a lot more in time and there were other effects 
on him as a result of this matter. 
I believe Ive set out a clearly why I think £500  is an appropriate payment, and dont  intend  to 
change my view in that respect. Its up to Mr H if he wants to accept it or not.
On a final point,  Mr H has issues with his renewal premium which  hes just received. He 
must take that up with Zurich, as I cant  deal with it as part of this complaint.
My provisional findings, as set out above are now final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Zurich Insurance PLC to:
pay Mr Hs loss of rent for the rest of December and to pay four days loss of rent for 
January 2019  calculated,  as set out above,  at a proportion  of the monthly  rent for 
January.
pay the following  payments:
flushing and repairing  the heating £500
toilet £120.
Ref: DRN46429518for all the above payments add simple  interest* of 8% per year from the date Mr H paid 
the respective  invoices,  where  such invoices are produced, or would have been paid 
rent, until settlement  is made.
consider payment of Mr Hs estimate of the cost of replacing, or whether it can repair, the 
rear door
*Zurich Insurance  PLC is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct  tax from any 
interest paid. Should Mr H request it, Zurich Insurance PLC should provide him with a 
certificate showing how much tax has been  taken off so that, if appropriate, he can reclaim it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4642951