K822xcomplaint
Through their solicitors, (called  here S&Co), Mr and Mrs D have complained about 
unnecessary delay and lack of transparency by Svenska Handelsbanken AB (Publ) (referred 
to here as SHB) when dealing with an application  for a further advance on their mortgage. 
By way of settlement, Mr and Mrs D want SHB to do the following:
turn back  the clock  so that the further advance is now organised  with drawdown of 
monies as soon as possible;
confirm that it treated  Mr and Mrs D unfairly;
pay compensation that correlates to the huge  amount  of stress, anxiety and financial 
hardship endured  by the family.
background 
Because our decisions are published, I will keep the background  to the complaint  very 
simple, in order to avoid identifying Mr and Mrs D. I confirm Ive read everything  provided by 
them, S&Co  and SHB and I note the background to this matter is known to all parties. So to 
preserve Mr and Mrs Ds anonymity, I will not repeat the details of the events giving rise to 
the complaint,  but I confirm I have taken  them into consideration.
Briefly, Mr and Mrs D had a mortgage with SHB which  they took out in November 2015. 
They borrowed £300,000  to purchase  a bungalow  which they were intending to refurbish. 
The plans show Mr and Mrs D intended to knock  down some parts of the property, add 
extensions to the existing bungalow and build a second storey. The mortgage was over a 
term of 15 years, with the first 12 months  being on an interest-only basis,  thereafter reverting 
to capital and interest  repayment for the remainder of the term. 
The money was to be advanced  in two parts  initially £285,000  and a further £15,000  upon  
confirmation that building works had been commenced, within the first 9 months of 
drawdown of the initial  advance.
Mr and Mrs D began  building work. SHB says that it was told by Mr D in early 2017 that 
planning permission  hadnt been granted in relation to the planned development of the 
property and that an alternative would be to demolish it and build a new house on site. On 
the other hand,  Mr and Mrs D say that SHB knew of their plans to demolish the house  all 
along. I will address  this point later in the decision. But it was a fait accompli  by October 
2017 when SHBs surveyor visited the site and noted that a significant part of the property 
had been demolished.
There was a meeting  between  Mr D and SHB in November 2017 when this was discussed, 
along with the need to complete the building work and the funds that would be needed to do 
this.
In December 2017 Mr D emailed his contact at SHB and explained that he wanted to 
proceed with a further advance of £130,000, on an interest-only basis, on a three-year 
tracker (with  offset as a feature) to correspond  with the main mortgage end date of 
February 2031.
I will not list each and every interaction of the timeline of events. But suffice it to say that the 
offer to lend was not issued until 23 May 2018.  The offer was valid until 23 June 2018. I 
understand it was not accepted by that date and has now lapsed.
Ref: DRN49010292On 5 June 2018 Mr D left his employment.  A complaint was made to SHB that it had 
deliberately delayed issuing the mortgage offer in order to cause financial hardship to 
Mr and Mrs D. Nonetheless, SHB did not withdraw  the offer, which  remained open for 
acceptance until 23 June  2018.
SHB didnt uphold  the complaint, so it was brought to us. An investigator looked at it. He 
noted that in November 2017 Mr D had explained to SHB that he and Mrs D wanted  to move 
into the property  by March/April 2018.  Given this, he thought  SHB was aware of the 
timescale and could have moved matters along  more quickly.  The investigator asked SHB to 
pay compensation of £500, which it agreed to do. But he didnt uphold any other part of the 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs D didnt accept this. They have  highlighted that a member of staff confirmed to 
Mr D on 28 February  2018 that funds  would be released next  week  and that the offer letter  
would be ready  and available for acceptance  on Friday 2 March 2018, for drawdown  of funds 
on Monday 5 March  2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I stated above, I have not mentioned  
matters which would  in my opinion compromise Mr and Mrs Ds anonymity. And, in line with 
my remit, I have  concentrated  on the issues which I consider to be material  to the complaint.
There are some residential mortgages  which offer a reserve  facility  that is, a pre-approved 
amount which  customers can draw down at any time. They  are increasingly rare, due to 
regulatory obligations which require lenders to assess  affordability  before advancing funds.  
But the benefit to customers is that if they have a reserve facility on their mortgage account, 
they do not need to make  a formal  application  for a further advance;  all they need  to do is 
ask for the funds  to be made available.
The mortgage Mr and Mrs D have does  not include any reserve facility. Consequently, any 
request for further borrowing must, therefore,  be subject to a formal application and 
underwriting. So I think Mr D might have misunderstood the position in December 2017  
because, from his email  of 27 December 2018,  he appears to be under the impression that 
he only needed to ask for an additional £130,000 and it would be made available  imminently.
But any request  for a further advance would  need to satisfy  SHBs lending  criteria. In this 
respect, the demolition  of the property  is a material factor which I am satisfied directly led to 
the delay in issuing the mortgage offer. Thats because it affected  the type of loan SHB was 
able to grant to Mr and Mrs D.
SHB says it wasnt aware until October 2017  that the property had been demolished, in 
breach of the mortgage contract. Mr and Mrs D say that SHB had been aware of their 
intention to do this from the outset.  
I find, on balance,  that SHB was not aware  of Mr and Mrs Ds intention to demolish the 
property in its entirety. My reasons for concluding this are as follows:
There are six applications for planning  permission  shown  online from 13 May 2016 to 
18 January 2017 which refer to extending the property  upwards and outwards  in various 
Ref: DRN49010293ways. It was not until 19 April 2017 that an application was made to demolish the 
property and build a replacement dwelling. This is persuasive evidence that 
Mr and Mrs Ds original plans were not to demolish  the property completely but to extend 
and rebuild it. I understand  they had valid reasons for deciding  to knock down the 
property in 2017, but Im satisfied that it was not something which SHB was aware of, as 
Mr and Mrs D suggest, from the time they made the application in 2015.
Indeed, S&Co  have acknowledged  this in their letter to us of 6 February 2019. They say 
that in 2015 an application was made to  [SHB] for finance in connection with the works 
to be carried out to the property which included substantial demolishment  (sic) and 
remodelling  2016 Applications  for planning  permission were  then made  but due 
to opposition from local residents and the [Councils]  this took considerable time to go 
through 2017 [Mr and Mrs D] received advice that bearing  in mind the costs  of the 
renovation works (including demolition  and rebuild) it would be just as cost effective  to 
demolish the whole of the property and effectively  start again
More importantly, SHB could not have  offered a residential mortgage loan in 2015  for the 
demolition and rebuild of a new property. Thats because that type of project  as 
opposed to refurbishment  and extension  of an existing property  is considered  
residential development and so does not fall within  the scope of residential mortgage 
lending. And crucially, SHB does  not offer residential development loans (RDLs) to 
customers of Mr and Mrs Ds specific status.
In the circumstances, the evidence is persuasive  that the demolition of the building  in 
2017 was a change of plan and in breach of the residential mortgage  conditions and 
contrary to the lending decision made  by SHB in 2015 to advance funds for the purchase 
and renovation of the existing property.
Once SHB was aware that the original property had been demolished,  it was left between a 
rock and a hard place. It was in the best interests of all parties to get the development 
finished, so that SHB had security for the loan which had some  value and so that 
Mr and Mrs D could move into it. But the type of finance  needed to complete the build was a 
RDL, for which Mr and Mrs D did not qualify.
As a result, there was a considerable amount of internal discussion about the best way to 
shoe-horn the finance into a bespoke  product  which would allow Mr and Mrs D to complete 
the build  and yet not fall foul of SHBs regulatory  compliance obligations. This took several 
weeks, and led to the delay about which Mr and Mrs D are unhappy.
Ive noted the email  to which S&Co refer dated  28 February 2018, which suggests the funds 
would be made  available in early March  2018. But Im satisfied that the staff member who 
wrote that email was not a bespoke lending  specialist.  She would have been unaware  of the 
regulatory difficulties  that arose when SHB had to consider how to arrange finance  to 
complete the build,  when a further  advance on the residential mortgage was no longer 
feasible due to the demolition of the secured property.
The offer was issued on 23 May 2018. By early June 2018  Mr D had left his employment. 
Mr and Mrs Ds position is that SHB delayed matters because  it deliberately  wanted  to cause 
Mr and Mrs D financial hardship, knowing Mr Ds employment situation  was about to change.  
But Im satisfied that the delay is entirely  as a result of SHB needing to fit Mr and Mrs Ds 
borrowing needs into a bespoke product, whilst  at the same time remaining compliant  with 
lending regulations and its own policies. 
Ref: DRN49010294There is nothing in the mortgage  documentation  which leads me to conclude that anyone at 
SHB who was dealing  with the mortgage application was aware that Mr Ds situation  was 
about to change. And it defies logic, given  SHB was trying to arrange finance for the RDL in 
order to preserve its own security, that it would delay this unnecessarily out of spite.
But I agree  that SHB was told in November 2017 that Mr and Mrs D needed to move out of 
their rented accommodation by the end of March 2018. So I think  SHB was on notice of the 
timescale involved and might have progressed matters more quickly,  once  it became  aware 
of the type of loan it needed to arrange.  In the circumstances, Im satisfied that a payment of 
£500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the delay is proportionate, fair and 
reasonable. I am glad to note SHB has agreed  to pay this.
The loan offer lapsed on 23 June  2018.  I can find no basis upon  which  I can fairly order SHB 
to reinstate or backdate  it, given that Mr Ds circumstances  have changed since the offer 
was issued. It is at SHBs discretion whether it is willing to reinstate the offer,  or whether it 
requires a fresh application to be made so that it can reassess this against its affordability 
and lending  criteria in the light of Mr and Mrs Ds current situation. Thats a matter  for SHB to 
determine.
my final decision
My decision  is that, in full and final settlement  of this complaint, Svenska Handelsbanken  AB 
(Publ) must pay Mr and Mrs D compensation of £500 for trouble and upset caused by delay 
in assessing their loan application. I make no other order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 June 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4901029