K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  that TSB Bank  plc wont refund a payment they made after they 
were victims  of fraud.
Background
In June 2018, Mr and Mrs D were tricked into transferring money to a fraudster. Theyd been 
in contact with a travel agent. They received an email purportedly from the travel  agent 
asking them to transfer £2,273.60 using the account  details  provided.  The email  had been  
sent by a fraudster.  Mr and Mrs D transferred the money on 19 June.
 
They attempted to follow  this up on 30 June  but couldnt contact the agent  using  the details 
that had been provided  in the email. It became apparent that theyd fallen victim to a scam. 
They contacted TSB to tell them what had happened. TSB didnt log on its systems that 
Mr and Mrs D had been a victim of fraud and so no action was taken.  It was only when Mr D 
called TSB a second time (14 July)  that TSB investigated the complaint and contacted  the 
bank to which the funds had been  paid.
TSB said it wouldnt  refund the payment to Mr and Mrs D. It accepted that it shouldve  
contacted the receiving  bank sooner than it did. But it said that, even if it had done so, the 
payment had been moved out of that account before Mr and Mrs D recognised that theyd  
been defrauded. 
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy  with the response  they received  from TSB and so referred the 
complaint to this service.  It was looked at by an investigator who didnt uphold it. The 
investigator said that this specific  transaction wasnt unusual or out of character and so she 
wouldnt have expected TSB to identify it as potentially fraudulent.  She also agreed with TSB 
that, although it ought to have contacted the receiving bank straight away,  it wouldnt have 
made any difference in terms of whether any of the funds couldve been recovered.  
Mr and Mrs D disagreed  with the investigators opinion.  In particular, they said:
When Mr D called  TSB to follow up on 14 Jul, he was told by the call handler that 
TSB accepted  liability for what happened  and that hed receive a full refund.
TSBs  failure to act sooner might make it more  difficult for the fraudster to be 
apprehended and might prevent recovery of funds downstream from the original 
receiving account.
Since this incident, TSB has introduced a fraud guarantee  for all account holders. 
Mr D says that he wouldve been  protected by this had it been in place at the time. 
TSB should therefore refund the payment in the interest of fairness.
Because Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been  
passed to me to come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so, Im required to consider 
Ref: DRN48580712relevant: law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards;  codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Theres no question that Mr and Mrs D have  been  the victim of a cruel and cynical fraud. But 
the question that I have  to consider here is the extent  to which  TSB can be considered  liable 
for their losses.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and
conditions of the customers account.  
But that is not the whole the story:
the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and
regulated firms  like TSB are also required to conduct their business with due
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6).
As a matter  of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken
proactive steps  to:
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice,  which
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of).
That means there are circumstances where a bank should take additional steps, or make 
additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide  whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr 
and Mrs D when they carried  out this transfer  and when Mr D reported that it was fraudulent. 
Ive considered this point  carefully and I agree with the investigator that it hasnt done 
anything wrong  here.
This wasnt an out of character transaction. Earlier the same month, there  were  two 
transactions for larger  sums. These werent  online  banking transfers  all of Mr and Mrs Ds 
online banking transfers were smaller sums   but I still think that on balance it meant that 
this specific payment wouldnt have appeared unusual. It wouldnt have given TSB a 
reasonable basis for suspecting that Mr and Mrs D were being  defrauded or that they were  
at risk of financial harm.
Mr D told TSB that hed been a victim of fraud  on 30 Jun 2018. Unfortunately,  it didnt 
contact the receiving bank  until Mr D chased them up two weeks later.  However, the 
information that Ive seen  from the receiving bank  shows that the funds were removed from 
the account very quickly. By the time Mr D first contacted TSB to let it know about  the fraud, 
Ref: DRN48580713the funds had already been removed  so unfortunately, it wasnt  possible for TSB to retrieve  
anything. 
Mr D has argued  that the delays could have harmed the chances of apprehending the 
fraudster. And if the fraudster was tracked  down, that might allow for the recovery  of the 
funds another  way (albeit not from the original account into which  the payment was made).  
This isnt necessarily an unreasonable hypothesis, but unfortunately, its just speculation 
about what the potential consequences couldve  been. Evidence showing that the delay on 
the part of TSB caused difficulties like this would need to be very clear and persuasive. And 
Im afraid Ive not seen any evidence that TSBs  error adversely affected any police 
investigation.
Mr D says that he was told in the phone call that took place on 14 Jul that TSB had accepted 
liability for what took place and would  pay him a full refund. Regrettably,  there  is no 
recording of this call  only the notes that were taken by the TSB employee. Id expect these 
to broadly correspond  with what  was said during that conversation, but Mr Ds recollections  
of what was said are different. I dont doubt  or disbelieve what hes told us, but Ive not seen 
enough evidence  to persuade me that TSB promised him hed get his money back.
Finally, Mr D has said that he thinks  its unfair  that TSB introduced its fraud guarantee in 
2019. If this had been in place at the time he was a victim of fraud,  he says TSB would likely  
have refunded this payment. But I can only apply the standards  that were  effective  at the 
date of the payment. Ive set these  out above.  TSB has since  voluntarily adopted  a different 
standard  it has the commercial freedom to do that if it chooses. But for me to say its 
obliged to refund Mr and Mrs Ds payments, Id need  to be persuaded that TSB shouldve  
done something to prevent the payment or that its delays  meant  it wasnt able to recover 
money from the receiving  bank.
I do feel considerable sympathy  for what Mr and Mrs D have  been  through here. But 
unfortunately, whilst  Im sorry to have  to disappoint  them, Im not persuaded that this was a 
consequence of any specific  failing on the part of TSB.
Final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 August 2020.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4858071