K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mrs M bought the policy over the phone in 2003,  sometime after she took out a credit  card.
Barclays didnt think the PPI was mis-sold but did offer to refund some of the commission  
that Mrs M paid as part of her premium. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I wasnt  planning  to uphold the complaint. 
Barclays had nothing  further to add. 
Mrs M replied to ask that I take into account the following when making my final decision:
1.PPI was not taken  out when the card was applied  for.
2.At the time PPI was added to her card she was financially stable,  had high savings and 
the balance on her card was cleared  every  month.
3.Barclays cannot  provide evidence  that the call where the PPI was supposedly sold to her 
was conducted  correctly or that the information provided was clear and accurate
4.Barclays cannot  provide evidence  that she agreed to add PPI to her credit  card.
5.Once she was made aware what the added insurance was and what it meant she 
contacted Barclays  and cancelled it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
      Given what we know about how Barclays conducted phone sales  at the time, I think its 
likely that Mrs M was aware  that she had a choice  about buying  the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. I appreciate that she doesnt remember agreeing to take the PPI and 
that the information available  is limited. But the sale was over 15 years ago, and I think  
its more likely  that she agreed to it and has since forgotten,  than that Barclays  added it 
to her account without her consent  or knowledge.
      Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs M and it seems to have been  right for her 
based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time.
Its possible  the information Barclays gave Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Mrs M doesnt  appear  to have been  affected by any of the main 
Ref: DRN49655622things the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. Although she had some savings, I dont 
think these wouldve been enough  for her to have thought the policy  wasnt worthwhile. 
So I dont  think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Mrs M said that by 2003 she was in a much better financial position than when she took 
out the credit card and had the support of her partner as well as some  savings.  But 
these points dont change  my conclusion. The help of her partner wouldnt be 
guaranteed  in the sense that his circumstances could  change so he wouldnt 
necessarily be able to help even if he wanted  to. And Ive found that she most likely 
agreed to the PPI, which suggests that at the time she felt this sort of cover  wouldve 
been useful.
This means  Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Barclays  has offered  to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because  Barclays didnt tell Mrs M, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive taken into account Mrs Ms comments, including what shes said in response to my 
provisional decision. But these points dont  change my decision. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs M any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. It should  do this now Ive issued 
my final decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4965562