K821x#15complaint
Mr G is unhappy about the way Kindertons  Ltd have handled his claim after a road traffic 
accident.
background
In February 2019,  Mr G was involved in a road traffic accident that wasnt  his fault. He didnt 
make a claim against his motor insurance policy. He used the services  of Kindertons, an 
accident management company (AMC).
Kindertons arranged for Mr G to have a hire car while his car was being repaired.  But on its 
return Mr K wasnt happy that his wing mirror  hadnt  been repaired, and there was a droning  
sound which hadnt been there before the accident. 
In March 2019 Mr G complained to Kindertons. He also said he didnt feel safe driving his 
car. He said he was told not to use the car and agreed with them that they would  reimburse 
him for any travel costs he incurred.
In May 2019, Mr G referred his complaint to us as he said he had to keep chasing  
Kindertons for updates  about the repairs to his car. And he was having  to use taxis to get 
around as he didnt think his vehicle was safe. Mr G said hed acquired his car through  a 
lease agreement, and this was to end as he was leaving  the country in mid- June  2019.  
Kindertons apologised  that the repairs hadnt  been done. And arranged for Mr G to have a 
hire car while the repairs were carried out. They also agreed to reimburse  Mr G for his taxi 
costs. And paid the additional costs he had from his lease  agreement.
Our investigator said Mr G had been  caused trouble and upset by the delay in getting his car 
repaired. And in having to chase Kindertons for updates about his repairs  and 
reimbursement for his taxi costs. She also said as Mr Gs lease agreement was ending, he 
had the added worry of continuing costs while waiting for the car to be returned. She said 
Kindertons should  pay £250 for the trouble and upset caused.
Kindertons didnt agree  as they said Mr G had only complained about the repairs  and the 
taxi costs, which they had already agreed to do. They asked for an ombudsman  to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr G first complained to Kindertons in March 2019. I can see from Kindertons notes that he 
expressed his dissatisfaction with the repairs that had been  done. And I can see that later 
the same  month he said he wasnt happy with the way his claim was being  handled  as he 
wasnt being kept updated about  what was happening. He asked for another claim handler to 
look after his claim. And Mr G on several occasions  complained about this while  his claim 
was being dealt with.
So, Im satisfied that Mr G had complained about  the service he had received from 
Kindertons. And that Kindertons had time to look into this aspect of his complaint.
Ref: DRN47642382Mr Gs accident happened in February  2019,  and I can see that Kindertons  had been  
proactive in updating Mr G about the arrangement of his hire car and the repair of his 
damaged vehicle. But I can see that after Mr Gs vehicle was returned to him in March  2019, 
and the hire car returned, he was unhappy with the repairs  done to his car and asked 
Kindertons to deal with it.
Kindertons, as an AMC, aim to provide their customers with a hire vehicle, if needed, and 
repair the damage caused to the vehicle by the accident. They would claim these  costs  back  
from the third-party insurer (TPI). As part of the claims  process  Kindertons  has a duty to 
mitigate costs as the TPI can refuse  to pay.
I can understand Kindertons needed  to determine  whether  the droning sound  was a result  
of the accident.  And Kindertons had only arranged for Mr Gs car to be repaired at a garage 
that dealt with bodyshop repairs,  not mechanical  issues. So, they arranged for the wing 
mirror to be repaired. But told Mr G he had to get the diagnostic test done.  And that they 
couldnt arrange for a hire car until it was determined the damage was accident  related.
I can see this caused Mr G some concern, not only that he didnt have use of his car, he also 
had the financial  cost of using taxis.  And he was due to leave the country for several months  
in mid-June 2019. I can see from Kindertons case notes the number of times  Mr G called for 
an update about the repair  to his car. And the uncertainty as to whether his financial costs 
would be covered.
It wasnt until early  June  2019, after it was accepted that the damage was accident related, 
that the repairs, and a hire vehicle was arranged. So, from March 2019 until June 2019, 
Mr G was in the worrying  position of not knowing whether his car would be repaired. And 
whether his financial costs would be paid before  he left the country.
I am pleased  to see that the repairs have now been done. And that Kindertons arranged  
payment to cover Mr Gs financial loss. But Id have expected Kindertons  to have kept Mr G 
updated about what was happening  during  what was a very worrying time for him. And I 
dont think this always happened. I can see that Mr G called in several times, he explained 
his situation and that he needed a call back or an email. He said he felt he was being  left 
with an unsafe  vehicle and not getting any assistance. He asked several times for another  
claim handler to be assigned to his claim.  And I can see that at times this happened when 
his claim handler wasnt available. When this was the case Mr G did get the information and 
update he asked for.
Kindertons have apologised, and the repairs have been done, and Mr Gs taxi and lease 
agreement costs have  been paid. But as I have outlined, I think Mr G has been caused 
trouble and upset  by the service he got from Kindertons. Not only did he have the 
uncertainty about what was happening with his car, but he also had the worry that it wouldnt 
be sorted before he left the country.  I think Kindertons could have done  more to alleviate 
some of Mr Gs concerns.
 
So, I think Kindertons should  pay Mr G £250 for the trouble and upset this caused.
Ref: DRN47642383my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  And ask Kindertons Ltd to pay £250 to Mr G for trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4764238