K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about the advice he received from Humphries IFA Ltd (Humphries) in 
relation to his occupational pension arrangements.
background
During the complaint process  Mr A has raised  a significant number of issues and complaint 
points in relation  to his pension arrangements. I want to reassure Mr A that I have carefully 
read everything that he has sent us. But, the work of this service is intended to provide  a 
quick and informal dispute resolution  process and so I hope  he will understand why this 
decision is somewhat  shorter  than the total of the information he has provided  to us.
In addition many of the matters that Mr A has raised  are not directly  relevant to the complaint 
he has brought against Humphries. So I need  to be clear at the outset about the matters that 
I consider form part of this decision,  and just as importantly those that dont.
Mr A received advice  from Humphries  in relation to his pension arrangements  in 2015.  It is 
the content and suitability  of that advice that I will consider  in this decision. That means that 
I wont be considering  what happened  in 2013 when Mr A first joined the occupational  
pension scheme  provided by his employer (although I will provide some  more reasoning for 
that later in this decision), or the matters  that Mr A has already been  told should be 
considered by the Information Commissioner,  the Pensions Regulator, or the Pensions 
Ombudsman.
In 2015 Mr A was working as a contract worker under an umbrella company. That company 
offered those contract workers the opportunity to join a SIPP scheme. Contributions  to that 
scheme could be paid out of the workers gross salary so making tax and national insurance  
savings. Mr A received  advice from Humphries before joining the pension  scheme. Mr A has 
subsequently left that scheme and transferred his pension benefits to another provider.
Mr As complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He explained to Mr A why 
this service was unable, or unsuitable,  to consider some of the matters  he was complaining  
about. But he did look at the advice Mr A had been  given by Humphries  in 2015. He thought 
that, considering  the significant  savings  Mr A would make in tax and national insurance,  the 
advice hed been given was suitable.  So he didnt think Mr As complaint should be upheld.
Mr A didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Ref: DRN48001262In deciding this complaint  I have taken account  of the submissions that have been made by 
Mr A and by Humphries, along with the information  provided by the other parties  involved in 
this matter. Where the evidence is unclear,  or there are conflicts, I have made my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what evidence  we do 
have, and the surrounding circumstances,  to help me decide what  I think is more likely to 
have happened, or what should  have happened. 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
I will first deal with the issues that have  arisen  from Mr A joining his employers occupational 
scheme in 2013.  I havent seen anything that makes me think  there  was any involvement 
between Mr A and Humphries before Mr A decided to join the occupational scheme. So 
I dont consider that this matter should  form any part of my deliberations on this complaint.
But I understand why Mr A has raised this matter  as part of his complaint. When  he joined 
the occupational scheme  Mr A was told by the scheme provider that commission  would be 
paid to his advisor Humphries IFA. So given he hadnt received any advice it was 
understandable he might question why commission was being  paid.
The pension scheme that Mr A joined  in 2013 had been designed on behalf  of his employer 
by Humphries. And as part of that design  it had been agreed  that Humphries would receive 
commission on the funds  that were  invested. I think that the wording used by the scheme 
provider was relatively generic and didnt correctly reflect the true nature of the commission  
arrangement. I am satisfied that there wasnt a direct relationship between Humphries and 
Mr A at that time. But in any case I can see that shortly afterwards Mr A cancelled his 
membership of the scheme  and the funds  he had invested were returned by the scheme  
provider. And at the same time any commission  that had been paid to Humphries in relation 
to Mr As investment was also returned.  So even if I thought  Humphries had been  paid an 
unfair sum of commission Mr A didnt lose out as a result.
Mr A started to work for the umbrella company again in 2015. At that time the pension 
arrangements it offered  had changed.  I have  noted  that at first Mr A was incorrectly added 
back into the previous  pension  scheme but since that scheme had been closed to new 
joiners some time before,  his contributions  were  refunded and paid into the new scheme  with 
no loss to Mr A.
The new scheme  that was offered by the umbrella company had been introduced before that 
company was required to provide auto-enrolment under the new pensions  legislation. At that 
time the company wasnt required to provide a pension scheme. But the scheme  it did offer 
was in the form of a SIPP arranged through a provider I will call C.
The scheme that C offered required those joining the scheme  to receive advice  from 
Humphries. It doesnt seem to me that Mr A was required to join the scheme  that his 
employer offered through C. But doing so would provide him with some financial  benefits 
since his contributions could be paid from his gross income and so he would make savings 
on income tax and national insurance contributions. In line with the requirement to receive 
advice from Humphries Mr A engaged  that company in early 2015.
Ref: DRN48001263I have seen the letter of advice that Humphries provided to Mr A. That letter  is explicit  that it 
is only providing Mr A with advice on joining the pension  scheme  provided by his employer. 
It noted that Mr A had chosen not to disclose information about the rest of his finances and it 
went on to say that had he done so the recommendation Humphries provided might  have 
been different.  Mr A accepted  that restriction and agreed to proceed  with the advice process.
It seems  to me that the advice Mr A received, within the relatively narrow  bounds noted 
above, was suitable. Although there might have been other  cheaper  options for him to make 
his pension savings,  the costs of the scheme  provided by C were  easily  outweighed by the 
savings Mr A would  make  in tax and national insurance contributions.  The national  insurance 
savings were only available to him by investing  his pension savings in this scheme.
The scheme offered  by C provided investors  with access to three different investment 
platforms. Humphries  recommended  one of the platforms to Mr A. I havent seen anything to 
make me think that recommendation  was unsuitable. Whilst, with the benefit of hindsight, 
other investment strategies might  have achieved different levels  of return, I think the platform  
and investment approach Humphries recommended was in accordance  with Mr As attitude 
to risk and investment objectives at the time.
The last area that I wish to consider here is that the benefits to Mr A of joining this scheme 
were reliant to some degree on the savings he would  make in his national insurance 
contributions. But the advice  Mr A was given by Humphries reflected that his arrangements 
should be reviewed  if his employment  changed, or if the pension arrangements being offered 
by his employer  were updated to reflect changes in pension legislation.
So overall I think that the advice Humphries provided to Mr A in 2015 was suitable.  And Ive 
not seen anything that makes me think Humphries  had any engagement with Mr A, or did 
anything wrong, in respect of what happened  when Mr A joined the earlier  scheme in 2013.  
So it follows  that I dont  think this complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Humphries IFA Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4800126