K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them  payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage in 1998 and they also took out PPI for Mr B to protect the 
mortgage monthly repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our 
adjudicator. Mr and Mrs Bs main complaint is that they werent aware  they had PPI  and 
they told us it wasnt  something they took out. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Although the PPI was just in Mr Bs name,  as Mr and Mrs B took out the mortgage in joint 
names Ive looked  at both their circumstances when  the policy was taken out.  
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Heres why I say this.
Halifax hasnt been able to provide any documents to show how the PPI was taken out. But 
that isnt surprising given how long ago this sale happened.  Mr and Mrs B told us they took 
out the PPI during a meeting at a Halifax branch, so I think  its likely thats  what happened.  
Ive taken into account everything Mr and Mrs B have told us. But what  Mr and Mrs B say 
isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint.  It wouldnt  be reasonable 
to expect Mr and Mrs B to recall exactly what was discussed at the time. I have to look at 
everything and decide,  on balance, what I think is most  likely.   
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr and Mrs Bs home wouldve been  at risk if the mortgage  payments werent  kept up to 
date. PPI provided dependable cover and significantly better protection than they had 
otherwise. So, I can see why Mr and Mrs B mightve felt PPI was useful to have. 
And it looks like Mr and Mrs B were aware  that they had already taken out PPI with their 
mortgage by the time they applied  for some  extra  borrowing the following year.  I say this 
because they mentioned  this on the application they filled in to borrow more money  and 
said they didnt  want any extra  PPI to cover the additional borrowing. 
I can completely understand why they mightve  forgotten some of the details from the sale 
after so long. On balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs B decided  they wanted  to have 
the benefits and security  that PPI offered and they chose to buy the policy to protect their 
mortgage monthly repayments. 
Ref: DRN47982612As Mr and Mrs B say they took out the policy during a meeting, Halifax  looked  at their 
complaint on the basis that it wouldve advised them to take out PPI. Given  the lack of 
paperwork showing how Halifax sold Mr and Mrs B the PPI, I think  this is the fairest  way to 
assess this complaint as it imposes extra obligations  on the lender. If a business makes  a 
recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy  information  in a clear  
way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable . 
Mr B was eligible for PPI. The policy protected Mr B for up to 12 months  per claim in the 
event he lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. And the policy  wouldve also 
covered the mortgage repayments  if he had an accident  or was too sick or disabled to work. 
Mr B couldve relied on getting  3 months  full sick pay followed by 3 months half pay from his 
employer. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and in full for up to 
12 months per disability claim. And Mr B couldve made repeated  claims on the policy. So 
PPI provided long term cover whilst Mr and Mrs B had to pay their mortgage.   
Being entitled to redundancy  benefits wouldnt have helped Mr B if he was off work  sick. And 
PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to any redundancy money he mightve got if hed lost his 
job, giving  some additional financial security in those  circumstances.
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs B had some savings and money invested in shares. 
But there was no guarantee when Mr and Mrs B took out this mortgage that they would 
always have savings to rely on. Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs B could also keep any 
investments secure  in the long term as they wouldnt have been forced to use this money to 
pay the mortgage. 
Mrs B was working as well. But relying  on Mrs Bs pay to cover the mortgage isnt as 
dependable as taking out PPI as everyones  circumstances can change unexpectedly.  The 
mortgage was taken out when they were  both in work, and Mr B was substantially the main 
earner. So I think its likely  that if Mr B lost his job this wouldve had a significant impact on 
their joint finances. I think it mightve  been  difficult for Mrs B to keep up with the mortgage 
payments on her own  especially after Mr B went down  to half pay only.  
Overall, I think that PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B.   
Mr B wasnt affected by any of the main  things the policy didnt cover. So, I think  it unlikely 
that having better information about the policys exclusions  and limitations wouldve affected 
Mr and Mrs Bs decision  to take out the cover for Mr B.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs B when they bought  the policy. 
But they havent suggested  that they couldnt afford  the monthly premiums.  Its possible 
there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold.  But I think Mr and Mrs B 
still wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd been better  informed as the policy gave them  
useful protection  in their particular situation. 
So I dont  find theyve  lost out financially as a result of anything  that Halifax mightve done 
wrong.
Ive taken into account all Mr and Mrs Bs comments, including what theyve said about not 
taking out any other  PPI. But this doesnt  mean that Halifax mis-sold them this policy. Ive 
looked at the circumstances  that apply in this particular  case  and reached my conclusions 
based on everything Ive seen  and been  told about this sale. 
Ref: DRN47982613my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 November 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4798261