K821x#15complaint
Mr J and Mrs Rs complaint  is about  three payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policies sold 
to them  with loans  in 2004, 2006 and 2009. They  say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them the 
policies.
All the loans  were taken out in joint names  but the PPI covered Mr J only.
background
When Mr J and Mrs R originally complained to Lloyds it said it hadnt mis-sold the PPI in 
2004 and 2009. But Lloyds said in 2006 it had sold them a PPI policy  paid for with a single 
premium when it should have sold them a monthly  premium policy.  My understanding is that 
Lloyds offered and paid them the difference in cost plus interest  for the time theyd  been  out 
of pocket. In total Lloyds  paid Mr J and Mrs R £1,916.56. This is known  as alternative 
redress (AR)
Mr J and Mrs R remained unhappy and their representative brought their complaint to this 
service.
Lloyds then contacted us to say it was also willing to pay Mr J and Mrs R an AR offer for the 
single premium policy they were sold in 2004.
Lloyds told us the policies sold with the loans in 2004 and 2006  were paid for with single  
premiums but the PPI sold with the 2009 policy was paid for with monthly premiums.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. They  thought  the following:
That the new AR offer on the 2004 loan was fair. 
That Lloyds should fully uphold the complaint  about the single premium  policy  sold in 
2006 and pay Mr J and Mrs R all the extra they paid because PPI was added to the 
loan plus compensatory interest  and not just the alternative redress.  
That Lloyds had not mis-sold the monthly  premium policy it says it sold with the loan 
taken out in 2009. 
Mr J and Mrs Rs representative didnt agree with the adjudicators findings so the complaint 
was passed to me.
In the meantime Lloyds agreed to make Mr J and Mrs R an offer on the PPI sold in 2009.  
This was in relation to undisclosed commission.
In March 2019 I issued my provisional findings. These were that:
That the new AR offer on the 2004 loan was fair.
That Lloyds should fully uphold the complaint  about the single premium  policy  sold in 
2006 and pay Mr J and Mrs R all the extra they paid because PPI was added to the 
loan plus compensatory interest,  not just alternative redress.  
That the policy sold in 2009 was actually  funded  with a single premium. I said this 
because I saw evidence which made  me think interest was added  to the premium 
which would not be the case if it was funded with a monthly  premium.  I assessed it 
Ref: DRN45798322as a single  premium policy and as such I thought it had been mis-sold and that 
Lloyds should  pay Mr J and Mrs R all the extra  they paid because PPI was added to 
the loan plus compensatory  interest.
Lloyds then contacted us with new information that persuaded me that the policy sold in 
2009 was actually funded  with monthly  premiums rather than a single premium  added to the 
loan.
I therefore issued  a second provisional decision in May 2019. A copy  of which  is attached 
and forms part of this final decision.
In my second provisional decision  I set out the following findings:
That the new AR offer on the 2004 loan was fair.
That Lloyds should fully uphold the complaint  about the single premium  policy  sold in 
2006 and pay Mr J and Mrs R all the extra they paid because PPI was added to the 
loan plus compensatory interest,  not just alternative redress.  
That the policy sold in 2009 was funded with monthly premiums. I said this as I had 
now seen accounts for the full term of the loan. I thought it had been  mis-sold and 
that Lloyds should  refund Mr J and Mrs R all the premiums they paid for the PPI 
policy plus compensatory interest.
Mr J and Mrs Rs representative have responded to say they have nothing  further  to add. 
Lloyds has said it accepts  my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Neither Lloyds nor Mr J or Mrs R have replied with any new evidence or points for me to 
consider. Therefore I see no reason to depart from the findings  I set out in my provisional 
decision in May 2019.
what Lloyds needs to do
For loan ending 5213 I think Lloyds offer of AR is fair.
For loan ending 0173 Lloyds needs  to do the following:
Mr J and Mrs R borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger than it shouldve 
been. They  paid more than they shouldve each month and it cost them more  to repay the 
loan than it wouldve. So Mr J and Mrs R need to get back  the extra theyve paid.
So, Lloyds should:
 Work out and pay Mr J and Mrs R the difference between  what they paid each 
month on the loan and what  they wouldve paid without PPI.  
Ref: DRN45798323 Work out and pay Mr J and Mrs R the difference between  what it cost to pay off the 
loan and what it would have cost to pay off the loan without  PPI.
 Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr J and Mrs R paid from when they paid it 
until they get it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
 If Mr J made a successful  claim  under  the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off what  Mr J 
and Mrs R got for the claim from the amount it owes them.   
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr J and Mrs R a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
For loan ending 8484 Lloyds needs  to do the following:
Lloyds should  put Mr J and Mrs R in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken out 
PPI. Lloyds should:
Pay Mr J and Mrs R the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr J and Mrs R a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Lloyds can deduct  any compensation amount its already paid Mr J and Mrs R from the total 
it owes them.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in this final decision and in the attached provisional decision I uphold                          
Mr  J and Mrs Rs complaint  and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr J and Mrs R 
compensation as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 July 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN45798324copy  of my provisional  decision
complaint
Mr J and Mrs Rs complaint is about three payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policies sold to them  
with loans  in 2004, 2006  and 2009. They say Lloyds  Bank  PLC mis-sold  them the policies.
All the loans  were taken out in joint names but the PPI covered Mr J only.
background
When Mr J and Mrs R originally complained  to Lloyds  it said it hadnt mis-sold the PPI in 2004 and 
2009. But Lloyds said in 2006 it had sold them a PPI policy paid for with a single  premium when it 
should have sold them a monthly premium policy. My understanding is that Lloyds offered and paid 
them the difference  in cost plus interest for the time theyd been  out of pocket. In total Lloyds paid Mr 
J and Mrs R £1,916.56. This is known  as alternative  redress  (AR)
Mr J and Mrs R remained unhappy and their representative brought  their complaint to this service.
Lloyds then contacted us to say it was also willing to pay Mr J and Mrs R an AR offer for the single 
premium policy they were  sold in 2004.
Lloyds told us the policies  sold with the loans in 2004 and 2006 were paid for with single premiums 
but the PPI sold with the 2009  policy was paid for with monthly premiums.
Our adjudicator looked  at the complaint. They  thought  the following:
That the new AR offer on the 2004  loan was fair. 
That Lloyds should fully uphold the complaint about the single  premium policy  sold in 2006 
and pay Mr J and Mrs R all the extra they paid because PPI was added  to the loan plus 
compensatory interest and not just the alternative redress. 
That Lloyds had not mis-sold the monthly premium policy it says it sold with the loan taken out 
in 2009. 
Mr J and Mrs Rs representative didnt agree  with the adjudicators findings  so the complaint was 
passed to me.
In the meantime Lloyds agreed  to make  Mr J and Mrs R an offer on the PPI sold in 2009.  This was in 
relation to undisclosed commission.
In March 2019  I issued my provisional findings. These were that:
That the new AR offer on the 2004  loan was fair.
That Lloyds should fully uphold the complaint about the single  premium policy  sold in 2006 
and pay Mr J and Mrs R all the extra they paid because PPI was added  to the loan plus 
compensatory interest, not just alternative redress. 
That the policy sold in 2009 was actually funded with a single  premium. I said this because  I 
saw evidence which made me think interest was added to the premium which  would not be 
the case  if it was funded with a monthly premium.  I assessed it as a single premium policy 
and as such  I thought  it had been mis-sold  and that Lloyds should pay Mr J and Mrs R all the 
extra they paid because PPI was added  to the loan plus compensatory  interest.
Mr J and Mrs R told us they had nothing further to add.
Ref: DRN45798325Lloyds has since contacted us with new information about the PPI sold in 2009. It has now provided  
new evidence to show the 2009 PPI policy was funded with monthly premiums and not with a single  
premium. 
To avoid complicating matters further Ive set out my findings on each PPI policy separately.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
PPI sold in 2004  with loan account ending 5213
Lloyds sold Mr J and Mrs R a PPI policy when they took out a loan in June 2004. The PPI was paid 
for upfront by Mr J and Mrs R borrowing  more. The loan was for £6,499 and the PPI cost a further 
£1,410.84  so they borrowed £7,909.84 in total.  The loan was due to be repaid over 72 months.
 Im intending  to find that Lloyds offer of AR on this loan is fair. Ill now explain why.
Unfortunately Lloyds hasnt been able to show us the original credit  agreement  for the loan. Thats  not 
surprising as it was taken out, and cleared, many years ago. But Lloyds has shown us examples of 
the type of credit agreement that it says were in use in June 2004. And from experience I think  Mr J 
and Mrs R wouldve signed the same or similar forms.
On the sample  application form the key financial information details  about the main  loan, and the loan 
for the PPI policy are listed separately. There are tick boxes to indicate if Mr J and Mrs R wanted to 
accept the PPI or decline it. The loan and PPI were  arranged during  a branch meeting, and I think its 
likely the PPI was discussed  during the meeting. Overall, on this loan I think  its more  likely Mr J and 
Mrs R knew  they had a choice and agreed to take the PPI although I can understand why they may 
not recall this after so many years.
Lloyds recommended the PPI policy  to Mr J and Mrs R, so it had to check if the cover was right for 
them. And based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time, I think  it was.
The policy covered Mr J only.  Mr J has told us that he was employed. And his employer  wouldve paid 
him sick pay for up to three months if he became too unwell to work. But the PPI couldve paid out a 
monthly benefit for up to 60 months Mr J wasnt able to work because  of sickness or accident.  And 
the policy  wouldve also paid off the loans if he died. 
The policy would also have paid out for up to 12 months if Mr J lost his job. Meaning he could use any 
redundancy pay for other living costs.  
Mr J and Mrs R have  said that Mrs R wouldve found work if Mr J was unable to. But it isnt 
guaranteed that Mrs R wouldve been able to find work quickly. And the PPI would mean  she wouldnt  
have to find work to pay the loan repayments if things went wrong.  
Mr J and Mrs R havent  told us of any significant savings  they could  fall back on. So I think  Mr J had a 
need for the cover.
The cost of the policy  was likely shown on the credit  agreement  including the premium, the interest 
payable on the premium  and the total cost. So it was likely clear how much the PPI would cost Mr J 
and Mrs R kept the policy  for its full term. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr J and Mrs R about the PPI policy wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But I think  they chose to take out the policies - so it looks like they wanted this type of 
Ref: DRN45798326cover. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Js circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was affected  
by any of the main limitations on the PPI  a pre-existing  medical condition as an example.
So the policy  wouldve been useful  for Mr J if something went wrong. 
But Mr J and Mrs R wouldve  only got a limited  refund of the premium if the policy was cancelled 
early. And they appear to have taken the loan out for a car. The loan was over six years which  is a 
fairly long time for a car loan. And this means they may have wanted to refinance the loan at some 
time for a new car. Because of this I think the single premium  policy was mis-sold to Mr J and Mrs R. 
The offer Lloyds made for this particular PPI sale is known as alternative  redress  (AR).  This is when 
a business thinks the consumer  wouldve have bought a regular  premium policy  instead of a single 
premium one. And the redress  puts the customer in the position they wouldve  been in if this had 
happened. 
In the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) rules it allows businesses to offer alternative redress,  but 
only in certain  circumstances.  
. It says a business can offer AR when the business:
recommended  a policy, that didnt offer a proportionate refund of the single premium, without  
considering if the consumer might want to repay or refinance the loan early  or;
didnt tell the consumer they wouldnt receive  a proportionate refund of the single premium 
amount if they repaid  or refinanced the loan early or;
didnt tell the consumer the premium would be added to the loan, that it would attract interest 
and what that interest would be or;
didnt tell the consumer the term of the policy was shorter  than the term of the loan and; 
there was nothing else wrong with how the PPI was sold that would mean the consumer 
wouldnt have bought a regular  premium  policy.
Having looked at what happened when Lloyds sold Mr J and Mrs R the policy in 2004,  I think  the only 
mistake Lloyds made was covered by the AR guidance. Apart from that, I think the policy was right for 
them.
Taking everything into account, I think Lloyds offer of AR compensation is fair. It aims to put 
Mr J and Mrs R in the position theyd be in now if theyd taken out a regular premium PPI policy.
PPI sold in 2006  with loan account ending 0173
Lloyds sold Mr J and Mrs R a PPI policy when they took out a loan in June 2006. The PPI was paid 
for upfront by Mr J and Mrs R borrowing  more. The loan was for £6,500 and the PPI cost a further 
£1,843.04  so they borrowed £8,343.04 in total.  The loan was due to be repaid over 72 months.
Im intending  to find that Lloyds mis-sold the policy and needs to pay Mr J and Mrs R everything extra  
the policy  cost them plus compensatory interest. I dont think an AR offer for this loan would be fair. Ill 
now explain  why.
Lloyds originally made an AR offer on this loan.
In this case Lloyds have found the original loan agreement from 2006.  It is very different to the type in 
use in 2004.
Ref: DRN45798327I can see it required Mr J to tick a box and then sign separately  to agree  for the PPI to be added  to the 
loan. And I can see there is a large arrow with the words Please Tick and Sign beside  the PPI 
section.
I can see the box to add PPI has not been ticked even though Mr J has signed in this section.
It could be Mr J simply overlooked ticking the box but signed as he wanted the PPI. But overall I cant  
be certain he agreed for the PPI to be added to the loan. And Mr J and Mrs R have told us they were 
not aware of the PPI.
For this reason Im intending  to fully uphold  Mr J and Mrs Rs complaint about the sale of the single 
premium PPI with loan ending 0173.
I can see Lloyds has already agreed to do this. 
My understanding is that Lloyds has already  paid Mr J and Mrs R some compensation for the sale of 
this policy when it made them an AR offer.  If thats the case it can deduct what its already paid from 
what it owes  them.
PPI sold in 2009  with loan account ending 8484
Lloyds sold Mr J and Mrs R a PPI policy when they took out a loan in January 2009.
Lloyds has told us this PPI policy  was a monthly premium policy unlike the previous two policies 
which were  funded with single premiums added to the loans.
We asked  Lloyds several times  for an explanation  of why the PPI premium on this loan seems to have 
attracted interest  as indicated on the information provided. With a monthly  premium policy  there is no 
reason why any interest would have occurred  on the monthly premiums.
Lloyds then showed us a different screenshot from a system  known as HUON which  simply read 
MTHLY underneath the word AGENT. Lloyds told us it has no other information to show  the policy 
was a monthly premium and not a single  premium policy.
In the absence  of any other evidence I thought it most likely the PPI sold in 2009 was funded with a 
single premium. However, Lloyds has now shown us new evidence. Its given us a copy of the loan 
transaction history. It shows the loan began in January  2009 and was cleared in August 2013. The 
loan was for £7,500, and the history  shows the total amount borrowed at the start was £7,500.  If the 
PPI premium was paid with a single  premium  it would  have been added  to the loan, increasing  the 
amount borrowed. 
All this means I am now persuaded the PPI sold with the loan was paid for with monthly  premiums of 
around £30.45.
Ive therefore re-assessed the complaint on that basis.
Disappointingly Lloyds have not been able to give us a copy of the loan agreement. I note the loan 
was taken  out in 2009 and the complaint was passed to this service  within six years in 2014.  So Id 
expect a business  to have retained  the credit  agreement.  
Ive seen samples of credit agreements for loans sold with regular  premiums from around the same 
time. They are similar  to the one Mr J signed in 2006 but where he didnt tick to agree for the PPI to 
be added to the loan.  
Ive taken account  of the absence of a credit agreement from 2009. And Ive also taken into account  
Mr J and Mrs Rs testimony that they were  not aware of having  agreed to the PPI. Also Ive seen that 
Ref: DRN45798328in 2006 Mr J didnt tick to agree to the PPI being added to the loan and the 2009 agreement  is likely to 
have been similar.
Weighing everything  up Im not persuaded Mr J and Mrs R were  given a fair choice about whether  to 
take out the PPI or not.
So I am intending  to uphold Mr J and Mrs Rs complaint  about  the sale of the regular premium PPI in 
2009 with loan ending 8484.   
what Lloyds needs to do
For loan ending 5213 I think Lloyds offer of AR is fair.
For loan ending 0173 Lloyds needs to do the following:
Mr J and Mrs R borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger than it shouldve been.  
They paid more than they shouldve each month and it cost them more to repay the loan than it 
wouldve. So Mr J and Mrs R need to get back the extra theyve  paid.
So, Lloyds should:
 Work out and pay Mr J and Mrs R the difference between what  they paid each month on the 
loan and what  they wouldve paid without PPI.  
 Work out and pay Mr J and Mrs R the difference between what  it cost to pay off the loan and 
what it would have cost to pay off the loan without PPI.
 Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr J and Mrs R paid from when  they paid it until they 
get it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
 If Mr J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off what  Mr J and Mrs 
R got for the claim from the amount  it owes them.   
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Lloyds  to take off tax from this interest.  Lloyds  must give Mr J and 
Mrs R a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
For loan ending 8484 Lloyds needs to do the following:
Lloyds should put Mr J and Mrs R in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. Lloyds 
should:
Pay Mr J and Mrs R the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
If Mr J made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off what  he got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes them.   
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Lloyds  to take off tax from this interest.  Lloyds  must give Mr J and 
Mrs R a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
Lloyds can deduct any compensation  amount its already paid Mr J and Mrs R from the total it owes 
them.
Ref: DRN45798329my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
intending to uphold Mr  J and Mrs Rs complaint and direct  Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr J and Mrs R 
compensation as set out above. 
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4579832