K820x#14complaint
Mr O is unhappy Nationwide Building Society restricted  his account without any notice or 
explanation as to why and provided  him with a poor level of service throughout. Mr O says 
this caused him significant trouble and upset which he thinks he should be compensated for. 
background
Mr Os account was restricted by Nationwide on 18 October 2018.  He found out when he 
attended branch  that day to make a payment towards his credit  card.  Nationwide asked Mr 
O some  questions  around the movement of funds in and out of his accounts and asked him 
to provide evidence  to support his explanation.  
Mr O told Nationwide that the large  payment  he received  into his account  on 16 October  
2017 was from a friend he was helping to purchase  a property at auction. He explained that 
his friends circumstances changed so the property purchase didnt go ahead. His friend said 
he could hold onto the money  and earn some interest off it by way of thanks for all his help. 
The funds were subsequently moved  to other accounts or withdrawn and then deposited 
back into accounts held by Mr O. Mr O explained  this was because  his friend had thought  
about making anonymous charitable donations  but had subsequently changed her mind  and 
also the other accounts had more favourable interest rates.  
Mr O says he eventually moved  all the money back into one account so he could pay his 
friend back in one payment via cheque. There was also around £780 of Mr Os own money 
in the account at the time of the restriction,  made up of unspent  benefit  payments from his 
local council. 
Mr O explained all this to Nationwide  and gave them evidence of the house sale on 22 
October 2018. 
Nationwide contacted Mr O on 28 November 2018 to let him know it would be closing his 
account and explained it would do so when he visited  the branch the following day to collect  
the funds in his account. Mr O did this, collecting his balance via two cheques and his 
account was closed. His credit card was also closed. 
Mr O has explained that Nationwides actions have caused him significant  trouble and upset;  
affecting his health and financial situation. He said its actions resulted in the breakdown of a 
friendship, caused reputational damage  and ruined several important plans and events in his 
life such as travelling  to a friends funeral and his birthday celebrations. Hes also said that 
Nationwides staff were  rude and condescending  throughout the ordeal, referring to one call 
in particular in his complaint to Nationwide. 
Nationwide has said that it placed  the restriction in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account, so it could comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. It didnt agree that its 
staff were rude but did apologise that Mr O was given incorrect  information on one occasion  
around payments  still being able to credit  the account. 
Mr O remained  unhappy so referred  his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint explaining that Nationwide  hadnt made any errors when restricting or 
closing Mr Os account, as it had acted in line with the terms and conditions and its legal 
and regulatory  obligations. He was satisfied theyd acted within a reasonable time frame  and 
Ref: DRN43679492not caused any delays. The investigator was also satisfied with the level of service 
Nationwide had provided. 
Mr O responded disputing that this was a fair outcome, unhappy that Nationwide  is using 
legislation and regulations to avoid  responsibility  for the damage  they caused  him. Because 
Mr O disagreed with the investigators findings, the complaint has now been passed to me to 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as
the investigator previously  set out and for much the same reasons.
Restriction and closure
Nationwide has a wide range of legal  and regulatory  obligations it must meet when providing 
account services to its customers.  These  are ongoing  so dont just apply at account  opening  
stage. To comply with these obligations,  it may need to review  accounts and the activity  
taking place on them. And part of this might  require it to restrict a customers access  to an 
account where appropriate. If Nationwide didnt do this, it could risk serious  sanction.
With this in mind, Im satisfied  Nationwide  was within its rights to restrict Mr Os account  and 
request information  from him regarding his account  movements. And, having considered all 
the information available to me I can understand why Nationwide  wanted  to review the 
account and ask questions of Mr O. 
It was also entitled  to close his account.  It did so in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations and, having reviewed the terms and conditions from around the time of the 
restriction, it did so in line with these too. I understand Mr O feels  this is unfair  and has 
pointed to him being a longstanding customer,  with a good  credit score. However,  
Nationwide has the discretion to offer accounts to who it wishes,  just as Mr O can choose 
who to bank with. Therefore,  the closure  of the account didnt require the mutual  agreement  
between Mr O and Nationwide.  
Nationwide wasnt obliged to tell Mr O why it had restricted the account. And it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to require it do so.
Mr O has explained how he was impacted by the restriction, so Ive looked at whether 
Nationwide couldve acted  any quicker  than it did or done anything  differently. But from 
everything Ive seen Im satisfied the time and actions taken were necessary and reasonable 
for Nationwide  to conduct its review and meet its legal and regulatory obligations. 
I should also note that this doesnt appear to be Mr Os main account and he hadnt 
withdrawn the benefit money from it since November 2017  suggesting  he wasnt  reliant on 
this money. Plus,  although  there was a small amount of his own money in there, Mr Os 
explained the vast majority of the money belonged to his friend.  So, presumably he wouldnt 
have been able to spend that either. 
Ref: DRN43679493So, whilst I appreciate the restriction and closure caused Mr O a significant  degree of trouble 
and upset, I cant say Nationwide made  any mistakes that mean it should compensate him 
for this. I understand Mr Os feelings  around  Nationwide hiding behind  legislation and 
regulations, but the fact remains that these must be followed and its reasonable for 
Nationwide to take steps to ensure it does so. 
Customer service  
I have no doubt  that Mr O wouldve been  frustrated  by the service  he received from 
Nationwide. Its clear  he doesnt think he was getting satisfactory answers to his questions. 
However, the information provided by Nationwide during the calls was accurate. Ive already 
explained that Nationwide wasnt under any obligation to tell Mr O why his account had been 
restricted and Im satisfied it did the right thing in telling him it couldnt give a specific 
timescale. This is accurate and didnt raise his expectations.  
Having listened  to numerous calls,  Im also satisfied Nationwides staff remained 
professional. Its admitted  to giving one piece  of incorrect  information around incoming 
payments being  able to credit the account and has apologised for this. I think this is enough.  
Im sure it caused inconvenience  that the payment  didnt credited, but as Ive already 
explained, I dont  believe Nationwide made  an error in blocking the account. 
Mr O referred  to one call in particular in his complaint to Nationwide.  Unfortunately  calls to 
that department  arent recorded,  so Ive not been able to listen  to this. However,  I can 
appreciate being asked  about the account mustve understandably felt challenging to Mr O 
and I can imagine the tone of that type of conversation mightve  been  different. But how 
someone is coming across on a call is very subjective, and other  than how Mr O felt, I 
havent been able to conclude the person he spoke to acted inappropriately.
Considering everything  I have seen, I dont think Nationwide  needs  to take any further action 
in relation to the service it provided to Mr O. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint against Nationwide  Building Society. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4367949