K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that his insurer,  Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso) 
has unfairly declined  his claim and cancelled his policy without refunding his premiums.
background
Mr A said he discovered the loss of valuable items at home  and reported this to the police. 
He said this was between £14,000 to £15,000 in cash and £20,000 to £25,000 of jewellery. 
Mr A said the police didnt  attend and he eventually reported the loss to Ocaso.  He said 
Ocaso told his broker  the items werent insured and then cancelled his policy without giving 
him a reason. Mr A said that his broker has told him the items were insured.
Ocaso said there were  no signs of forcible  entry into Mr As home and no signs  of burglary 
inside the house. And it said Mr A had declared no valuables on his insurance proposal. 
Ocaso declined  the claim  because  Mr A reported  it outside of the 90 day time limit within  the 
policy, and it cancelled  his policy for non-disclosure  of the valuable items within the home.  
Mr As broker wrote  to say that its a condition of his policy that claims are reported within 90 
days and in any event  there is a policy  limit in respect of valuables. The broker  said the 
policy limit was disagreed  but Ocaso had instructed  it to cancel the policy.  
Ocaso said the policy wasnt acceptable as the valuables exceeded its underwriting limit. It 
said its claims department failed to notify its underwriting department  about this but it did 
hear from the broker. Ocaso  said it would normally void the policy  from inception  for non-
disclosure, but as it was unaware of the non-disclose until several months  later, it said this 
would have been inappropriate, so this instead led to the cancellation of the policy.
The investigator recommended  that the complaint be upheld  in part. He said Ocaso  had 
cancelled Mr As policy because he had misrepresented his valuables. He said if it had 
known how much jewellery Mr A owned  it wouldn't have sold him the policy and so the policy  
shouldve been  voided from inception and Mr As premiums returned.  The investigator said 
poor communication about the claim and the reasons for declining  it meant that Ocaso put 
Mr A to unnecessary trouble, and he recommended  it pay Mr A £150 compensation.
Ocaso agreed with the investigator  about  paying Mr A £150 compensation. But it disagreed 
about voiding the policy saying it was cancelled as the policy provides cover for both 
buildings and contents and the broker is unable to void one part. 
Mr A disagreed, saying  in his community people have a lot of jewellery and Ocaso  never 
asked him how much  jewellery  he had. He said the insurer only asked about valuable 
paintings and Art. Mr A requested that an ombudsman review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent considered the actions of Mr As 
broker and he would  need to bring a separate complaint if he wants  this to be considered.
Ive looked carefully  at Ocasos handling of Mr As policy and claim to see if it has treated 
him fairly. To do this I have looked  to see if Mr A was asked a clear question  about his 
valuables and whether he took care to provide accurate  information.  
Ref: DRN41349672Mr A said that the insurer didnt ask him about his jewellery. However the proposal form asks 
about valuables  including  jewellery and the insurer asked whether the sum insured of 
£20,000 was enough to cover all contents including valuables, and Mr A said it was. This 
appears to be a clear  indication of what is required of Mr A. His policy shows  what items 
should be included  on the cover as valuables, but the value of valuables  is described as nil. 
Mr A was required  to provide an accurate  response  to these questions,  but unfortunately he 
has misrepresented  his situation. Ocaso  has showed us its underwriting  guidelines and its 
clear that had it known  about the correct  value of Mr As valuables  it wouldnt have offered 
him cover. Although  I think Mr As responses were  careless rather than deliberate, I think  
this induced Ocaso to offer him cover that it wouldnt otherwise have offered. For this reason 
I think it was fair for Ocaso to end Mr As policy. 
Its not clear to me why Ocaso  hasnt voided the policy when it has grounds to do so, or why 
it hasnt explained  to Mr A under which part of his policy it has declined his claim. However,  
voiding the policy will mean  there is no cover under which to consider the claim and I think 
that it would  be a fair to Mr A for Ocaso to void his policy for his misrepresentation. 
My reasoning is that, in effect, Ocaso has exercised its contractual  right to cancel rather  than 
its right under insurance law to void the policy. I think  an insurer can choose to ignore a 
misrepresentation (whether deliberate, careless or reckless) if it wants to, and to continue to 
offer cover under the policy  that was issued.  But if it does  that, I dont think  its fair for it to 
then cancel the policy on the basis that the policyholder doesnt fit their risk profile. I think 
that if an insurer wants to come off risk it has two choices:
-to void the policy  as per its rights  under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and
Representations) Act 2012; or,
-to ignore the misrepresentation and provide cover until the next renewal,  and then 
not offer renewal.
By acting  as it has towards  Mr As policy, Ocaso  has obtained the best outcome  for itself in 
that it doesnt pay Mr As claim; it doesnt have  to maintain his cover, and it doesnt have to 
refund his premiums.  So I agree with the investigator that Ocasos decisions were unfair to 
Mr A and it should have  voided his policy and refunded two years premium.
Insurance law requires a consumer  to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation 
and provides a remedy when  a policy holder  makes a careless misrepresentation that affects 
the cover  an insurer has offered. The law allows a policy to be voided with a refund of 
premiums paid from inception, and I think in Mr As situation it would be reasonable for 
Ocaso to take this action. 
I dont think it would  be very difficult to calculate the contents element of the insurance  
premiums that Mr A has paid for his joint contents  and building  policy, and I think  this should 
be reimbursed to Mr A together with interest. I award interest  as Mr A has lost use of his 
money in respect  of cover from which he could derive no benefit.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld  in part. I 
require Ocaso  SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros to void Mr As contents  insurance 
policy from inception and reimburse him for the contents premiums he has paid on his policy 
Ref: DRN41349673since inception, together with interest* at the simple rate of 8% per year to the date it makes 
the payment.  I also require Ocaso SA, Compania  de Seguros y Reaseguros to pay Mr A 
compensation of £150 for the poor service he received. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros to take off tax 
from this interest.  Ocaso  SA, Compania  de Seguros y Reaseguros must  give a certificate showing 
how much  tax its taken off it if Mr A asks for one.
Ref: DRN4134967