K820x#14complaint
Mr E is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA)  has declined  his claim for damage  
caused by subsidence under his buildings insurance  policy.
When I refer to AXA Im also referring to any of its appointed representatives
background
In 2018 Mr E noticed cracking in the concrete floor of an outbuilding at his property. He 
made a claim for subsidence under his buildings insurance policy.
AXA sent an expert to Mr Es property to assess the damage to the outbuilding.  The expert 
said that the foundations  of the outbuilding werent adequate for the type of structure and 
taking into account  the surrounding vegetation. So it declined the claim for defective design. 
Mr E was unhappy with this. He said the outbuilding had stood for 15 years without any 
problems. He also said the outbuilding had been signed off by his local councils building  
regulations department at the time it was built. Mr E said that the extreme  weather conditions 
in 2018 had led to the cracking appearing, not defective design as mentioned by AXA. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Es complaint. He said that the foundations of the structure 
varied in places and didnt  meet building requirements. He also said that the single concrete 
slab used for the floor of the outbuilding wasnt supported adequately when it was laid. The 
investigator said it was fair of AXA to decline the claim on this basis.
Mr E didnt agree so its been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr Es policy  includes  some  general exclusions that apply  throughout the policy. One of 
these exclusions explains that damage caused as a result of faulty  workmanship isnt 
covered by the policy. This is as follows;
Faulty workmanship  
Faulty workmanship, defective design or the use of defective materials.
And it is this exclusion that AXA has used to decline Mr Es claim. 
Its been accepted by AXA that there has been ground movement around the outbuilding at 
Mr Es property  which has led to the cracking in the concrete slab appearing. So I have to 
decide if its acted  fairly  and reasonably  in declining Mr Es claim by relying on this exclusion.  
In this case I think it has. 
The preliminary report carried  out by AXA suggested that the concrete slab the outbuilding  
was on also acted as the foundations for the building. And, it didnt  have the correct depth  to 
also act as the foundations. It also said that the structure didnt appear to be supported or 
reinforced as it would  expect it to be. The expert  said he would expect to see foundations  at 
a depth of between 1,800mm and 2,000mm for this type of structure,  in line with the building  
Ref: DRN40166282regulations, or a substantial piece of reinforcement applied. But to be sure the expert 
recommended that trial pits were  dug around  the outbuilding so a more accurate 
assessment of the depth of the slab and any reinforcement could be assessed. 
Following the digging of the trial pits and further  detailed assessment of the slab and the 
damage, the expert concluded  that the slab had a depth of 400mm  in places. And in other 
places it wasnt as deep as this. It was also concluded that no reinforcement work had been 
carried out when  the outbuilding was built. Because of this AXA declined  the claim. It said 
that the damage to the outbuilding  had been caused as a result of defective design, which is 
excluded under Mr Es policy. 
Mr E is disappointed with AXAs decision and has provided evidence that his local council 
approved the outbuilding in 2002. Mr E wants to know how that was possible if the 
outbuilding hadnt been built correctly. Im not in a position to give Mr E any further 
information on that. I dont know what checks the council  undertook  to sign the building off. 
And I can only look at what the insurer has done in this situation  and whether its decision  
is fair.  
But Im persuaded  by the experts report and guidance regarding  the relevant  building  
regulations and the cause  of the damage  to the outbuilding  than any other piece  of 
information that Ive seen.  
The guidance explains  that the necessary depth of the foundations can vary dependant  on a 
number of factors such as the type of clay, the closeness of vegetation and also in the UK 
the location of the building. 
The insurers  expert has shown that the building regulations at the time expected 
foundations to be 1.85m in depth  taking  into account these factors. The foundations of       
Mr Es outbuilding dont  meet  these guidelines. Im satisfied  that the tests carried out were 
detailed. Trial pits were  excavated  at either  end of the outbuilding floor to check the depth of 
the foundations and also the soil beneath. It was also noted by the expert that a silver birch 
tree was located  close to the rear right corner of the outbuilding. He felt that the roots had 
removed moisture from the clay subsoil and caused  the clay shrinkage movement. Because 
the single  slab floor wasnt reinforced,  the ground movement had created tension in the slab 
which has led to it cracking.  
Given the above, Im satisfied that this is persuasive  evidence the cause of the cracking  was 
as a result  of this faulty design.
Because of this Im satisfied that AXA has acted reasonably when declining Mr Es claim. I 
wont be asking it to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019. 
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN40166283
Ref: DRN4016628