K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling  of his car insurance  policy.
background
Mr S has had car insurance  with AXA since 2015.  When he renewed  his policy  in May 2018, 
he noticed his premium had increased.  When Mr S challenged AXA they told him that since  
his 2017 renewal he was involved in two incidents,  both of which  were  recorded against his 
record on a shared insurance  database.  The first incident was in August 2017, which didnt 
involve any claims against his policy. AXA said that that incident didnt affect the price of his 
2018 renewal  premium. The second  incident  was in January  2018.  That was recorded as a 
non-fault claim and did affect his premium.
Mr S then took out insurance with another  insurer at which point he found out there were two 
further incidents recorded on the insurance database. One was from April 2015, before he 
was insured with AXA,  which was a non-fault claim.  The other was an incident  from 
July 2016, which was recorded on the insurance  database as non-fault by the third partys  
insurer, not by AXA.
Mr S complained saying  that AXA hadnt told him about the incidents recorded on his record, 
nor did they investigate them. AXA didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. AXA said that Mr S told 
them about  the August 2017 and January 2018 incidents, which is why they recorded them 
on the insurance database.  AXA also said that they werent aware of the 2015 and 2016 
incidents because  they were never told about them.
Mr S didn't  think that was fair and brought his complaint  to us. One of our adjudicators  
looked into the complaint. He felt that AXA hadnt done anything  wrong.  As Mr S didnt agree 
with our adjudicator,  the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr S, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain  why.
In his complaint,  Mr S has made  a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if AXA have dealt with Mr S in a fair and reasonable way.
I should start by saying  that the incident  in 2015 was recorded  on the insurance database by 
another insurer, not by AXA. At the time of that incident AXA werent  Mr Ss insurer  and they 
werent aware of it. So if Mr S is unhappy about that incident being recorded  on the 
database, then he would  have to complain  to the insurer who made the record.  Likewise, the 
2016 incident was recorded on the database by the insurer of the other driver involved in the 
incident. While AXA were  Mr Ss insurer at the time,  they werent  made aware of the 
incident. So, again, if Mr S is unhappy  about that incident being recorded on the database  
he would  have to complain to the other  insurer. But, I should  say that, as AXA didnt know  
about those two incidents, they didnt have any bearing on the price  of the premium when 
Mr Ss policy  renewed in May 2018.
Ref: DRN46350052AXA did know about the incidents in 2017  and 2018  because Mr S told them. I should say 
that insurers have  a duty to accurately record incidents on the insurance database. So I think  
it was reasonable  for AXA to record both incidents on the database. No claims were  made 
against Mr Ss policy as a result of the 2017 incident, so I understand AXA recorded that as 
notification only which is normal industry  practice and what I would expect AXA to do. 
Notification only is how an incident that didnt  result in a claim being made is recorded. AXA 
have said that that incident didnt cause Mr Ss 2018 renewal premium to increase. Although  
other insurers might charge a higher premium because of the incident, but AXA cant be held 
responsible if that happens.
As for the 2018  incident, Mr S said the claim was fictitious. But he told AXA that he pulled 
out of a side street and collided with another vehicle.  I understand that AXA did pay out on a 
claim made against Mr Ss policy.  But AXA still recorded that incident  as non-fault  against  
Mr Ss record. Often where an insurer pays out on a claim and cant  recover  their costs  from 
another party, the industry practice is to record the incident as being  a fault claim. But AXA 
didnt do that in this case and recorded  it as non-fault.  While  I understand that the non-fault  
claim caused the May 2018 policy renewal premium  to increase, I understand that had it 
been recorded as a fault claim the increase  would  have  been higher. I therefore think AXAs  
actions were reasonable.
I should say that none of the incidents recorded  against Mr Ss record on the insurance 
database have  had any affect on his no claims bonus (NCB).
Mr S believes the increase to his premium was unfair because of the 2018  non-fault  claim 
against his record.  It might help if I explain that we're not the industry regulator. That means  
it's not my role to tell an insurer how much  they can charge for their policies.  And our service  
generally takes the view that, providing they treat people  fairly - that is they treat customers 
with similar  circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to charge what  they feel 
they need to in order to cover a risk.
When setting premiums  insurers  will think about the likelihood that their policyholders will
make a claim and how much they will have to pay out for those.  In doing so insurers  take
into consideration many different factors. And its not down to me to tell insurers what factors
they should take into account when assessing  risk, nor how to go about those assessments.
Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk and the extent of those.
Thats essentially a matter  of commercial judgement, balancing  risk against  the need  to
compete with other policies on offer, and not something we would usually think  its fair to
interfere with.
I can understand why Mr S thinks it was unfair for AXA to charge a higher premium
because he was involved in a non-fault incident. But each insurer  will have  their own 
methods of calculating risk. Im aware that many  insurers say that statistics show  that a 
driver involved  in a non-fault incident  is likely  to make  a claim in the future. As insurance is 
essentially an assessment of risk, I dont  think theres anything wrong with insurers 
considering whether or not certain  individuals fall into higher risk groupings.  That is, as long 
as they have data to support their assessments. In this case, I understand that AXA have 
data that shows  that policyholders who have recent non-fault incidents are more likely to 
make a claim than those who dont. So I cant say Mr S has been singled out or treated 
differently to others  in similar circumstances.
AXA provided me with information to show how Mr Ss 2018 premium has increased. That 
information is commercially sensitive so I can't share it with Mr S. But having  looked  at it 
Ref: DRN46350053carefully, Im satisfied that AXA treated Mr S in the same way as they would other 
policyholders in similar circumstances.  So I think they calculated  his premium  reasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.   
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4635005