K821x#15Complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about ongoing issues with how National House-Building Council 
(NHBC) have  dealt  with a claim made under his Buildmark policy.
Mr R has been represented by his son throughout this complaint, but for ease of reference I 
will refer to him directly in my decision.
All references to NHBC include its appointed agents.
Background
Im aware that my summary  of the events  below is in far less detail than that provided by the 
parties concerned.  But Id like to reassure everyone that Ive carefully considered  everything 
that has been provided. Ill set out the events which I find relevant  to my decision below.
Mr R lives in a property covered by a ten-year Buildmark policy  provided  by NHBC. The start 
and end dates  of the warranty  fell between 2006  and 2016.
In October  2014, Mr R notified NHBC of some damp issues in his property. NHBC 
investigated the issue and in December  2015  it turned down  the claim. NHBC said the 
presence of a swimming  pool was causing  increased humidity. This in turn was reacting with 
the salts in the plaster to cause staining  and damage. NHBC referred  to the exclusion in the 
Buildmark policy which didnt cover for any defect or damage caused by the installation  or 
presence of a swimming  pool.
Mr R complained to NHBC about its decision to turn down the claim and the time taken to 
deal with it. In November 2016 NHBC sent its final response,  maintaining its decision to turn 
down the claim, but it offered Mr R £300  compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience it 
had caused for some  delays in the claim.  It advised him that he needed  to refer any 
complaint to our service within six months  of the date of the letter.
Mr R then appointed  a number of contractors  to deal with the matter. Mr Rs contractors  
raised concerns  about the cause  of the ingress  moisture and suggested it was likely related 
to other  issues in the property. This included  the possibility that whilst there  were  some 
smaller leaks  which had been  identified such as to the irrigation filter, there was also a large 
and as yet unidentified source of ingress  which could be linked to a failure of the 
waterproofing within the structure.
In June 2017, Mr R asked NHBC to reconsider the claim following investigations carried out 
by him and by his home insurer. NHBC reviewed the further information provided and 
arranged and carried out investigations  to determine the cause of the water ingress and 
damp.
Ref: DRN41234482After other causes of water ingress  were  ruled  out NHBC concluded that the defect in the 
waterproofing meant the structures below ground werent adequately protected  from damage  
caused by ground  water  ingress. A report provided by NHBC from October 2018 stated, 
there is lateral water penetration through or over the water  proof  concrete wall at high 
level Failure of the structural  waterproofing  is the most likely  cause  of damp  ingress and 
damage is consistent with water  over tipping the concrete wall, or water penetration through 
defects in its construction of the water  proof  concrete wall. So in November 2018 NHBC 
agreed to accept the claim (about which  Mr R had originally notified it in October  2014).
In February 2019  NHBC wrote to Mr R with an offer to settle the claim. NHBC said that it had 
determined that the total cost of repair works it had been advised were  necessary would 
exceed its liability under  the policy. It therefore  proposed to pay the policy  maximum (which 
was a substantial  sum) in line with the index linked increase set out in the policy for each 
year the policy  was in force.
NHBC said its offer was made in full and final settlement  of the claim about  which  Mr R had 
notified it in October  2014, meaning it discharged its liability for the repair  work  or any 
additional costs  above the policy maximum.
Mr R was unhappy with NHBCs offer and complained. In summary he said:
The settlement offered by NHBC wasnt enough  to cover the necessary repairs.
He was unhappy with the length of time it took NHBC to deal with the claim.
He wanted  NHBC  to pay for damage to a water pipe and pool cover which  was 
caused by its contractors during the investigation.
He was unhappy with NHBCs general level of service in dealing with the claim.
NHBC responded to Mr R and accepted there were delays in processing the claim. It offered 
Mr R £1,300 for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
NHBC said it wouldnt increase the cash settlement offered in respect of the damage to the 
property as it was already  at the maximum limit linked  to its liability  under the policy. And it 
didnt agree that it should pay for the damage  caused by its contractors because  of the time 
that had passed between  the alleged event happening and Mr R reporting it.
Mr R accepted NHBCs cash settlement  but referred  the complaint to our service as he 
maintained it wasnt  sufficient to cover  the necessary repairs.
Our investigator looked at everything  and concluded that our service wouldnt be able to 
consider any events which happened  prior to NHBCs final response  issued  in         
November 2016  as Mr R hadnt referred the complaint to us in time. 
Our investigator then considered the events since November 2016. They concluded that 
NHBC had calculated the settlement fairly  and in line with the policy terms. And they were 
satisfied that the terms of the settlement showed that NHBC  had discharged its liability  for 
any costs relating to the defect which were over and above this settlement amount.
Our investigator didnt  conclude that NHBC unreasonably delayed reaching the final 
settlement but did conclude that NHBCs contractors had caused damage  to a water  pipe 
and pool cover which  werent linked to the original  defect. So they recommended  that NHBC 
should pay the reasonable costs of putting  this right.
Ref: DRN41234483Our investigator also concluded  the £1,300 compensation offered by NHBC for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused was fair in the circumstances of the claim.
NHBC accepted our investigators conclusions. Mr R disagreed. He said he had referred his 
original complaint in time so felt these events should  be considered.  And he said that the 
time it took for NHBC to investigate the issue meant  he was unable to sell the property. Mr R 
added that he was still significantly out of pocket for the repairs and had a lesser standard of 
living on the ground floor of the property, with rooms being out of use.
Mr R asked for the complaint to be passed  to an ombudsman. In addition  to the points Ive 
already set out Mr R added that:
The delays in NHBC settling the claim resulted in reoccurring water damage,  and as 
such, the overall repairs are more costly.
NHBC carried out unnecessary investigations  such as digging out his jacuzzi. This 
has added significant costs to his reinstatement and replacement costs.
Had NHBC been more thorough in their investigations in 2014 and identified the 
cause of ingress sooner, then the damage and repair  costs  wouldve been far less.
His contractors have  identified further defects with the waste drainage system which 
need to be put right.
The complaint has now been passed to me to make a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that this has been an extraordinary and complex claim for the parties involved. In 
making my decision Ive first looked at whether our service can consider the aspects of      
Mr Rs complaint to which NHBC responded in November 2016. 
NHBCs November 2016 final response 
The rules  applying to this service say that, unless the business agrees, I cant  consider a 
complaint referred  to us more than six months  after the date it sends the consumer its final 
response letter, telling them  they can refer their complaint to us. This is set out in Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) rule 2.8.2R(1), which can be found online  in the Financial  Conduct  
Authoritys handbook. Or we can provide  a copy on request.
Ive seen a copy  of NHBCs final response letter,  which  is dated  24 November 2016. And I 
can see it clearly  states Mr R needs to refer the complaint to our service  within  six months of 
the letter. Ive checked our records  and the evidence provided by Mr R and Im satisfied that 
Mr R first contacted us about  his intention to refer this complaint on 6 June  2017.  This 
means it wasnt referred to us within the six-month time limit.
Mr R says he didnt receive a copy of NHBCs final response and subsequently forwarded a 
copy to our service when he chased the matter with them. Whilst I have no reason to doubt 
what he says, based upon the evidence Ive seen I also have no reason to doubt that the 
original final response was sent by NHBC.  The letter is addressed correctly and is to the 
same address that Mr R has provided  to our service. Therefore, on balance,  I think  it more 
likely that he did receive this letter.
Ref: DRN41234484Ive considered whether Mr R was delayed in referring the complaint to us as a result of 
exceptional circumstances.  Mr R has been consistent in saying he didnt receive the original 
response on the date it was issued, but as Ive determined  the letter was addressed 
correctly, and Ive seen nothing to suggest  it wasnt sent as shown, I dont think this reason 
can be considered  as an exceptional  circumstance  in this case. And I havent  identified any 
other exceptional circumstances as to why Mr R delayed  in bringing his complaint to our 
service. 
So Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, but I will be unable to consider the events prior to               
24 November 2016 in my decision because this part of the complaint was referred too late.
Ill next go on to consider  Mr Rs unhappiness  with the settlement agreement. Ill then look at 
the impact of any delays  in the claim and consider if NHBC is liable for any further damage 
that Mr R says its responsible for. Finally Ill consider if NHBCs offer of compensation for 
the service provided  during the claim is fair and reasonable.
NHBCs settlement
NHBC accepted Mr Rs claim under  Section 3 of the Buildmark Policy. The policy covers 
problems with a newly constructed  home  that can be linked to a breach by the builder of one 
or more  of NHBCs technical requirements.  And the value of a claim needs  to exceed the 
Minimum Claim Value of the policy.
Under the section  titled What NHBC will pay for it states:
The full Cost, if it is more than £1000 Indexed, of putting right any actual physical Damage 
caused by a Defect.
The terms which cover  How to make a claim explain that a policyholder  must Contact 
NHBC as soon as the damage has been  noticed.  Give us [NHBC]  the opportunity to inspect 
before any work is done. If we ask for them, send us copies of any correspondence,  
contracts, plans, quotations, receipts  and any other  documents or information relating to 
your Home.
And this section sets out NHBCs liability as:
the most we will pay for all claims relating  to your Home under Sections 2, 3 and 5 together  
is the Original Purchase  Price  as shown on the Insurance Certificate up to a maximum of: 
£500,000 for a newly built Home
The financial limit will be increased each year in line with the Royal Institution of Chartered  
Surveyors House Re-Building Cost Index or, if less, by 12% compound per year.  If we 
accept a claim, the cost of the claim will be deducted from the financial limit.
In April 2019 Mr R accepted NHBCs offer to pay the maximum sum under the policy in 
respect of the claim he notified NHBC of in October 2014. The main crux of Mr Rs complaint 
is that the settlement offered by NHBC isnt enough to cover  the repairs necessary. There is 
a significant shortfall  between  the sum Mr R accepted and the repair  quotes hes provided, 
so I completely understand why he feels so strongly about this point.  
Ref: DRN41234485NHBCs settlement covers the underlying damage in Mr Rs property linked to the defect.       
I can see that the terms upon  which  the settlement was reached  are purported to be binding  
on both parties and state, Your acceptance of this offer will also be in full discharge of 
NHBCs liability to you in accordance with section 3 of your Buildmark  policy.  
I can also see that NHBC has explained  that in line with the terms in the Buildmark policy, it 
is choosing on this occasion, given the anticipated costs involved,  to cash  settle for its 
maximum potential liability as opposed to arranging for the necessary work to be carried out 
at its own expense.
NHBCs total sum offered matches  the maximum policy liability  set out in the terms above 
and takes into account the year on index linked increase. And Im satisfied that within the 
terms of the settlement NHBC has clearly explained this means it has exhausted the 
financial limits  available to pay for this damage. And Mr R accepted that settlement offer.  
While I understand he has said that he felt that he had no choice but to do so, Im not 
satisfied that there is any proper basis to say that he shouldnt  be bound  by the settlement. 
I can see that as part of referring  the complaint to our service  Mr R has highlighted further  
defects which his contractors have said are linked to the waste  drainage system in the 
property. But as the settlement above exhausted  the policy limit, Im satisfied  there is no 
further provision available for him to claim  here.  So I wont  require NHBC to look into this 
defect further as ultimately  there  is no longer cover available under this section of the 
Buildmark policy. However, although  I am satisfied that the settlement covers  the damage  
about which Mr R notified NHBC  in October  2014, I also think that I can go on to consider 
whether NHBCs subsequent conduct  may have led to further damage.  
Delays in the investigations
Ill now consider whether  any underlying  defects  in/with the property can be shown to have 
been substantially  made worse  by NHBCs conduct  once Mr R lodged his claim (but 
subsequent to November 2016).
Mr R provided  a report from his contractor (S) which suggested that NHBCs delays in 
investigating the claim had caused  up to £150,000 of damage.  S hasnt been specific about  
what exactly they believe this damage  entails, so Ive considered the events which led to 
NHBC re-engaging with the claim and what it knew about the cause of damage at that time.
The claim was referred  back to NHBC in June  2017 because Mr Rs investigations via his 
contractors and home insurer had shown the issue of ingress was most  likely structural. 
Therefore given the age of the property it was concluded that it was most likely a defective 
construction which had failed  so soon after the property was built. This was in contrast to 
NHBCs initial findings which linked  the ingress  to issues with the swimming pool installation. 
I can see that a number of expert reports were provided to NHBC in June 2017, and it went 
on to summarise the outstanding issues in the property.  Having reviewed  the individual 
reports and summary I can see there  wasnt a conclusive reason provided  for the ingress at 
this stage. 
However, NHBC was now aware  that the ingress  was predominately happening during or 
shortly after rainfall, which pointed to a source of outside water entering the property. And 
other issues such as condensation  had most likely been ruled out but not eliminated. So 
overall the cause  of the ingress was still unknown.
Ref: DRN41234486I can see that NHBCs summary report mentioned possible issues  with the planters which  
were adjoined  to the exterior of the property,  sources of tanking failure, and a possible leak 
in the irrigation system.  Overall, these reports highlight there were a number of suspected 
causes for water ingress  and as such NHBC needed  to eliminate these to find out its liability  
for any repairs under the policy. And the insured damage it needed to see was anything  that 
could be classed as physical damage linked  to an eligible defect.
In addition, I can see that at this stage there  were  also a number of localised leaks which  
required fixing in order for NHBC to rule out any other contributory  causes  of water ingress. 
NHBC initially asked Mr R if his contractors could  provide a quote for some of the further 
investigations required which he agreed to. Ultimately these contractors didnt  provide  a 
quote so NHBC stepped  in to arrange the investigations. So I cannot  fairly attribute this 
period of the claim as an avoidable delay.  
From reviewing the subsequent timeline  of events I can see NHBC followed a process of 
elimination and relied  on the updated opinion of the appointed experts  in order to furnish  
further investigations. This ultimately  led to the true cause and scope of the problem 
becoming apparent  around November 2018. And whilst I appreciate this part of the claim 
took around 14 months to conclude, I dont think NHBC  were  in a position  to conclude the 
claim any sooner or offer a settlement figure  to Mr R any earlier  than it did. I say this 
because the complexity  of the claim meant there  were a number of insured and non-insured 
areas of water damage,  including  pre-existing and ongoing leaks. Therefore I think  it was 
reasonable for NHBC to explore any possible overlaps of liability  with other  parties such  as 
Mr Rs home  insurer as part of the overall  claim investigation.
I acknowledge that both Mr R and S have said the problem was likely structural  from the 
outset and NHBC shouldve carried out more thorough  investigations to identify  the cause of 
the ingress. But the evidence shows that the conclusions  NHBC reached in initially declining 
the claim werent unreasonable  they were based  on the surveyors  reports following their 
investigations. And once it became apparent that there  was a likely different cause for the 
ingress NHBC re-engaged with the claim. So I cant fairly say that this period of time caused  
damage which NHBC should be liable for outside of its settlement terms.
Overall, having carefully considered everything here, Im not persuaded that the overall time 
taken to investigate  the cause of the ingress has contributed to any additional damage which 
can be considered  separate or outside  of the terms of the settlement Mr R has already 
received. So Im not going to require  NHBC to pay anything further here.
Additional damage
Ive next considered if there are any issues  which fall outside the scope of the settlement, 
such as any damage which can clearly be attributed to a separate  event, and which  isnt 
linked to the underlying defect being claimed  for.
Mr R has shown that NHBCs  contractors clearly damaged the jacuzzi  pipe and our 
investigator was persuaded on the balance  of the evidence that the same  contractors  were  
responsible for damaging Mr Rs pool cover. NHBC has now accepted these costs so this 
aspect of the additional damage is no longer in dispute. As such  I will make the same award 
as recommended by our investigator and require  NHBC to reimburse Mr R for the 
reasonable costs  associated  with repairing the jacuzzi  pipe (invoiced at £1,150)  and the pool 
cover.
Ref: DRN41234487Mr Rs said that NHBCs  contractors caused approximately £30,000 worth  of damage to the 
pool pumps, filtration  system, cover and motors following their investigations. But following 
further requests  for information  Mr R has not provided our service with further evidence  to 
substantiate either these  costs or the actual damage caused. 
I have seen an invoice  provided by a contractor for reinstatement works to the jacuzzi  area,  
but this was dated May 2017 and an accompanying note seems  to indicate these costs  were 
being met by Mr Rs home insurer. But in any event, Im persuaded that much  of the repair  
work listed here can be fairly attributed to either investigating the cause of the ingress  or 
linked to damage caused by the defect.  So on balance its likely that some, if not all of this 
scope would fall under the terms of NHBCs settlement.
In order to uphold  this point in Mr Rs favour,  Id need to see some firm evidence of the 
specific damage caused  similar  to whats been  shown to prove  the damage to the jacuzzi  
pipe and pool cover. And I would also need  to see how this was clearly different from any 
damage linked to the underlying defect  in the property.
Based on the information I have from this period in the claim, I havent seen anything  further 
to verify these additional damage costs, so I dont uphold this part of Mr Rs complaint.
Compensation
NHBC has agreed a total of £1,300  compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
since its last final response  letter in November 2016.  In its letter, NHBC attributes this mainly 
to the delays in some  of the investigations  and the distress  caused by its contractors 
damaging the jacuzzi  pipe.
In determining whether  this offer of compensation is fair Ive considered  a number of factors.  
Ive looked at any avoidable  delays  in the duration  of the claim, and NHBCs overall  service  
 which  includes the actions of its contractors. Ive also considered  the amount of time Mr R 
spent in dealing  with the various issues in proportion to the overall complexity  of the claim.  
And Ive taken into account  that Mr Rs son represented him for the majority  of this claim  
as my powers mean  I can only tell a business  to pay compensation for distress and 
inconvenience experienced  by their customer who in this case  was Mr R, the policyholder.
In conclusion, I can see that the investigations required by NHBC to identify the main  cause 
of the water  ingress  were extensive.  The extent  of the ingress wasnt  clear  when the matter  
was referred back to NHBC in 2017  and as such it was required to undertake a series of 
works in order to eliminate other possible causes. This included  works to ascertain how 
much of the water ingress was ongoing,  how much was linked to a failure of the water  
proofing, and how much  was due to historical  or localised leaks. Ive not seen anything  
which suggested this process took substantially longer than it shouldve  done and in any 
event, Ive also not seen anything which shouldve put NHBC on earlier notice as to the full 
extent of its liability under the Buildmark  policy.
In order to recommend  further compensation here, Id need to be satisfied that any delays by 
NHBC significantly worsened  the issues being caused by the underlying defect for which  it 
has already settled. And given the extensive scope of the investigations and actions 
required, Im not persuaded that it did so.
Ref: DRN41234488Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied that NHBCs offer of compensation fairly reflects  
the distress and inconvenience  caused  to Mr R from any delays, and the actions  of the 
contractors in damaging  the jacuzzi pipe and pool cover.  So I wont  be requiring NHBC to 
pay any more compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  this complaint about National House-Building 
Council. In order to put things right, National House-Building Council must:
Settle Mr Rs invoice  for the damaged jacuzzi  pipe of £1,150;
Pay any invoices which can be linked to reasonable costs incurred by Mr R for 
replacing the damaged pool cover;
Pay 8% simple interest on these sums, from the date each invoice was paid, to the 
date of settlement.  *
*If National  House-Building Council considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs 
to deduct income  tax from that interest, it should  tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should  
also give Mr R a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2021.
Dan Prevett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4123448