K820x#14complaint
Ms K has complained about  AIG Europe Limiteds  decision to decline her claim for 
accidental death  benefit in respect of her late husband under her personal  accident 
insurance policy.
background
Ms K took out a personal accident  insurance  policy. The policy  would pay a range of cash  
sums if either  she or her husband,  Mr S, were to be permanently disabled,  be hospitalised or 
die as a result of an accident.   
In 2015, Mr S sadly died while in hospital. She made  a claim under the policy.
AIG declined  the claim as it didnt believe the death  met the policys  eligibility criteria.
Ms K complained about the decision and said she had been  misled about these criteria at 
the time she took out the policy.
AIG issued  a final response letter in March 2016  concerning the sale of the policy  and the 
handling of the claim  up to that point. It was satisfied that Ms K had been given sufficient 
information about the policy at the time it was taken out. However, it acknowledged it hadnt 
allowed Ms K a proper  opportunity to make  her claim and invited her to do so.
Ms K submitted further information. AIG declined the claim on the basis  of the available 
evidence. It said unless  Ms K gave  it permission to obtain further medical evidence it 
couldnt assess the claim any further.
Ms K was unhappy  at AIGs position and so referred her complaint to us. She complained  
that the claim had been declined; that the policy literature was unclear; and that AIGs 
request for permission  to have access to Mr Ss medical records was unreasonably broad in 
scope.
In April 2018, an ombudsman issued a decision that the element  of Ms Ks complaint about 
the clarity  of the policy literature couldnt  be considered by this service because Ms K had 
been too late in referring  the matter  to us.
Our investigator recommended that Ms Ks complaint on the other two points should not be 
upheld. In her opinion, it had been  fair for AIG to decline  the claim and its request to access  
Mr Ss medical records if she wished it to investigate  further had been reasonable.
Ms K didnt accept the investigators  findings. She referred to advertising materials from the 
time of the sale of the policy which she considered implied her claim should be payable. She 
said Mr S had died because he had asphyxiated  after vomiting, and that these  
circumstances met the policys  eligibility criteria for benefit to be paid; she considered that 
underlying medical  conditions  which had been  noted  on the death certificate were irrelevant 
for the purposes  of her claim. She considered  that sufficient medical evidence had already 
been provided to AIG and the permission which it had sought to access Mr Ss medical 
records was far too wide and contrary to advice issued by the Information Commissioners  
Office and General  Medical Council.
Ref: DRN41898772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, despite  my natural 
sympathy for Ms K over the loss of her husband, I dont  uphold this complaint.  I shall explain 
why.
The ombudsman who issued the decision in April 2018 has already  decided that this service 
cant consider Ms Ks complaint about the clarity  of the policy  literature. This means  I cant  
take into account the advertising materials from the time of sale which  Ms K thinks were 
misleading. Instead, I shall take into account  only the policy  document  itself.
The policy states  that it will pay benefit if an Insured Person has an Accident  and suffers  
Bodily Injury which alone  causes  death.
The policy describes Accident as a sudden and unexpected event which  results  in Bodily 
Injury to an Insured  Person.
The policy describes Bodily  Injury as physical damage caused  by an Accident.
The policy further  states that Bodily Injury is not covered if it results from sickness or 
disease.
This means  that for Ms Ks claim to succeed,  she needs to show that Mr S died solely as a 
result of physical damage caused by a sudden  and unexpected event and which didnt  result  
from sickness or disease.
Mr Ss death  certificate gives  the cause of death  as follows:
I (a) Aspiration
  (b) Non-Alcoholic Steatohepatitis Cirrhosis
II Type Two Diabetes
The way a doctor is required to complete a death certificate is to record  the immediate cause 
of death at I (a) and then go back  through  the sequence of events that led to the death  in the 
rest of section I, finishing with the underlying root cause  which  caused all the conditions  in 
the lines above. Section II is where  the doctor should record  any other conditions 
contributing to the death but not directly related to the cause.
This means  that, according to the doctor who completed the death certificate, the underlying  
root cause of Mr Ss death was his non-alcoholic  steatohepatitis cirrhosis and this led to his 
aspiration which was the immediate  cause.  His diabetes also contributed  to his death but not 
directly.
Ms K also provided a letter from Mr Ss treating consultants. This said:
[Mr S] had advanced liver disease,  kidney disease  and diabetes.  He died during  a hospital 
admission with acute  kidney injury. The cause of death was aspiration resulting in cardiac 
arrest. His death  was sudden; it was not expected  that he would die during that hospital 
admission, although the long-term  prognosis  was unfavourable.
Ref: DRN41898773He aspirated because of general weakness in the context of his liver disease, kidney 
disease and diabetes.
On the basis of the evidence available, I dont think Mr Ss death met the policys  criteria  for 
benefit to be paid. His death  may arguably  have been sudden and unexpected but according 
to the death certificate it resulted from his liver disease. And the letter from his treating 
consultants appears  to confirm this. The policy doesnt cover  bodily injury resulting from 
sickness or disease. I therefore think it was reasonable for AIG to decline the claim.
AIG offered to consider  the claim further in case there was a chance  it could be paid. I think 
this was reasonable. But to do that, it needed  Ms Ks permission to enable it to access  
Mr Ss medical records. It is normal for an insurance  company  to seek  this type of 
permission and I have  no reason to suppose AIG would use the permission to obtain 
information beyond  that which it considered necessary to consider the eligibility of the claim. 
AIG isnt obliged to seek further information because the onus is on Ms K to prove  the 
eligibility of her claim  and on the basis of the information currently available, as Ive already 
explained, Im satisfied AIG is entitled to decline the claim. But while  I acknowledge Ms Ks 
concerns, I dont think the nature  of the permission it has sought is unreasonable. Ms K isnt 
obliged to give her permission but, unless  she is able to provide AIG with further  evidence  to 
counter the evidence  currently available, she unfortunately will have to accept that the claim 
wont be paid.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4189877