K820x#14complaint
Mrs K says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs K bought the policy to protect her repayments  when she took out a loan at a meeting in 
1996 in one of the banks branches. The loan included an amount to pay for the policy.  And 
it provided Mrs K with cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs K disagreed so the complaint  was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs K says she did not know PPI was on the loan, it was added without her 
knowledge. The bank  disputes this. I cant know what  was said in the meeting and 
Lloyds no longer has Mrs Ks paperwork from the sale. This isnt surprising or 
unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. 
It has however sent in a sample of the type of loan agreement it says Mrs K would 
have completed and signed.  This sets out the cost of the PPI separately under the 
heading Optional Loan Repayment Protection. And lower down the form, with the 
same heading, the options to select or decline PPI were set out with equal  
prominence. So, overall I think its most  likely Lloyds made Mrs K aware she had a 
choice about buying PPI, and she chose to take it out. I can understand she might 
not remember this given how long ago the sale was.
  
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs K and I know she feels strongly that she did not 
need it. But I think it seems to have been suitable for her based on what Ive seen  of 
her circumstances at the time.  Mrs K was entitled to just statutory sick pay but the 
PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this - for up to the term of the loan for accident  
and sickness claims and for up to 12 months  for unemployment. 
Mrs K told us she had around  £5,000 in savings  at the time, but the PPI wouldve 
allowed her to use these  to cover other living expenses whilst  not working, or to keep 
them intact for her future needs.  Mrs K told us her income didnt cover  any priority 
household expenses, but she may have faced increased living costs if she was sick 
long term, or had an accident,  so the cover  could still have been useful. Mrs K also 
said her partner would have helped her, but thats not suitable alternative protection. 
Its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change.  The loan was in Mrs Ks 
name so she was solely responsible for making the monthly repayments.  
So, overall, I think the PPI wouldve been useful for Mrs K if she was sick or lost her 
job. 
Ref: DRN40339242The cash  price of the policy and the monthly  cost were shown on the agreement  that 
its most  likely Mrs K signed  but the interest payable wasnt set out separately. But 
as the PPI was competitively priced  and apparently affordable, I dont think Mrs K 
wouldve made a different  decision if shed been  given clearer cost information. The 
missing interest payment was under 50p a month, so it seems unlikely knowing this 
would have made a difference  to Mrs Ks decision. And given how long the policy 
couldve paid out for, if Mrs K made  a successful claim she couldve got back quite a 
bit more than she paid for it.
Mrs K wouldve  only got back a limited refund of the PPI premium if she cancelled the 
policy early.  She did do this, but I havent seen anything from the time the policy  was 
sold to suggest  she thought shed  repay  the loan early. So I dont think this meant the 
policy wasnt right for her.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But Mrs K 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things (such  as type of 
employment contract or pre-existing medical conditions). So I think its unlikely she 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided   overall, 
I think she would still have taken  out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mrs K has lost out because  of any problems  with the sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs K to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4033924