K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says HSBC  UK Bank plc (HSBC) mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in 1997.
background
Mrs T took out PPI with a Flexiloan in March 1997. The PPI policy  included  accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover.  The policy cost 8.38p per £1 of Mrs Ts monthly 
repayment amount  and wouldve covered her loan repayments for up to 12 months if she 
became too ill to work or was made redundant.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mrs T disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ts case.  
After reviewing all of the information provided in this complaint, I am not upholding Mrs Ts 
complaint. I explain why below.
HSBC arent  able to confirm how they think they sold the policy. Mrs T says she applied  for 
the Flexiloan during  a meeting with the bank, so Ive assessed the complaint on that basis. 
Its not surprising  that HSBC doesnt have the actual documents for Mrs Ts sale  these 
events occurred over 20 years ago and the PPI was cancelled  over 16 years  ago. Nor is that 
a reason, in itself, to criticise HSBC. In cases  like this, where the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I have  to make my decision on the balance of probabilities   that is, to decide 
what is most likely  to have happened.
Based on our understanding of how these  sales were normally conducted  it seems  most 
likely that HSBC would have secured Mrs Ts agreement to the PPI before  putting  it in place. 
And given  the length of time thats past I havent seen any evidence  that clearly  shows that 
HSBC failed to do that or to make it clear Mrs T had a choice about taking the PPI. So, whilst  
acknowledging that things could have  happened differently, I think its more likely that HSBC 
wouldve made Mrs T aware that the PPI was optional  and that she chose to take it, even  
though she may not remember that now, many  years later. 
I dont know what was said about PPI when Mrs T completed paperwork in the branch. The 
parties cant say if advice was given.  But even  if it was, I dont  think  the policy  was 
unsuitable. Thats because:
Mrs T was eligible  for the policy. And wasnt affected by the policy  exclusions or 
limitations.
I think the policy couldve been useful to her. Mrs T told us shed have got good sick 
pay for the first six weeks but that it would have dropped significantly after that. And 
that after 12 weeks she would  have had no sick pay. The PPI wouldve paid out for 
up to 12 months if Mrs T couldnt work due to accident, sickness  or unemployment. 
Ref: DRN41490052And this wouldve been  on top of any payments from her employer. So I think  the 
policy wouldve been useful to her. 
The policy cost for the benefit  was comparable to other  policies offering similar 
benefits at the time. And Ive not seen  anything to suggest it was unaffordable (Mrs T 
afforded the policy  for several  years).
 
HSBC also had to give Mrs T clear information  about the policy  so she could make an 
informed choice about buying  it. Its possible that HSBC couldve done  more to provide  clear 
information about aspects of the policy. But, for the same reasons that I dont  think the policy  
was unsuitable  for Mrs T, I dont think clearer information wouldve put Mrs T off buying the 
policy. Overall,  I think Mrs T would  still have taken the policy out if shed been  properly 
advised and informed. So, she hasnt lost out due to anything  HSBC did wrong.  
I know it will come as a disappointment to Mrs T, but I dont think  she has been  mis-sold PPI 
by HSBC. Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But HSBC  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T because:  
When the policy was sold,  HSBC expected to get a high level of commission and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mrs T about that. Because  HSBC 
didnt tell Mrs T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
HSBC has to pay back to Mrs T any commission and profit share  it got that was more than 50% of 
the PPI premium. HSBC  should also pay back to Mrs T any extra  interest she paid because of that.
HSBC should  pay back to Mrs T the extra  she paid each month because the commission  and profit 
share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. HSBC should  also pay Mrs T 8%* simple 
interest on each payment.
 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs T can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN41490053my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs T.
But HSBC  UK Bank plc does have to pay back to Mrs T any commission and profit share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or reject 
my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4149005