K821x#15complaint
Mr J says Elevate Credit International Limited (ECI) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 6 instalment loans which ECI provided to Mr J between September 
2015 and April 2016. Mr J complained  the loans were not affordable or sustainable, so he 
concluded ECI had lent to him irresponsibly. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Js complaint saying  only loan 6 was lent irresponsibly 
and was unsustainable for him. Our adjudicator suggested  in his letter dated 22 July 2019 
that the following redress was to be calculated  and paid by ECI as follows:
You shouldn't  have given Mr J loan 6.
A) You should add together  the total of the repayments made by Mr J towards interest,  fees 
and charges on these  loans,  including payments  made  to a third party  where applicable, but 
not including  anything you have already refunded.
B) You should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual  payments  made  by
Mr J which  were considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr J originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint  is settled.
C) You should pay Mr J the total of "A" plus "B".
D) The overall pattern  of Mr Js borrowing for loan 6 means any information recorded about  
this is adverse, so you should remove this loan entirely from Mr J's credit file. If you have 
sold any of the loans you should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest.  You should give
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax you've deducted, if he asks for one.
Mr J didnt make any comments about our adjudicators view however, ECI recently agreed 
with part of our adjudicators view and made a gesture  of goodwill to settle the complaint. It 
calculated that Mr J borrowed a total principle amount of £500. He had repaid £752, so ECI 
suggested it would pay the difference of £252 to Mr J and it would update  Mr Js credit file. 
Our adjudicator sent ECIs offer to Mr J and told him the calculation was not strictly in line 
with our approach  as it did not include the payment  of 8% per year simple interest. Mr J did 
not respond to our letter, so we assumed he disagreed with ECIs offer to settle  and the 
complaint was passed to me to look at again. None  of the parties  has commented on loans 1 
to 5, presumably because  they have accepted the complaint about  those  loans has been 
rejected. So my decision will only be looking at ECIs offer on loan 6. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN40978232I dont need to decide here whether the loans  were made irresponsibly and were  later 
unsustainable for Mr J because ECI has recently made an offer to settle the matter  in 
respect of loan 6. I have  looked carefully at ECIs offer, but I do not think  it is in line with our 
approach which was set out clearly by our adjudicator in his letter dated 22 July 2019. 
The key issue then is whether ECI has done  enough to address  the complaint. ECI has 
looked at Mr Js complaint  and accepted  it may not have calculated or assessed  its findings 
correctly when it received  the complaint. On receiving our adjudicators  view,  ECI took steps  
to check its findings  and it made a revised offer to settle. ECI offered Mr J the sum of £252 
and agreed to amend his credit file. However,  this is not in line with our approach and so I 
think ECI should do more  to put things right for Mr J by adding  interest  as our adjudicator 
suggested in his view.
Taking everything into consideration, I do not think ECIs gesture of goodwill is a fair way to 
settle this complaint, so I am going to increase the compensation for Mr J which  will bring 
ECIs offer in line with our approach. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Elevate Credit International Limited should do more to settle  this 
complaint. Elevate Credit International Limited should do the following:
Pay Mr J the sum of £252  which it recently offered to do;
Pay 8% a year simple interest  on the sum of £252 calculated from the date Mr J 
originally made  the payments on loan 6, to the date the complaint is settled;
remove all mention  of loan 6 entirely from Mr Js  credit file;
If loan 6 has been sold, then Elevate Credit International Limited should  ask the debt 
purchaser to remove all mention  of loan 6 entirely from Mr Js credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Elevate Credit  International Limited to deduct  tax from 
this interest. Elevate  Credit International Limited should give Mr J a certificate showing how 
much tax has been deducted, if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4097823