K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading  as Egg at the time) mis-sold  her payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mrs W applied  for an Egg credit card in June 2003 and PPI was added to her account from 
then until her policy was cancelled, which Barclays says was in 2012. Id like to make  it clear 
that my decision here relates only to the Egg card that ended  in 1007. I understand Mrs W 
got another Egg card subsequently and her complaint about the sale of PPI on this later card 
is being looked at by us separately.
Mrs W says PPI was added  to her account  automatically and she couldnt  have  continued 
with her application if she removed it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Ws complaint didnt  uphold it. Mrs W disagrees and so 
her complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Egg needed to make  it clear to Mrs W she had a choice about PPI and get her agreement  to 
it. Egg doesnt have  a copy  of Mrs Ws actual  completed application. So Ive considered 
what we know more  widely about  how Egg sold PPI online around this time. Ive also seen 
screenshots I think are likely to be similar  to what Mrs W saw at the time. These show Mrs W 
wouldve had to accept  or decline  PPI before continuing with her application. Egg has also 
shown us the data captured from Mrs Ws application and it shows PPI on the account.  As 
PPI was added to the account, I think its likely at the time Mrs W chose the PPI knowing she 
didnt have to.
I know this isnt how Mrs W remembers things  she says she couldnt remove the PPI if she 
wanted to continue with her card application. While I dont doubt the honesty of Mrs Ws 
recollections, she hasnt  (quite understandably)  been able to give us any other  evidence  to 
back up what she says. And given what we know about Eggs  sales  process at the time as 
Ive already outlined,  I think  its likely Egg followed  its normal sales  process and so the PPI 
was added to Mrs Ws account  because she chose it.
Mrs W says Egg recommended the PPI to her. But since this was an online sale,  I dont think  
Egg made her a personal recommendation  based  on her particular circumstances and 
needs. So I dont  think it needed to check if the PPI was right for Mrs W. But it did have to 
make sure Mrs W got the information she needed to make  that decision herself in an 
informed way. 
Its possible the information Egg gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been (including its true cost and the things it didnt cover). But I think,  as Ive said,  Mrs W 
chose to take out the PPI. And, with the limited sick pay Mrs W has told us shed have got, I 
Ref: DRN45839862think it couldve been of use to her  it wouldve  helped with her card repayments  for up to 
12 months if shed claimed successfully  for unemployment, accident or sickness.  Based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like Mrs W was affected by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  so it would have  been  useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think clearer 
information about the PPI wouldve put Mrs W off taking it out. 
This means  Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W. 
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because: 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
 so it shouldve  told Mrs W about that. Because Egg didnt tell Mrs W, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs W any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4583986