K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2008. Mr T says Santander Cards  UK Limited mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ts 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.
Mr Ts representative  disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ts. I havent set out that detailed information  
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ts complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided Santander Cards should have 
disclosed the commission it received - but that Santander Cards  offer to refund some of the 
cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused  is fair in the circumstances. Ive 
summarised my reasons for each  of these conclusions below. 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think Santander Cards made  it clear  that Mr T didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
he chose to take it out. I say this because Mr T applied for the credit card and policy  
online. The online process required an applicant to tick a box to select PPI, having read 
a brief description about the policy. The application system notes have recorded that Mr 
T ticked  the box and then typed his name  and date to confirm  his request for cover.
Although Mr T recalled taking out the credit card during a meeting and being  given  
advice about buying the PPI, he actually applied online, so there would have  been  no 
input from any member of staff and Im therefore  satisfied that this was a non-advised 
Ref: DRN41413922sale. As Santander Cards  didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr T it didnt have  to check  that 
the PPI was right or suitable  for him. But it did have to give Mr T enough clear and timely 
information so he could decide  for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Santander Cards  gave Mr T about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have  been. But Ive found  that he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr T  for example he 
wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover.  And it wasnt too 
dissimilar to what he reasonably thought  he was buying from the information he was 
given. There were  also no additional  restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr T would have declined 
the cover  had Santander Cards  done  anything  more.
Overall, I consider that Mr T would have still taken  out PPI. The policy  was sufficiently close  
to what its likely he thought he was getting  and I think  the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ts representative  has raised a number  of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant Santander  Cards  should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mr Ts representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts  and 
circumstances of Mr Ts individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ts particular case.  But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  Santander  Cards doesnt  have  to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Santander Cards should have disclosed the commission it 
received and that Santander Cards offer to refund  some of the cost of PPI to compensate  
for the unfairness  caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Ref: DRN41413923Santander Cards didnt tell Mr T about the high levels of commission and profit share  paid in 
this case. So taking into account:  
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion  in that case  that the non-
disclosure of commission could  lead to an unfair relationship;
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
-the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Santander Cards and Mr T was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Santander  Cards didnt tell him about the high levels  of commission and profit 
share in this case 
I dont think Santander  Cards acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with Mr T because it 
failed to disclose  the high commission  and profit  share.
redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.
Mr Ts representative  has made a number  of representations about this part of the complaint  
including the impact of the Plevin  judgment  and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr T should  get back all the money  he paid for the policy  
because: Santander Cards failed to tell Mr T about the high commission  and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions  and exclusions on cover. Because they 
say that meant the policy was poor value, I should  find that Mr T wouldnt have taken out the 
policy had they known about  the level of commission  and he should receive a refund of all 
the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy  had the 
commission been disclosed; 
-A court would have a range of powers available under section  140 B to remedy  the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure  of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order  a return of all the premiums  paid or conclude that a 
consumer would  not have purchased the policy had the commission  been  disclosed; 
and
-The FCA considered  the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge  
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules  and guidance  
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN41413924about mis-selling (hence the two-step  approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed  commission and any remedy  caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr T in order  to remedy the unfairness caused  by Santander Cards not disclosing the 
high level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
-The FCAs guidance usually  requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit  share  above 50% of the policys  cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused  by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
-refunding some  of the money  paid for the PPI policy  in this way is an order  which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make  under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit  Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
-I am not, as Mr Ts representative suggests,  driven to conclude that he wouldnt  have  
purchased the policy but for Santander  Cards failure to disclose the level of commission  
for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Santander Cards to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs 
guidance and return some of the money  Mr T paid for his PPI policy.  
I consider this fairly removes the source  of the unfairness. This is because  it leaves Mr T 
with the policy Ive concluded above he would still have taken out if Santander Cards had 
done everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share  levels.
So I consider that Santander Cards offer of payment  of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy  costs  (plus associated 
interest where applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the 
circumstances.
 
Ref: DRN41413925my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I do not uphold  the mis-sale element of Mr Ts complaint  or make any award  in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that 
Santander Cards UK Limited should  pay Mr T an amount equivalent to the commission  and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated  interest where  
applicable) if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 September  2021.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4141392