K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ws credit card account when he applied for the card in person at a branch  of the bank.  
up.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case. 
.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint because:
 I think BOS  made Mr W aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it  
although I can understand why he can no longer remember  this. Ive seen  the credit 
card application  Mr W signed,  which has yes and no boxes to say whether Mr W 
wanted PPI. The section says if you want  these services which I think  made it clear 
it was Mr Ws choice. The yes box is completed.
 BOS recommended the PPI to Mr W, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. 
 Its possible the information BOS gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  
have been. But Mr W chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. He was not affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations  and the policy  
was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr W would 
have made a different decision if better  information had been provided. On balance I 
think he would still have taken  out the policy.
Ive taken into account Mr Ws comments, including what hes said about not realising he 
had PPI. Ive seen some of his card statements and the PPI premiums are shown  and 
described on those. If Mr W didnt  know  what  they were for Id think  hed ask for an 
explanation, but I cant see he did that. Mr W says he was made redundant whist paying for 
the PPI. Its possible the insurer  would consider a retrospective claim if Mr W has the 
relevant evidence to support this. 
Ref: DRN46717482my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2019. 
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4671748