K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Capital One (Europe) plc has unfairly registered  a default on his credit 
file.
background
Mr C says in 2014  he agreed a temporary  short term plan with Capital One but was unable 
to make an agreed final lump sum payment in December 2014. He says he was told that for 
a long term plan to be agreed  then the account would have to be defaulted. Mr C says the 
implications of a default were not explained  to him and he doesnt recall receiving a default 
notice. He says he kept to the terms of both plans and its unfair for a default to be registered  
in those circumstances.
Capital One says it agreed a short term plan with Mr C in August 2014  for £80 a month and 
a lump sum payment in December 2014.  It says Mr C told it he couldnt  afford  the lump  sum 
payment and other options were discussed  with him including a long term plan. Capital One 
says it told Mr C that a default would be registered  if he wished to be put on this plan and 
wrote to him about  it and sent him the default notice.
Mr C had brought his case to us and our adjudicator thought that the default  was correctly  
applied and that Capital One hadnt acted unfairly.  She thought Capital Ones notes from 
2014 and 2015 made it clear that it explained what would happen if Mr C accepted  the long 
term plan. She also thought that he had been sent information on the plan and had agreed 
to it. The adjudicator thought that Mr C wouldve been in a worse position by not agreeing to 
the plan.
Mr C didnt accept that view and says in a similar  case  we decided in favour  of the consumer  
and that sets a precedent. He also says he didnt miss a payment and the relationship 
between him and Capital One hadnt  broken down and so the account  shouldnt have been 
defaulted. Mr C wants the default removed and doesnt accept that by agreeing a long term 
plan then a default should be registered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for the same  reasons. I realise Mr C will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels  about  whats  happened.
Ive looked at Capital Ones notes and the account statements and I can see that Mr C was 
in financial difficulties and that resulted in the short term plan in 2014. In that sort of situation 
I would expect Capital  One to have  treated those difficulties  positively and sympathetically.  
And Im satisfied it did by agreeing the plan and by stopping interest or fees. I appreciate  that 
Mr C was unable to pay the agreed  lump sum payment in December 2014. And I accept that 
Mr C told Capital One that and kept in contact with it as well as making  regular payments.
Im satisfied that Capital  One explained the longer term options to Mr C and explained the 
consequences of entering into a long term plan. Im also satisfied it told Mr C that a default 
would be registered  under that plan and also provided that information in writing  to him. I 
also find that a default notice was later sent to Mr C and that he was told what  a default 
meant. And that Mr C agreed to the plan.
Ref: DRN49487482I appreciate that Mr C says that as he kept to the terms of the long term plan then a default 
shouldnt have been registered. But I think there is a significant difference between a short 
term and long term plan.  A short term plan as Mr C previously agreed is designed to bring  
the account up to date.  In this case Mr C couldnt do so and I think it likely that if the a new 
long term plan hadnt been  agreed  then interest and fees wouldve been applied again  and 
made Mr Cs financial  position  much worse. Im satisfied that a credit file should be an 
accurate reflection of what took place  and so I dont think Capital One has made a mistake 
by registering a default here. Im satisfied that the relationship had broken down between  the 
parties as Mr C was no longer able to keep to the terms and conditions of the original 
agreement when the account  was first opened.
I know that Mr C has provided me with details of a case he says I should follow.  The 
adjudicator has explained  how we approach cases on an individual basis.  But I make  it clear 
that for the reasons Ive explained I dont think the circumstances are the same in any event.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4948748