K821x#15complaint
Ms W and Mr A complain that Everyday Loans Limited mis-sold them  payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  with two loans.
background
Briefly:
In 2011 and again in 2012 Ms W and Mr A took out PPI at the same  time as taking out a 
loan during a meeting. I understand there was a phone call too  but it appears that the PPI 
was sold on both occasions during a meeting.
The PPI policies provided cover for both Ms W and Mr A in the event either  of them  died 
during the loan terms  the outstanding loan balance wouldve been  repaid. Neither  policy 
provided cover for accident, sickness or unemployment  despite what  the adjudicator said.
Each policys cost was worked  out as a percentage of the outstanding loan balance,  so at 
the outset Everyday Loans quoted an average cost. In 2011 the quoted  PPI average cost 
was around £18 a month and in 2012 it was around  £33 a month.
At the time of the sales Ms W and Mr A were  employed and they both said they were entitled  
to sick pay  Ms W said around three months full pay and Mr A said six months full pay. Ms 
W said her mother wouldve helped them out with their payments  if needed,  and she said 
she had a medical condition at the time. Mr A was in good health.  
Everyday loans records appeared  to indicate that the 2012  loan was repaid early  before 
the term end date.
I issued my provisional decision of April 2020 and both parties  have seen and provided their 
comments to it. And both parties said they accepted my decision.
While Im mindful that Everyday Loans  has accepted my provisional decision and theres  
nothing new for me to consider,  in the interest  of completeness Ive decided to nevertheless  
go ahead  and issue my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. My reasons are set out in 
detail below.
2011 sale of PPI
Ive decided not to uphold  this part of the complaint. And I say this for the following reasons:
did Ms W and Mr A have a choice  about PPI?
Ref: DRN40784572I can see that Ms W and Mr A say they didnt think theyd get the loan unless they took out 
PPI  they say they felt pressured to take it out. Ive listened carefully  to what theyve said 
about this.
And having done so, Im not persuaded that Ive seen enough evidence to support what  they 
say happened. 
Everyday Loans  has provided copies of the paperwork used during the sale of the loan and 
PPI to Ms W and Mr A. Looking at this I can see firstly that the loan agreement  had a 
separate section  for PPI, which required a tick in one of two equally prominent boxes: I wish 
to purchase Repayment  Protection Insurance  and I do not wish to purchase Repayment 
Protection Insurance. And there is a tick in the first box.
I can Ms W and Mr A say they didnt tick the box themselves. And this isnt perhaps  
surprising given things  happened during a meeting  I expect the adviser  wouldve done  it 
for them. But they signed the overall  agreement,  so I think  they chose to take it out.
I can also see that this section of the agreement also described the policy  as optional and 
this was also reflected  in another document  the Statement of Price - which described PPI 
the same  way and also explicitly  said that it was not a condition  of the loan.
Im mindful too that Ms W and Mr A only took out the life cover  element of PPI. They clearly 
felt able to say they werent interested in and didnt want  the other elements of the cover  
and this is documented as such.  So, it strikes me as unlikely that they felt they didnt have a 
real choice about PPI.
Overall and for the reasons  Ive set out above, I think  Ms W and Mr A chose  to take out PPI 
and they likely did so without undue pressure.
the advice
Everyday Loans  says it recommended the PPI to Ms W and Mr A. So, it needed to ensure it 
was suitable for them.  And based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think 
that it was. For example,  they were  both eligible for the cover; the policy did not exclude 
claims because of or related to Ms Ws medical  condition; and they seem to have had a 
need for cover.
Ms W says she was entitled to death-in-service benefit. And I can see the adviser  recorded  
this. But I think its likely  that if anything  happened to Ms W, Mr A would  need  to use any 
pay-out from Ms Ws employee  benefits to replace her lost income  I think its likely in the 
financial circumstances theyve described that they were relying on both of their incomes  to 
support their living and household expenditure. Its also the case  that Mr A didnt have any 
existing cover.
I can see Ms W has said her mother couldve helped them  out if needed. But I dont consider 
this to be guaranteed means  and I wouldnt have expected the adviser to have  considered it 
as such in giving their advice.
So, in light of the above and because in my view it is generally  suitable to have life cover to 
cover a debt where  there are two parties  financially dependent on each other, I dont think it 
was wrong for Everyday  Loans to have  recommended PPI to Ms W and Mr A.
Ref: DRN40784573the information
I dont think the information  Everyday Loans  gave Ms W and Mr A about the PPI was as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  I say this because unlike the adjudicator, Im not persuaded 
Everyday Loans  clearly and fully explained  the cost of the cover and the impact it had on 
their loan because  of the way it was paid for.
Everyday Loans  gave Ms W and Mr A the average monthly cost of the policy  around £18 - 
as well as the total cost.  But there were other aspects of the cost that I think  Everyday  Loans  
shouldve been  clearer about. In particular,  it shouldve told them  that the way the PPI was 
paid for meant that Ms W and Mr A paid less towards their loan each month   which  affected  
the rate at which their outstanding balance fell over the term of the loan and meant they 
incurred more interest (around  £39 in total and £1.70 each month)  as a result.  
But I dont consider this was a significant amount or that it had much of an impact on Ms W 
and Mr As loan repayment. And in light of Ms W and Mr As circumstances at the time of the 
sale I think the policy couldve  been  useful to them if the insured risk became a reality.  I also 
think it was affordable. 
So, in weighing  up the real costs of the policy and the effect  on their loan - as well as the 
benefit it provided  I think  Ms W and Mr A wouldve still gone ahead and taken out the 
policy had Everyday Loans explained  things more  clearly.  
This means  Everyday Loan doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms W and 
Mr A.
But Everyday Loans will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms W and Mr A  if its not 
already done so - because: 
Everyday got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms W and Mr A about that. Because  Everyday  Loans  
didnt tell Ms W and Mr A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Everyday Loans  has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
2012 sale of PPI
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. And I say this for the following reasons.
Ive looked at all of the information I have from the sale and I dont  think Everyday Loans 
was clear enough about what  the costs of taking out PPI were and how they affected Ms W 
and Mr A. 
As I described above, the PPI premiums were calculated as a percentage of Ms W and Mr 
As outstanding loan balance. So, they were higher at the beginning of the loan than they 
were at the end. This meant that Ms W and Mr A paid less towards their loan. As a result,  
they incurred more interest  (around £270  in total and £5.89  each  month)  and would also 
have been left with a higher outstanding balance had they repaid the loan before the end of 
its term 
Ref: DRN40784574Given the length of the loan (48 months),  why Ms W and Mr A took it out (they  were 
consolidating their borrowings) and their circumstances  at the time,  I think there was a 
reasonable prospect that they wouldve repaid the loan early   and I understand this is what 
Ms W and Mr A ultimately ended  up doing.
I think in this particular  case, the additionally incurred interest was more  significant, so had 
Everyday Loans  made  the costs of taking  out PPI and repaying the loan early clearer, I dont 
think Ms W and Mr A in their particular  circumstances wouldve more  likely than not still 
taken it out.
This means  I think  Ms W and Mr A have lost out as a result.
what the business needs  to do
2011 PPI sale:
If its not done so already, Everyday Loans  has to pay back to Ms W and Mr A any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium (Everyday 
Loans should pay back to Ms W any extra interest they paid because of that.)  Everyday 
Loans should also pay Ms W and Mr A 8% simple interest on the extra paid each month.
2012 sale:
Ms W and Mr A paid more in interest  than they shouldve  done,  and their loan balance was 
higher when they paid off their loan than it shouldve been.  So Everyday should:
Work  out and pay Ms W and Mr A the difference  between  what  they paid each month  
on the loan and what they wouldve paid without PPI.  
Work  out and pay Ms W and Mr A the difference  between  what  it cost to pay off the 
loan and what it would have cost to pay off the loan without  PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Ms W and Mr A paid from when they paid it 
until they get it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Everyday  Loans  has already paid Ms W and Mr A an amount to compensate  them 
for high commission and profit share  they paid with their premiums, then Everyday 
Loans can deduct this from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Ms W and Mr A a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that, in relation  to the 2011 PPI sale, the 
policy wasnt mis-sold   so Everyday Loans Limited does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Ms W and Mr A.
But Everyday Loans Limited does have  to pay back to Ms W and Mr A any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium   if its not already done so.
Ref: DRN40784575And in relation to the 2012 PPI sale, Ive decided  to uphold this part of the complaint and I 
direct Everyday Loans Limited to pay Ms W and Mr A compensation in line with what  the 
business needs to do section above.  
I make  no other award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4078457