K820x#14complaint
Ms O complains that when she asked  HSBC UK Bank Plc to transfer money to an overseas 
account the amount received was less than the amount shed  sent. Shed like to understand 
the reason for the discrepancy.
background
Ms O says she was unable to complete a transfer of funds from her HSBC bank account to 
an account she held overseas. So she asked  HSBC to do the transfer for her in branch. She 
asked for the transfer to be done  in the overseas currency  - which Ill refer to in this decision 
as Overseas Currency.  She found out she had to pay a higher charge for doing this in 
branch than if shed  done it online.  And she also found out that the amount she received in 
her overseas  account was 18.50  less in the Overseas  Currency than the amount shed 
transferred.
She asked  the receiving  bank about  the discrepancy. She says she was told 15.00 in 
Overseas Currency had been  deducted as an incoming transfer fee before it received  the 
funds. This left a discrepancy of 3.50. Ms O says she wasnt told about these charges when 
she made her transfer at the branch.
Ms O complained to HSBC. HSBC explained  in its final response letter that when a payment 
is made overseas  both the sending bank  and receiving bank normally charge for the 
services they provide  and the sending  party  choses  the fees they are willing to pay. HSBC 
agreed to refund £9 itd charged Ms O for sending the payment and it also awarded  £50 to 
cover intermediary and beneficiary  charges Ms O explained had been applied.
Ms O was unhappy that HSBC still hadnt  explained the reason for the discrepancy so she 
referred her complaint  to this service.  When our investigator looked  into Ms Os complaint he 
didnt recommend that it should be upheld. He thought the compensation offered by HSBC 
was fair and reasonable. 
He also noted  that the payment confirmation advice said:  I want  to pay the HSBC  Bank  UK 
fees. He explained  that when a bank doesnt have a direct relationship with the receiving 
bank an intermediary bank has to be used. The intermediary bank usually charges for the 
service and he thought  that on the balance of probabilities this accounted for the 
discrepancy of 3.50.
HSBC explained  to our service that it could only tell you in advance  about the charges that 
we know will apply to your payment, as we dont know which intermediary bank(s)  may be 
used, nor do we know other  banks  charging  policies. He thought  this was fair and 
reasonable.
Ms O disagrees with the investigators view and shes asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
However, she hasnt provided  any particular reasons to explain why she disagrees with the 
conclusion reached  by the investigator.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise Ms O would like to understand 
why she received less in Overseas Currency than she sent but Id like to explain that our role 
Ref: DRN40034272is to resolve complaints by looking at what we consider to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances by looking at the impact  the problem has had.
In the circumstances of Ms Os complaint I can see that HSBC has already compensated her 
for the £9 bank charge it applied and it also paid £50 compensation. Im satisfied that the 
compensation is sufficient  to cover the shortfall in the amount sent and received. Im 
therefore satisfied  that she hasnt lost out financially. And it follows that I think HSBCs offer 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I do not require it to do anything further.
Ms O would like to understand why there  was a shortfall. I can see that when she asked the 
overseas bank about this she was told that 18.50 in Overseas Currency was taken even before 
the funds arrived in her account.  They  said this was most likely a fee from eithe r the initial 
bank or an intermediary  bank. They explained that they have an incoming transfer  fee of 
15.00 which is deducted from the amount of the incoming  transfer.
The overseas banks explanation is also consistent with HSBC explanation that where it 
doesnt have a direct relationship with the receiving bank, an intermediary bank has to be 
used and an intermediary  bank usually charges for this service.
The terms and conditions  applicable to Ms Os account state: if we send money outside 
EEA, we may use an intermediary bank. This intermediary and the receiving  bank may also 
make charges. I can also see that the payment  confirmation advice  HSBC  sent to Ms O 
states that she selected to pay only HSBCs  UK fees  rather than selecting  to pay all 
charges that might  be applied. So I think its more likely than not that the reason for the 
discrepancy is due to charges applied by the intermediary/corresponding bank used by 
HSBC.
HSBC explained  in its final response  letter that it could only tell Ms O in advance about 
charges it knew would be applied to her payment and it wouldnt know which  intermediary 
bank would be used  or what their charging  policy would be. I think  this is fair and reasonable 
and as Ive explained above  Im satisfied HSBC has compensated  Ms O in any event.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4003427