K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Amigo Loans Ltd is holding him liable for a loan he says he didnt take 
out. 
background
In September  2012, Amigo Loans received an application for a loan of £3,500 in Mr Ps 
name. Mr Ps father was named as a guarantor. Mr P says he couldnt have been 
responsible for the application  because  he was in prison at the time. He said he only realised 
that the loan had been taken out when he checked his credit  file in anticipation of his 
sentence coming  to an end. 
He complained to Amigo  Loans. He said that, as he wasnt the one who completed  the loan 
application, it shouldnt  look to hold him liable for any repayments. Amigo Loans didnt 
uphold Mr Ps complaint.  It said it carried out all the relevant checks  to make sure the loan 
application had legitimately been made by Mr P. 
Repayments had been  made to the loan account,  which would be unlikely if the loan had 
been taken out by a fraudster. Someone also contacted Amigo Loans to say that Mr Ps 
father hadnt genuinely guaranteed the loan  but that the applicant  had imitated  him in order 
to have him named as a guarantor. That would be unlikely if the application had been made 
by a fraudster. Overall, Amigo felt its investigations  showed that it was Mr P who applied  for 
the loan
Mr P was unhappy with Amigo Loans response  and so he referred his complaint to this 
service. It was looked at by an investigator  who didnt uphold it. She contacted Mr Ps bank 
account provider  which sent us statements showing hed received the £3,500  into his 
account. The investigator listened  to recordings of a phone call with the original applicant 
and the phone call in which Mr P complained that the loan had been taken out fraudulently.  
She found that the speaker in the calls sounded  very similar. 
She was unpersuaded by Mr Ps evidence that he was in prison at the time of the 
application. Although he seems  to have been  in prison in 2011, the evidence  didnt 
persuasively demonstrate that he was in prison  at the time the application  was made.  And 
finally, she noted that a fraudster would  be unlikely to make overpayments to the account or 
request Mr Ps father  be removed as a guarantor.  Mr P disagreed with the investigators 
opinion and so the complaint has been  referred to me to come to a final decision.
Mr P was also unhappy about  the fact that Amigo Loans didnt record that the account was 
in default on his credit file sooner than it did. But this issue has since been resolved,  so I 
wont comment on it in this decision.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same reasons.
Ref: DRN41731222On balance, Im persuaded that its more  likely  than not that this loan was genuinely taken  
out by Mr P. I say that because:
In October 2012, someone phoned  Amigo Loans and asked about settling the 
balance in full. Following a discussion of the implications of doing so, they opted to 
make an overpayment to the loan account.  I think its unlikely a purported  fraudster 
wouldve made this call. If someone  had fraudulently made the loan application  in Mr 
Ps name  and had the funds transferred to them,  I think its unlikely theyd be 
concerned about making sure repayments were made on the account.
For the same reason,  I think its unlikely that someone  making the application 
fraudulently would contact Amigo Loans to ask that they remove  Mr Ps father  as a 
guarantor. 
Mr P hasnt  been able to give a clear account  of whether was in prison at the relevant 
time. Hes sent us evidence that shows he has been  in prison  both before and after 
the application  but nothing to confirm that he was in prison  throughout. He also told 
the investigator that the loan application was made while  awaiting my prison 
sentence  but the documents  hes sent us dont suggest  any sentence hes served 
began in the months following this application.  He has since  said that he was already 
in prison by the time the application was made  but this inconsistency makes it 
difficult to give much weight to his version of events.
Statements provided by Mr Ps bank account provider shows that he was receiving 
wages and payments  from the Department for Work and Pensions throughout this 
period which  suggests  he wasnt in prison at the time of the application. These also 
show that the loan was paid into his account.  It also remained in the account and was 
used for general  spending which would be uncommon if the funds had been obtained 
fraudulently, so Im satisfied that Mr P likely  had the benefit of the funds.
Taking all of this into account,  the evidence suggests its more likely than not that this loan 
application was made by Mr P. Mr P has said that the agreement  isnt legally enforceable. 
Its not for me to make a determination on that point  only a court can do so. But as Im 
satisfied that Mr P has had the benefit of the loan, I find it reasonable for Amigo Loans to ask 
him to repay it. 
Id remind Amigo Loans that, if it seeks repayment from Mr P, it has an obligation to exercise 
forbearance and due consideration in respect  of customers in default or in financial 
difficulties.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4173122