K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  UK Insurance Limiteds (UKIs)  refusal to cover  the cost of 
surgery under a travel insurance claim. 
background
Whilst abroad, Mr H needed some  treatment for a medical condition.  UKI confirmed it would 
cover this. Mr H was then told by his doctor that hed need surgery.  This was arranged  to 
take place eight days later. Mr H asked UKI to cover the cost of this as he said it was an 
emergency.  
UKI turned down  this aspect of Mr Hs claim. It didnt agree  the surgery was needed as an 
emergency. UKI wanted to fly Mr and Mrs H home  so that Mr H could have  the treatment in 
the UK. Mr H didnt want this, as there  was a waiting list of over four months for the surgery  
on the NHS. He therefore went ahead with the surgery  whilst abroad. Mr and Mrs H 
complained to UKI about its refusal to cover the surgery, as well as its handling of the claim. 
UKI remained of the opinion  that Mr Hs surgery wasnt needed as an emergency. However, 
it acknowledged it had provided Mr and Mrs H with a poor level of service when dealing  with 
the claim.  It offered £175 total compensation for this. Unhappy  with this, Mr and Mrs H 
brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought  it had been  
reasonable for UKI to conclude that Mr H didnt need emergency treatment, and could have  
returned home for the surgery. She also thought the compensation UKI had offered for poor 
service was fair.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept our investigators  findings, so the matters been passed  to me to 
consider.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy covers emergency  medical  costs outside the insureds home  area. However, it 
excludes treatment  costs which in UKIs opinion could reasonably have  waited until the 
insureds return to their home  area. 
The first point for me to consider is whether it was reasonable  for UKI to want to repatriate 
Mr H back to the UK, or whether he needed to have  the surgery abroad  as an emergency. 
Mr and Mrs H explain they were told on 25 March  that Mr H needed  the surgery.  This was 
arranged for 2 April.  I understand  that Mr H was able to return back to their apartment before 
the surgery was carried out. 
Given that Mr H wasnt  admitted to hospital on 25 March, and his surgery was arranged for 
over a week later, Im inclined to agree with UKI that it doesnt  seem the surgery  was needed  
as an emergency.  Furthermore, Mr and Mrs H have said that Mr H couldnt have the 
operation under the NHS  as there was a four month waiting  list. Again, I think  this supports  
that the surgery wasnt an emergency.  
Ref: DRN47433742Consequently, I think it was reasonable for UKI to conclude that the surgery could have 
waited until Mr H had returned home  to the UK. That being the case,  Im satisfied UKIs 
refusal to cover the cost of the surgery was in line with the policy terms. 
However, as Mr H was in a lot of pain, UKI offered to repatriate Mr and Mrs H home. I think  
this was reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs H refused  UKIs offer, as they said Mr H wasnt  fit to fly and wouldnt have been 
able to get up the steps to the aeroplane. 
The medical report Ive seen says that Mr H was experiencing pain in his right hip and had 
painful mobility. But I havent seen any evidence  that Mr H wasnt fit to fly.
After Mr H had had the surgery abroad, UKI said it would pay £506 towards the claim (in 
addition to the costs of the medical  treatment prior to the surgery), as this was the amount it 
thought it would have cost to repatriate  Mr and Mrs H back to the UK. However, this amount 
was then increased, as UKI later accepted that it would  have paid for ambulance  transfers 
and a medical escort to accompany Mr H on the flight home. 
Mr and Mrs H say that if theyd been  offered this assistance at the outset, they would have 
taken UKI up on its repatriation offer and gone back to the UK. I think  that would have been 
unlikely, and Ill explain why. 
When Mr and Mrs H first contacted UKI on 25 March, UKI explained that it would make  a 
claims decision once it had received a medical report. UKI said that it would either authorise 
the surgery, or it might arrange to bring them back to the UK. In response to this, Mrs H said 
they couldnt return home because there  was a four month waiting list under the NHS, and 
so were getting it donehere. 
 
I think its clear  from this that Mr and Mrs H had no intention of returning  to the UK, and 
instead were willing  to pay for the surgery to take place abroad. 
I can see there were some communication issues between UKI and Mr and Mrs H during the 
claim. Initially, UKI said it would cover  the costs  of the initial  medical treatment Mr H received 
before the surgery. However, later correspondence  from UKI led Mr and Mrs H to believe it 
had withdrawn this offer.  That wasnt the case, but UKI accepted it hadnt made this clear. 
UKI paid Mr and Mrs H £75 compensation to recognise its communication  could have been 
clearer. There were then delays with paying this compensation to Mr and Mrs H, and so UKI 
paid them a further £100. I think this was reasonable compensation in the circumstances. 
I therefore dont  require UKI to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN47433743Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 April 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4743374