K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
November 2005.  Mr and Mrs E say Lloyds  Bank  PLC trading as Cheltenham and Gloucester 
(C&G) mis-sold them MPPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Es complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs E
didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
C&G had to make it clear that the policy was optional and get Mr and Mrs Es consent
before adding the policy. Mr and Mrs E say they werent aware the MPPI was an optional  
product.  As the mortgage and MPPI  were  arranged during a meeting  I dont  know  what  was 
discussed. So Ive considered Mr and Mrs Es comments alongside  the information we have 
from the time of sale. 
  
C&G has provided us with a copy of the MPPI  application form. This includes Mr and Mrs Es 
details and confirms  the policy will be split 50:50.  This application  is separate to the 
application completed for the mortgage and it has been signed by Mr and Mrs E. Based on 
what we know about how MPPI was sold I wouldve  expected the conversations  with the 
C&G advisor  to reflect the details on this form. And if Mr and Mrs E werent sure about  the 
cover I wouldve expected them to query it before signing  and agreeing  to the cover. C&G 
has also provided the mortgage  offer and this includes details of the insurance Mr and Mrs E 
had agreed to. This is detailed in a section  called Optional Insurance and the cost of the 
MPPI and extent of cover is set out. 
So based  on the evidence Ive been provided,  I think its most likely Mr and Mrs E knew  at 
the time that the MPPI  was optional and they decided to take it. But I can understand  why 
they might  not recall  this now, as the sale took place many  years ago.
C&G recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs E  so it had to check that the MPPI was right
for them  and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
I say this because:
Mr and Mrs E were  both eligible for the MPPI.
It doesnt seem they werent affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
MPPI cover  like unusual working arrangements or known medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs E have  said they wouldve received sick pay from their employers.  The 
MPPI wouldve  paid out for 12 months if either  Mr or Mrs E were off work due to 
accident or sickness. This means they wouldve had peace of mind that part of the 
mortgage payment  would be covered, and any employer benefits could be used to 
Ref: DRN47777872help cover every day expenses or other  financial commitments. The PPI wouldve 
also paid for up to 12 months  if Mr and Mrs E were made redundant. 
Mr and Mrs E were  taking on a significant  and long-term financial commitment,  which  
was secured on their home. So the effects of not keeping  up with the repayments 
couldve been serious for them.  And I think having the security that their repayments  
wouldve been made if they were  unable to work wouldve been important to them.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs E. And as the 
policys premiums were  paid monthly, they could have  amended or cancelled  the 
policy if it no longer met their needs.
Its possible the information C&G gave Mr and Mrs E about  the MPPI  wasnt  as clear  as
it shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for them  if something  went
wrong. So I dont  think better information  about the MPPI would have put them off taking out
the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs E have  said, including  the comments about the 
information they were  given when they faced redundancy from their respective employers. 
The MPPI would only cover Mr and Mrs E for involuntary redundancy. And they would only 
be able to claim if they were out of work for more  than 30 days. Mr and Mrs E say they were  
told the MPPI was cancelled when they made enquiries about a claim in 2006 but C&G have 
said the MPPI was cancelled in 2010 when the mortgage ended.   If Mr and Mrs E feel they 
can make  a back dated claim for any period of unemployment they would need to contact 
C&G about this directly.  
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think the MPPI  was mis-sold. I know  this will be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs E, as they clearly feel strongly  about  their complaint. But I hope 
my decision  clearly addresses their concerns.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to
accept or reject my decision  before  13 December  2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4777787