K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him payment  protection  insurance 
(PPI).
background
I set out the full background to Mr Fs complaint in my provisional decision  which  I issued in 
June 2019. Ive attached  that provisional decision here, and it forms part of my final decision.
I invited both parties to provide any further information they wished me to consider before I 
made my final decision. Lloyds didnt have anything further to add. 
Mr F said that I had completely misunderstood  the reason for his complaint. He explained 
that he was complaining because Lloyds had upheld five other complaints about PPI that 
hed made,  and he considered that the circumstances were similar, if not the same,  as in this 
case. He provided  the decision letters that Lloyds had sent him about these other cases.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to assure  Mr F that I have not misunderstood his complaint. I am aware that 
Lloyds had upheld  other complaints that Mr F had made about PPI. But that doesnt mean all 
of Mr Fs complaints should necessarily be upheld; nor does it necessarily mean that a 
decision by Lloyds on one complaint  should tie this service to the same  outcome.
I do not know the circumstances of Mr Fs other  complaints and I dont know  why Lloyds 
chose to uphold  them. This service  is independent,  which means I must look at each case 
on an individual basis. And I have examined the sale of the PPI in this instance only.  
As explained in my provisional decision,  I did not find a reason why the PPI may have  been  
mis-sold. Mr F hasnt provided  any further information to suggest that my provisional  findings 
are incorrect, so I dont see a reason to change my provisional decision. I understand this is 
disappointing for Mr F.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint so it follows that Lloyds  Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay 
any compensation 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN44192562Provisional decision
background
Mr F took out two credit  cards at the same  time with Lloyds in 1994. Lloyds say that one card ending 
in x1759 had PPI attached to it. Lloyds say that they dont have any evidence  of PPI on the other card 
ending x9808.
The PPI wouldve  helped cover Mr Fs repayments on the card(s)  if he hadnt been able to work due 
to an accident, sickness or unemployment. It also provided life cover.
Mr F says he was led to believe the PPI wouldve  influenced the outcome of his credit application. He 
says he didnt  need it.
The adjudicator thought that there wasnt any PPI on card ending x9808. And she didnt think Mr Fs 
complaint in relation to the PPI on card ending  x1759 should be upheld.  Mr F disagrees, so his case 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account when deciding this case.
Mr F applied  for the PPI in 1994. He told us that he did this over the internet. But Lloyds didnt take 
applications for credit cards online at that time. I think its more likely Mr F made  a paper application  
either in a branch  or by post. Either way, Mr F wouldve  completed  an application  form for the cards. 
Although Lloyds hasnt been able to provide  a copy of Mr Fs application, which  is understandable 
given nearly a quarter of a century has passed since then, it has been able to provide a sample copy 
of the type of application  form Mr F wouldve  completed. I can see from this that Mr F wouldve had a 
clear choice about whether to take the PPI. 
Mr F received two credit  cards as a result of the application   one Visa, one Mastercard. 
Lloyds initially told Mr F that he had PPI on both cards.  Later, it said that it couldnt find any evidence 
of PPI on the card ending x9808. This service asked Lloyds to provide any evidence it could. Lloyds 
doesnt have any records about PPI pre-dating January  2000.  It could only provide statements  from 
January 2000 for the card ending x1759, which showed PPI. But the statements for card ending 
x9808 from January 2000 onwards didnt show any PPI, which led Lloyds, and the adjudicator, to 
conclude that there was no evidence PPI had been applied to that card.
However, I asked Lloyds  what the statement balances  were for card ending  x9808 from January 
2000. It transpires that Mr F had a small credit balance  until the card was closed. So if Mr F had PPI 
on that card it wouldnt have appeared  on those statements  because  there was no outstanding 
negative balance to protect. This is the only way Lloyds can definitively  state whether PPI was applied  
to a card taken before 2000. 
It is this services understanding that when PPI was taken in a dual Visa/Mastercard application that it 
was applied to both cards. I think its most  likely  that PPI was applied to both cards in the course  of 
the single application in 1994.So I have considered the merits of Mr Fs complaint about the sale of 
PPI on the understanding it was applied to each  card.  Essentially, it makes no difference to the overall  
outcome as it was a single sale and the circumstances were the same for both cards.
Ref: DRN44192563Lloyds has treated Mr Fs case as if he applied  in a branch of Lloyds. This would mean  that Lloyds 
gave Mr F a personal recommendation about the PPI rather than just providing him with the basic 
information about it. It means  that Lloyds  had to take reasonable steps to make sure it was right for 
Mr F. As this holds Lloyds  to a higher standard, I think it is reasonable to treat Mr Fs complaint this 
way.
Looking at Mr Fs circumstances at the time of sale, I think any recommendation for PPI wouldve 
been suitable  for him. I say this because:
Mr F was eligible for the policy and wouldnt  have been affected  by any terms which  mightve 
made it more difficult  for him to make  a successful claim, such  as those  related to existing 
medical conditions or self-employment;
Mr F cant remember whether he had any sick pay entitlement.  I think its likely he was at 
least entitled to statutory sick pay (SSP). But the policy wouldve  paid out in addition  to this. 
And as SSP wouldve been a lot less than Mr Fs full salary I think the PPI wouldve been 
useful for him;
Mr F didnt have any other  means to meet his credit card repayments if he couldnt  work. Mr F 
says that his family wouldve  helped, but I dont  think  Mr F couldve been certain  theyd be in a 
position to help him at all times. And if Mr Fs family could  help, I think theyd have prioritised 
other expenses like his housing costs first;
The cost of the policy  was comparable  with other similar products on the market  around the 
same time. It was flexible as it could be cancelled at any time without financial penalty. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest  it was unaffordable for Mr F.
Lloyds also had to provide  Mr F with all the information he needed to make his decision about  the 
PPI. I think  its likely  Lloyds didnt do this as well as it shouldve  done. But I dont think even if Mr F 
had all the necessary information that it wouldve made a difference to his decision to buy it, as Ive 
already explained I think it was suitable  for Mr F. 
So I dont think Mr F lost out as a result of anything Lloyds mightve done wrong.
my provisional  decision
Im not intending to uphold this complaint,  so it follows that Lloyds Bank plc doesnt have to pay any 
compensation.
Ill review any further evidence or arguments either party wishes to submit before 24 July 2019, after 
which I will make my final decision.
S Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4419256