K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited  lent to him. Mr M says he was vulnerable 
at the time and couldnt afford the loan.
 
background
Mr M took out a loan with Loans 2 Go in February  2016. The loan was for £500 secured 
against Mr Ms car. The loan was due to be repaid over 12 monthly instalments of around 
£96.67, which meant  that Mr M was due to repay  a total of £1,160.  Loans  2 Go waived £275  
of the loan balance and the loan was deemed  fully repaid in August 2016.
In September  2018, Mr M complained to Loans  2 Go about  the loan. It didnt uphold  his 
complaint. It said it carried out proportionate checks and responsibly  lent to Mr M. Unhappy 
with the response, Mr M referred  his complaint to this service. One of our adjudicators  
thought about what both parties said and the circumstances around the loan. Our adjudicator 
didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a 
sustainable manner  without it adversely impacting  on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves didnt  set out compulsory  checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks  needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent and the term of the loan. 
Loans 2 Go has provided evidence to show that it checked My Ms payslip for three  months 
before the loan,  it asked him about his income and expenses and also searched his credit  
file. And based  on what it saw from this Loans  2 Go thought it reasonable to lend to Mr M.
This was Mr Ms first and only loan with Loans 2 Go, the results  of Loans 2 Gos checks  
showed that Mr M was employed and was receiving  a regular  wage, his income  at the time 
of the loan was around £1,071. I can see that Mr M told Loans 2 Go he lived with his father  
and declared a total expense of around £249.  Loans  2 Go reviewed the declared expenses  
and added a buffer  of £60 to Mr Ms expenses  this left Mr M with sufficient disposable  
income to afford the loan repayments  over the term. 
The results  of the search into Mr Ms credit file didnt  show that he had other credit 
commitments. Taking all these factors together, I dont think  there  were  concerning  signs  in 
these results that should have prompted  Loans  2 Go to take it checks  further.
Ref: DRN42699662As explained above, Loans 2 Go didnt have prescribed checks  it needed  to carry out and 
there was no requirement for it to request Mr Ms bank statements. It needed to satisfy itself 
that its checks were proportionate  to the circumstances of the loan and that Mr M could likely 
afford the loan over the term. On the complaint form, Mr M says Loans  2 Go saw his bank 
statements, the evidence  Ive seen shows that Mr M provided his payslips and told Loans 2 
Go his living expenses, I havent seen evidence to show  that these expenses were  verified.  I 
think Loans 2 Go thought  the declared expenses were low and thats why it added the £60 
buffer.
The checks  showed  that Mr M had sufficient disposable income to repay the loan over the 
term. There was also nothing on his credit file that suggested hed struggle to repay the loan 
and the loan was for a relatively low amount compared to Mr Ms declared  income.  Taking 
these factors together  I think  Loan  2 Gos checks were proportionate and I dont think it 
needed to do more.
Mr M has specifically  said he was gambling  and in severe  depression at the time. I have no 
doubt that this was likely a difficult time for Mr M and Im sympathetic towards that. On the 
other hand, Im mindful that this wasnt information  Loans 2 Go knew  or ought to have 
reasonably known from what I consider to be proportionate checks in this case. Mr M didnt  
tell Loans 2 Go about  his gambling or depression and from what I can see, Loans 2 Gos 
proportionate checks didnt reveal  the information  and so I wouldnt have  expected it to react 
to it.
After the loan was lent, I can see that Mr M had difficulties repaying the loan and Loans 2 Go 
waived £275 of the outstanding balance. I dont  think it has acted unfairly  when it lent to 
Mr M and it appears to have to have acted positively when Mr M had financial difficulties. So, 
I wont be asking it to do anymore. 
I appreciate that my findings  are likely  to disappoint Mr M but based on the circumstances of 
this loan and what Loans 2 Go knew and ought  reasonably to have known about him at the 
time, I dont think it was wrong  to lend to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint or make  any award against 
Loans 2 Go Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 October  2020.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4269966