K822xcomplaint
Mrs S complains that she was mis-sold loans by Harvey & Thompson Limited (H&T). 
background 
Using the information I have, I created this Loan Table as a brief overview of Mrs S lending 
history with H&T. 
Loan Amount Date  
approvedPayment 
methods  
(rounded)Fully  repaid Original 
loan 
termtype
1 This is a period  of cheque loans and to satisfactorily summarise it in a loan table would  mean 
that the table  was too large. It covers  the period 1 March 2004 to July 2005 and pre-dates our 
jurisdiction over consumer  credit complaints.
Gap in lending
This is a period  of cheque loans and to satisfactorily summarise it in a loan table would mean that the 
table was too large. It covers the period 18 April 2012 to 7 September  2012. The batches  of loans 
amount to Loans 2, 3 and 4 for the purposes of this table.
5 £600 7 September 
2012Instalments 
about  £80 a 
month18 March 2013  
- £391  
refinanced  into 
Loan  622 
monthsSentinel 
Loan
6 £750 18 March 
2013Instalments 
about  £99 a 
month3 October 2013 
- £388  
refinanced  into 
Loan  712 
monthsSentinel 
loan
7 £750 2 October 
2013Instalments 
about  £95 a 
month11 November 
2014 paid to £014 
monthsPersonal  
loan
Declined loan 16 September 2014
8 £745.23 11 November 
2014Instalments 
about  £99 a 
month30 November 
2015 paid to £013 
monthsPersonal  
loan
Declined loan 23 June 2015  during Loan 8
Gap in lending
9 £800
Purpose  
holiday6 March  2018 Instalments 
about £111  a 
monthLikely  
refinanced  into 
Loan 1012 
monthsPersonal  
loan
10 £1,816.24 10 January  
2019Instalments  of 
about £14115 August  2019 24 
monthsPersonal  
loan
11 £2,408.22 30 August  
2019instalments of 
about £142  a 
monthOngoing about 
£1,900 left to 
payabout 25 
monthsPersonal  
loan
Declined  loan 11 February  2020
Ref: DRN48658982I issued a provisional decision on 9 June 2020  with a reply  date of 9 July 2020. The outcome  
was that I was planning to uphold the complaint about the lending: 
In the second  loan chain:  from Loan  5 through  to Loan 8 and 
In the third loan chain:  Loans 10 and 11 
and I was planning to direct  that H&T put things right for Mrs S in the way I outlined in that 
provisional decision. It is reproduced  at the end of this final decision and the reasoning 
contained in it forms part of this final decision. 
Mrs S has nothing  else to add in relation to her complaint. I did need to hear from H&T as 
there was some information  about some declined  loans  I needed.  H&T has sent me that 
information and it has been added to the Loan  Table  for completeness. 
This complaint has been proceeding for a long time and so in the interests of all parties, and 
in light of the received information  from H&T, I have  chosen to issue my final decision now. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
H&T has pointed out that Mrs S has applied for (and been declined)  for a loan earlier  this 
year while the complaint  has been  with this service. It was not approved  and so is not part of 
the complaint  relating to irresponsible  lending. Loans 10 and 11 were  applied for, and 
approved, while the complaint was with H&T and this service. And I have addressed  those 
points in my provisional  decision  (attached).  
H&T has also said that The customer was declined 3 times 16/09/2014, 23/06/2015 and 
11/02/2020. This would  therefore add weight to the argument that the loan commencing 
11/11/14 was valid as we declined a further loan allowing that loan to be satisfactorily 
repaid.
I do not think that this submission alters my provisional decision in relation to Loan 8. It is 
more a justification for the decline, than a persuasive reason not to uphold the irresponsible  
lending complaint. I have not been  given the details of that loan. For example I do not know  
how much  it was that Mrs S applied for, nor the reasons  for the decline.  It may have been 
declined because Mrs S had an outstanding loan with H&T. But I would expect that H&T 
looked a little deeper into why it is that Mrs S was constantly requiring loans. By the date of 
the declined loan, Mrs S had been borrowing from H&T for two years.  And as I have outlined 
in my provisional decision,  the repetitive nature of the loans would  have been  further  
enhanced by Mrs S asking for more capital  while Loan 7 remained outstanding. As it was, 
Mrs S did pay off Loan 7 and took Loan  8 immediately. 
So, for the reasons set out in the provisional decision and here I uphold Mrs S complaint 
in the second loan chain:  from Loan  5 through  to Loan 8 and 
in the third loan chain:  Loans 10 and 11, 
and H&T should  put things right for Mrs S in the way I have  outlined  here. 
Mrs S is in the middle of repaying Loan  11 and so that will need to be treated differently. 
Ref: DRN48658983putting things right
To put things right for Mrs S H&T should:
refund  all the interest and charges applied to Loans 5 to 8 inclusive and Loan 10; and
add interest at 8% per year simple interest*  on the above  refunded  sums from the 
date they were paid,  if they were, to the date of settlement;
ordinarily Id direct  that H&T removes any adverse payment information  recorded on 
Mrs S credit file but as these have likely been removed from that credit  file due to the 
passage of time, I direct  that this amendment is done for anything  from June  2014.  
That will mean Loans 8 and 10; 
Loan 11 is still being paid and my understanding that it is within  its original loan 
agreement period. So, I direct that this loan has all its interest and charges removed, 
and the loan account is reworked  to ensure that all that Mrs S has repaid so far 
towards it is treated  as having  repaid the principal. And that no further interest  is 
charged to this account going  forward.
H&T is entitled to set off any monies  arising  from the redress  against any monies Mrs S 
owes it. As I know  that Mrs S owes H&T for Loan  11, then it could use any redress  to set-off 
against that Loan. But to be clear this should  only be in respect of the principal sum 
borrowed. Any unpaid  charges and interest would need to be removed first and any 
payments made to the loan treated as if Mrs S paid down the principal.
Any surplus needs to have the 8% simple  interest* added to it and paid to Mrs S. 
Once repaid, Loan 11 is to be removed from Mrs S credit file completely. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires H&T to deduct  tax from this interest. It should give Mrs S 
a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if she asks for one. 
If H&T intends to apply the refund  to reduce any outstanding capital balance,  it must do so 
after deducting the tax.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs S complaint in part and Harvey  & Thompson Limited 
should do as I have outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN48658984my provisional decision dated 9 June 2020
background
Mrs S complained to H&T in September 2018. Using  information from H&Ts  records a brief loan table 
is set out at the end of this provisional decision  for reference only. Loans 10 and 11 were applied  for 
after she had referred her complaint to this service.  The loans taken  before April 2007 are not ones 
we can look at as they pre-dates our jurisdiction for consumer credit.  For ease of reference Ive 
collectively referred to this lending period  as Loan 1.
H&T has said that it is not able to provide the application details for the PDA (cheque loans period)  
and the Sentinel loans. 
H&T explained to Mrs S in its final response letter to Mrs S former  representative in October  2018 
that part of the assessment carried out before  lending included a criteria list which included:  the  
requirement to have  been  in continuous employment over a minimum length of time, a net income 
above a minimum requirement, verification  of income  and employment, not to have any other current  
lending with H&T and a requirement for your bank statements to be submitted for analysis. This 
review of [Mrs S] bank statements allowed us to further verify  income,  to assess her current account 
conduct, investigate her day to day finances and evaluate  her financial management  abilities.  The 
review also provided, if applicable, clear confirmation of outgoings to creditors and other lenders for 
consideration.
H&T also said that a full credit score is performed but what that entails is unclear.  And H&T said that 
customers were  able  to choose repayment terms and amounts to suit their budget. And it said that 
Mrs S did this. 
H&T has said to us The second period of borrowing was from April 2012 to October  2012,  for this 
period the average  loan was £442.85 and the interest paid over the period was £435, therefore we do 
not believe redress is due.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at the complaint  and thought that some rollovers during that period 
leading up to Loan 5 ought  not to have been approved, plus,  she thought  that H&T should  put things 
right in relation to Loans 6 to 8 and Loan 11. 
Neither party  responded to the adjudicators view, the complaint remained unresolved  and was 
passed to me for a decision.  
missing information
H&T has said that two of Mrs S applications were declined. I asked for further information  on these 
and I have not heard from H&T. As this is a provisional decision, I ask that details of those declined 
loans are sent to me. 
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general  approach to 
complaints about high cost lending - including  all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry  
practice - on our website. 
H&T needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it did not lend irresponsibly.  In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mrs S could repay the loans  
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
Ref: DRN48658985With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that H&T should fairly and reasonably have  done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include: where a 
customers income is particularly low; where  the repayments  are particularly high; and/or where the 
frequency of the loans  and the length of time over which a customer has been given loans need to be 
looked at: repeated  refinancing could signal  that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, 
unsustainable.
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
H&T was required to establish whether Mrs S could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether  the 
loan payments were affordable on a strict  pounds  and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) and its predecessor  (the Irresponsible Lending 
Guide by the Office of Fair Trading) define sustainable as being the ability to repay without undue  
difficulties. In particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable  commitments, and without  having  to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower 
will not be able to make their repayments sustainably  if they need to borrow further in order to do that.
I have carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs S complaint.
As I have said in the background part of this provisional decision, the period Im referring to as Loan 1 
pre-dates the time that the ombudsman service had jurisdiction over consumer credit complaints 
(April 2007).  So, I say no more about  it. The second period of lending  started in April 2012.
The period from April 2012  to 7 Sept 2012
This lending  relates  to a series of cheque loans where  the system  appeared to be that Mrs S would 
give post-dated cheques to H&T, in return for the value of that cheque  less the fee (in the early part of 
this period it was £13 and rose to £15 later). Mrs S was able to roll or extend that loan by paying 
the fee again.  So, the records tell me that she arranged three of these  type of loans on 18 April 2012 
 3 x £100  less the £13 fee for each cheque. One of these  was settled  on 11 May 2012.
And on 15 May 2012, Mrs S took three more of these cheque  loans - 3 x £100 less fees of £13 per 
cheque. On 18 June 2012 a further cheque loan was arranged for £100 less £13. 
All of these were rolled each month  (by now the fee had increased to £15 each time) until two were  
settled on 7 August 2012 and four settled on 7 September 2012. 
The fact that these loans  were rolled many  times  ought  to have been a cause for concern for H&T.  
And at the same time as extending them,  additional loans  were  approved for her. I think  that more  
checks ought  to have been carried out by H&T and I do not think that it did this. 
I have not been given much  information about the time surrounding these types of loans and so 
although H&T says that it looked at payslips  and bank  statements,  they do not relate to this period. 
The earliest  set of bank statements and payslips  that I have seen are August/September  2013 which 
relate to Loan  7. 
Ref: DRN48658986So, I do not think that H&T did carry out the checks  I would  have considered proportionate. But I have 
little information from Mrs S with which  to consider what  H&T might have seen if it had investigated  
her financial situation more  closely.  So, on the evidence  I have at the moment, I am planning not to 
uphold Mrs S cheque loans for this period.  
Loan 5 to Loan 8
Flowing on from the cheque loan period, and still part of this second chain of lending, the records from 
H&T show me that on the day that all the outstanding  six cheque loans were settled  
(7 September 2012), Mrs S was approved for a new type of loan  a Sentinel Loan  for £600. 
I have two views in relation  to what the records show me, neither of which lead me to think that this 
was responsible lending. Either, the £600 loan taken on 7 September 2012 was essentially the 
refinancing of the earlier  six cheque loans which had been rolled over several times and had been 
outstanding for months. In which case, this would be irresponsible to extend  the same debt further.  
Alternatively, and more  likely, Mrs S received a fresh loan of £600, on the understanding that her 
other cheques  would  be banked.  And so the records show that these  were settled  on 
7 September 2012, the same day as the first Sentinel loan - Loan 5- was approved. These six 
cheques relating to that earlier period were  banked  over the period from early September to mid-
October 2012. 
Therefore, my understanding is, that as well as having to commence repayment of the new Loan 5, 
Mrs S would have had to deal with six cheques  being  debited from her account  all within weeks of 
each other.  If this was the series of events which took place in the autumn of 2012 then I also 
consider that irresponsible lending.
And to explain further, I have  looked at the overall pattern of H&Ts  lending  history with Mrs S, with a 
view to seeing  if there was a point at which  H&T should  reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so, H&T should have realised  that it shouldnt  have 
provided any further  loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs S case, I think that this point  was reached by 
7 September 2012  Loan  5. I say this because:
Mrs S had been consistently borrowing from H&T over a substantial period  during which she 
demonstrated that she needed more capital  while  at the same time rolled her existing  loans 
several times;
my view is that Loan 5 was essentially a refinancing of the earlier cheque loans OR was a 
fresh loan when the cheque loans remained outstanding which was particularly burdensome 
and extended her indebtedness; and the amounts she was borrowing increased over this 
period and for the rest of the borrowing  relationship;
Mrs S was repeatedly  coming back for new loans  on the day a previous loan was repaid;
I think  that Mrs S lost out because  H&T continued  to provide borrowing at Loan 5 through to Loan 8, 
because
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Mrs S indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended  period;
the amount  of time she had been in debt with H&T was likely to have had negative  
implications on Mrs S ability to access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market for 
these high-cost loans.
In my view,  the pattern of lending itself shows that the loans from Loan 5 ought not to have been 
approved, so I dont think H&T ought  to have approved any further credit for Mrs S from Loan 5 
through to Loan 8. 
Ref: DRN48658987Loans 9 to 11 
This is the third period  of lending for Mrs S. Loan 9 was after a significant  break in lending and I think  
that H&T was reasonable to approach  Mrs S application  for Loan 9 as if she were a fresh applicant.  
H&T had obtained payslips and had looked at her bank statements for the period leading  up to the 
loan application date in or around March 2018.  These showed that she had around £1,177 regular 
outgoings and bills and credit card repayments with a net monthly income of around £1,560. Food 
costs would  be on top and this new loan was going to cost around £111 a month.  I think  that this loan 
would have stretched Mrs S but overall, the checks carried out were likely proportionate and it would 
have appeared just about  affordable, and I do not uphold Mrs S complaint about Loan 9.
Loan 10 being  approved  by H&T was disappointing to see as it was a loan applied for after Mrs S had 
complained to H&T (September 2018) and while Loan 9 was still outstanding. I can see that H&T 
obtained payslips  and bank statements from Mrs S. Her net monthly income  was a little higher at 
£1,611 but her outgoings  and regular  credit card repayments plus the Loan 9 payments amounted to 
about £1,228 (Mrs S had declared  £1,019 as outgoings  on her application form.) The payslips seen 
for Loan 9 and again  for Loan 10 show that she had taken a Season Ticket  loan from her employer as 
well. Food costs would have  been on top of the summary  I have given above.
 
The bank statements  gave clear actual expenditure figures, but also, they help to gauge how a 
persons finances are doing in general. And the difference from Mrs S early 2018 statements  seen 
by H&T when  she applied for Loan 9 - is that in December 2018 (just before applying  for Loan 10) Mrs 
S was overdrawn and paying bank charges for an arranged overdraft. Whereas  in early 2018 she had 
just about managed to keep her account balanced. So, her overall financial situation had deteriorated  
such that she was always in overdraft by the time she applied for Loan 10. 
The Loan 10 repayments  extended her indebtedness for a further 721 days  and her repayments were 
due to increase to about £141 each month for 24 months which was an additional £30 each month 
and for a longer  period. Loan 9 had been taken for 359 days from 6 March 2018 with 12 instalments 
and so it seems that Mrs S refinanced some of the outstanding Loan 9 sums into Loan 10. Whereas  I 
think that being able to afford Loan 9 was tight, Loan  10 I do not think was able to be repaid 
sustainably. I dont  think  that Mrs S ought  to have been approved for this loan. I plan to uphold  Loan 
10.
 
In this third lending period  I think  that the point at which  Mrs S demonstrated that she had become 
reliant on the lending was arrived at by the last loan  Loan 11. Just seven months into that 24 month 
Loan 10 agreement, and after H&T were fully aware of her complaint to it, Mrs S applied again, and 
the loan was approved. For Mrs S to return for additional credit and a larger amount, which would 
have included  some  refinance of Loan 10 into Loan 11, H&T ought  to have been alerted to investigate  
further.
I think  that Mrs S lost out because  H&T continued  to provide borrowing at Loan 11 because she was 
taking a further loan, and 
it had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Mrs S indebtedness by allowing her to take expensive 
credit intended  for short-term use over an extended  period;
the amount  of time she had been in debt with H&T was likely to have had negative  
implications on Mrs S ability to access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market for 
these high-cost loans.
So, I am upholding the complaint about the lending: 
In the second loan chain:  from Loan 5 through to Loan 8 and 
In the third loan chain:  Loans 10 and 11 
and H&T should put things right for Mrs S in the way I have outlined here. 
Mrs S is in the middle of repaying Loan 11 and so that will need to be treated  differently. 
End of provisional decision 
Ref: DRN4865898