K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has declined to refund a payment she made as 
part of a scam.
background
Mrs P was in contact with a third party purporting to work for a well-known  travel  agency. On 
28 November 2018 she made a one-off faster payment for £900.50 using her online banking.
When Mrs P couldnt then get hold of the third party and hadnt received her tickets, she 
became concerned. Mrs P realised this was likely a scam and contacted  HSBC  just before 
17:30 that afternoon.
HSBC let the receiving  account provider know about  Mrs Ps concerns. It also wrote to Mrs P 
the next day explaining  it wouldnt be providing  a refund.
Mrs P called HSBC on more than one occasion asking for an update  and was given incorrect  
information several times about the status of her claim for a refund. HSBC  accepted  that it 
had provided a poor service and paid her £250 compensation in recognition of this. 
However, it declined  to provide a refund on the basis that she had authorised the payment 
and it had followed her instructions  correctly.
Mrs P complained to our service and an investigator didnt uphold her complaint. They  said 
that HSBC made the payment correctly and it wouldnt be reasonable to conclude it ought to 
have prevented the payment because  it wouldnt have  appeared suspicious. They  also 
explained Mrs Ps funds had already been  removed from the recipient account  before Mrs P 
had raised her concerns with HSBC and so there were no funds  available  to recover.
Mrs P didnt agree and so the matter  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
case for similar reasons to the investigator.
Im sorry  to hear of whats happened to Mrs P, and I can understand her strength of feeling.  
My understanding is that HSBC has paid Mrs P compensation for the customer  service 
issues she experienced and that her main complaint is about  not receiving a refund for the 
disputed payment. So, this is what Ill focus  on.
What I need to decide is whether HSBC  has done  anything wrong that has caused Mrs P to 
lose out. Essentially,  whether it should  have done more to prevent the payment or recover  
Mrs Ps funds.
Both parties  agree that Mrs P made the disputed payment of £900.50 on the basis  that she 
was tricked by the third party  into believing she was paying a legitimate travel  agency.
This means  that this was an authorised payment even though Mrs P was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. As Mrs P made the payment herself, the starting point  in law is that 
HSBC was obliged  to follow her instruction and process the payment, so Mrs P isnt 
automatically entitled to a refund. 
Ref: DRN40676722However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers  were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
 In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make  additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether,  to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
Having considered the circumstances in light of the above, Im not persuaded that HSBC 
ought to have done more  to prevent the payment, I say this because:
 The payment  was made correctly in line with Mrs Ps instruction
 The value of the payment was not significantly  higher than previous activity on her 
account - in the six months prior to the payment she had payments in and out that 
were much higher,  although  I appreciate her point that these were transfers to 
herself.
 The value of the payment itself would not typically require greater scrutiny
 I dont think  there  was anything suspicious or unusual  about the payment that would 
have suggested  to HSBC that Mrs P was being scammed.
In relation to recovering Mrs Ps funds, unfortunately by the third party  by the time Mrs P 
reported the scam the funds had already  been withdrawn from the recipient account. This 
means that whilst HSBC did inform the receiving bank of Mrs Ps concerns, there  would 
have been no funds available to recover.
Its unfortunate that Mrs P has lost out, and I understand that this whole experience will have 
been very frustrating  for her. But in the circumstances,  I dont  think  it would be fair to require 
HSBC to reimburse Mrs P for her loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2021.
Stephanie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4067672