K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) declined his section 75 claim.
background
In August  2014  Mr J was supplied with a car and paid a deposit using his BOI credit card.
Mr J has said that he began to experience  issues with error messages relating  to the 
steering and the immobiliser from December 2014. He has said that the car broke down 
several times and on each occasion  he had to call out a recovery company.
The car was returned to the supplying dealer but on each occasion the technicians  were 
unable to replicate  the issues which Mr J reported.
In June 2017 the technicians discovered that the battery on the car was not a manufacturer 
fitted battery  and said that this could be linked  to the issues which  Mr J was experiencing.
Mr J was unable to resolve matters with the dealer so he complained to BOI. He wants  to 
reject the car and receive  a full refund of the purchase price. 
BOI said there  was no evidence that the car was of unsatisfactory  quality  and declined  the 
section 75 claim. It acknowledged that it could have provided better  customer  service to Mr J 
when he first complained  and offered  compensation of £100.
Mr J wasnt happy with the response  and complained to this service.
Our investigator thought that the car had been sold to Mr J with a battery which  wasnt 
designed for the car and felt it was likely that this had caused the issues.  The investigator 
said BOI should arrange for a replacement  battery and pay compensation of £150 for loss of 
use.
BOI responded and said the supplying  dealer  had already replaced the battery  in January 
2018.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigator. He said hed rejected the car and had been advised 
not to drive it so he hadnt collected it from the supplying dealer after it replaced the battery.  
He said hed hired a car in the meantime and wanted reimbursement for these costs.  Mr J 
said hed accepted the return  of the car in July 2018  only because  the dealership threatened 
to charge him for storage. He said the new battery  hadnt resolved the issues  and provided a 
further diagnostic  from a  third party garage  which suggested that the fault codes might have 
been caused a by a fault with the body control module but that further  inspection  by an 
engineer specialising in electrical faults was required.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation by the supplier. In order to uphold Mr Js complaint  about BOI, I would 
Ref: DRN47243422need to be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or a misrepresentation and that 
BOIs response to the section 75 claim wasnt fair or reasonable.
The relevant  law says that the goods  in this case the car  must be of satisfactory quality  
at the point of supply.  If this isnt the case then a breach of contract can be said to have 
occurred.
Satisfactory quality is what  a reasonable person would  expect,  taking into account all of the 
relevant circumstances including (amongst other things) the age and mileage of the car and 
the price paid.
Where a fault occurs  within the first 6 months theres  a presumption that the fault was 
present at the point of supply unless  the business can show otherwise. The business sis 
allowed an opportunity to fix the fault. After 6 months, the burden of proof  is reversed and it 
up to the consumer to show  that the fault was present at the point of supply.
Mr J and BOI disagree about whether the car had a fault. In order  to reach a decision  I need  
to look at all of the available information and determine, on the balance of probabilities, 
whether the car is of satisfactory quality.
Mr J has said that he first experienced  issues with the warning light in December 2014. I can 
see that the car has been inspected by the supplying dealer on several occasions since then 
but the technicians havent been  able to replicate  the issues  or find any fault codes. This has 
been the case throughout 2015  and 2016 until in June 2017 the supplying dealer found that 
the wrong battery had been  fitted to the car and suggested that this might be the cause of 
the issues. Initially Mr J wasnt prepared to give authority for the battery to be replaced even 
though the dealer offered because the dealer  couldnt give a guarantee that this would 
resolve the issues. However,  in January 2018  Mr J aged to have the battery replaced. After  
the battery  had been replaced, and before  the car had been collected, Mr J said he wanted 
to reject the car. 
Ive reviewed the job sheets provided  by the dealer  but I cant see any evidence that there 
was a fault with the car. I can see that diagnostic tests were  carried out but that no faults 
were found.  Ive taken  into account  the intervals at which the car was returned  to the 
supplying dealer, which suggests  that the issues were intermittent,  because  there are 
periods of several months  where  no problems were reported.
I can see that the car has broken down on several  occasions and that both the third party 
recovery company and the dealer  identified  an incorrect  battery  as a possible cause. Mr J 
has said that the battery in the car was the one it was supplied with. I havent seen anything 
which causes me to doubt this. Based on the opinion of the recovery  company and the 
dealer, it seems likely  that the incorrect battery was the cause of the issues.
Since the battery was replaced  Mr J has said that hes experienced the same  issues.  
However, I havent been provided with any persuasive evidence to show  that this is the 
case. I can see that the car remained at the supplying dealer from January 2018 to July 
2018 because  Mr J didnt  collect  it. Mr J has also told this service  that he hasnt used the car 
since it was returned  to him in July 2018  because he thought  this was consistent with his 
request to reject it. On balance, Im unable  to conclude  that the repair (the replacement 
battery) wasnt successful.
Ref: DRN47243423Ive considered the further evidence provided by Mr J. This makes  reference to a possible 
fault with the body  control module but it isnt conclusive  and the third party  garage has said 
that it doesnt specialise in electrical faults and that a qualified person needs  to investigate 
further. Im not persuaded that this evidence is sufficient to enable me to draw any 
conclusions or to say that the new battery is causing  the fault codes.
Taking everything into account,  Im unable to conclude that the car is of unsatisfactory 
quality. The diagnostic  tests carried out by the supplying dealer found no faults. It seems 
most likely that the issues experienced by Mr J were  caused by an incorrect  battery but this 
has been replaced now and I havent  seen any persuasive evidence  that the issues  have 
continued. Im not persuaded  that BOI has acted unfairly or unreasonably  in declining the 
Section 75 claim.
That said,  I can see that Mr J has had some  loss of use of the car up to the point where the 
battery was replaced  and I think its fair to ask BOI to pay compensation for this. I think  £150 
is a fair and reasonable amount.
Mr J has said that he had to hire an alternative car from January 2018  onwards. I dont think  
its reasonable to ask BOI to cover these costs because Im not persuaded that there was 
any good reason  for Mr J not to use the car once the battery  had been  replaced.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  the complaint. Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc must pay 
compensation of £150 to Mr J for loss of use.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4724342