K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Zenith voided his motorcycle insurance and refused to pay his claim  
when his bike was stolen. Its refunded the premiums he paid since  the most  recent  policy 
renewal, but not the premiums paid in previous years.
background
Mr J insured his motorcycle through Zenith.  He first insured it in 2015  through  a broker, and 
the broker placed the insurance with a separate underwriter. At the 2016 renewal, the broker  
placed the insurance with Zenith,  and that continued  at the 2017 renewal.
About a month  after the 2017  renewal,  Mr Js bike was stolen. He kept it chained  up in the 
front yard of his house   behind a boundary wall, but visible  from the street.  He also had it 
covered by CCTV cameras. The CCTV showed the bike being stolen.
Mr J claimed on his insurance. He told Zenith what had happened. Zenith said the policy  
required the bike to kept overnight  in a locked garage   and Mr J had said it would be when 
the predecessor  policy was first taken  out in 2015. Hed not corrected the renewal 
documents which said the same thing. But it wasnt in fact kept in a garage. 
Zenith said that Mr J lived in a high risk area for motorbike theft. It said that in his area, it 
wouldnt accept motorbike  policies  unless the bike was kept in a locked garage. So if it had 
known the true position, it wouldnt have offered insurance. It voided Mr Js policy  back to the 
most recent renewal and refunded the premium to the broker to pass on to Mr J.
Mr J complained. He initially said hed never  told the broker  that the bike would be kept in a 
garage. But our investigator listened to the call with the broker  where  the initial policy  was 
taken out, and found that he did  and the importance of it was made  clear  to him. Mr J then 
accepted that hed not been  accurate in the information he gave when taking out the first 
insurance policy.
At the later renewals in 2016  and 2017, Mr J didnt speak to Zenith  or the broker. He was 
sent renewal invitations  setting  out the scope of his cover and the brokers understanding  of 
the facts. The renewal documents invited Mr J to correct any errors, and stated both that his 
bike was kept in a garage   and the importance of doing  so. The bike was also insured for 
social domestic and pleasure  use as well  but Mr J used it in the course of his work.
As a result Zenith said hed made a misrepresentation. It said that, because  of where Mr J 
lived, it would never have offered insurance  if it had known the true position.  It voided the 
policy. Our investigator thought that was a fair decision. But she said Zenith should refund 
the premiums for the previous policy year as well, since the policy  had been unacceptable  
from the start of Zenith taking it on. Zenith  disagreed. It said it had only voided the current 
years policy. Each policy year was a separate contract of insurance. So it only needed to 
refund the current year.  It asked for an ombudsman to decide the issue.
I issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case Ive taken into account  the 
relevant law  which  includes the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and 
Representations) Act. This says, in summary,  that a consumer has a duty not to 
make a misrepresentation when taking out a contract of insurance. If the insurer  can 
Ref: DRN45392212show a qualifying misrepresentation  was made,  it can take certain  action. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, and it can show had it known the truth it would 
never have  offered the policy it can void the policy but the premiums should be 
refunded. And if the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless  it can void the 
policy and need  not refund the premiums unless it would be unfair to retain them.
I think there was a misrepresentation in this case.  
When he took the policy out via the broker, with the previous insurer, Mr J said, when 
asked where it was kept at night, its garaged and locked up off the street. The 
broker then confirmed that the bike was kept overnight in a garage  and said there 
would be no cover for theft if it wasnt. Mr J again  confirmed the bike was kept in a 
locked garage.  She said when  youre at home, please make  sure you lock the 
vehicle in your garage, not keep  it at the side of the road. Mr J agreed he would. 
That wasnt  correct. Mr Js property doesnt have a garage and the bike has never 
been kept in one. 
Its been said on his behalf that keeping it locked up in front of the house  under 
CCTV is equivalent security to keeping it in a locked garage. Im not persuaded of 
that  and even if it was, the fact is its not a garage  and I dont  think its possible to 
describe it as such. The broker  explained the importance of this question at the time 
and repeatedly confirmed that the bike would be kept in a locked garage, and 
wouldnt be covered  if it wasnt. Having listened  to the call, I dont think its plausible  
that Mr J didnt understand the importance of that requirement, didnt  understand 
what a garage was, or thought that keeping the bike outside the front of his house 
was equivalent  to, and could be described as, keeping it in a locked  garage.  
All that was said to the broker, who then placed the insurance with the previous 
underwriter. 
When the policy moved to Zenith,  there was no further conversation. All that 
happened was that Mr J was sent renewal documentation setting out that the bike 
was kept in a garage and would not be insured for theft from at or near the home if it 
wasnt. Mr J didnt correct the information  in the renewal documentation  despite 
being asked to check it and amend if anything was wrong.
A failure  to correct information when asked  to do so can amount  to a 
misrepresentation. So I think Mr J made  a further  misrepresentation  when the policy 
moved to Zenith and when it was renewed. And I think that he misled the broker 
when the policy was first taken out  which directly  led to the wrong information being 
given to Zenith by the broker, information which Mr J failed to correct  despite 
knowing it was wrong. 
Zenith has shown us its underwriting criteria which show that, in Mr Js area, any 
proposal where a bike is not kept in a garage  would  be declined. Mr J doesnt own a 
garage, and if it had known that Zenith would never have insured him.
I think that this was a qualifying  misrepresentation,  and I think Zenith was entitled to 
void the policy because  it would never  have  offered  it had it known the truth.
 
Ref: DRN45392213In such cases, the insurer  is entitled to decline the claim because, in effect, the policy  
never existed. Its refunded the premiums  for the policy year in which the claim 
happened. Whats at issue in this case is whether it should do so for previous  years 
as well.
Between 2015 and 2016, the policy was with a different underwriter. It appears  it was 
part of the same business group  as Zenith  but it was nonetheless  a different firm. So 
Zenith wasnt party to that insurance contract  and isnt in a position to refund the 
premiums for it.
That leaves the policy year 2016-17, the first year the broker  placed it with Zenith. 
Zenith says each year is a separate contract of insurance, and its only voided the 
one for the year in which the claim  arose.  But Mr Js partner, whos representing him, 
says that if the policy was never acceptable from the start all the premiums should  be 
refunded  if Zenith keeps them, that shows it was prepared to accept the risk and so 
it wasnt fair to reject  this claim.
As Ive said,  Ive taken  into account what the Act says here. It says that where  theres 
a careless misrepresentation without which the contract would never have  been  
entered into, the insurer can void the contract but must refund all premiums. But if the 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, it need not refund  the premiums.
Zenith has voided only the contract  for the policy year in which  the claim occurred, 
and refunded the premiums  as if this were a careless misrepresentation. I agree 
with it that each policy year is a separate contract, to be considered separately. 
Having considered what Mr J told the broker when he took the policy out, I think it 
would have been possible for Zenith to have  concluded the misrepresentation was 
deliberate or reckless,  and not refunded  the premiums at all. So in returning the 
premiums for the current year  which, I agree, is a separate contract of insurance to 
previous years, and the only one that was voided  I think Zenith has acted fairly in 
all the circumstances  and I dont ask it to do anything further. I therefore dont intend 
to uphold this complaint.
Mr J didnt accept my provisional decision.  On his behalf, his partner said that the Act 
required the insurer to take into account any characteristics  or circumstances of the 
consumer it was, or ought to have been, aware of. She said that it should have used an 
internet satellite photography service  to look at Mr Js house  and if it had done so it could  
have seen he didnt  have a garage. She said it was the insurers  responsibility to carry out 
due diligence  before  entering  into a contract  not Mr Js responsibility.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware of the provision in the Act Mr Js partner has referred  to. The Act does  say that an 
insurers required to take into account  the consumers characteristics and circumstances in 
deciding whether a misrepresentations been made.  
But this provision is about the standard  of care to be expected  of a consumer. If theres 
anything about  the consumer that means,  for example, they might have had difficulty 
Ref: DRN45392214understanding the question that was asked, that is to be taken into account. Im not aware of 
any relevant characteristics or circumstances Mr J has  his partner has said hes not taken 
out insurance before, but I dont  think thats relevant to whether he understood what  a 
garage was. Having listened to the initial call Im satisfied he understood the question  he 
was being asked; he just didnt answer it accurately.  And for the same reason Im satisfied 
he understood what was being said when Zenith  invited him to correct  any errors in the 
renewal proposal  and didnt  do so.
I dont think this provision means  that an insurers required to independently  investigate  
everything a consumer says and that if it doesnt  do so it cant find theres  been  a 
misrepresentation. That would be to undermine  the overall purpose of the Act, which  is to 
put a duty on the consumer to take reasonable care not to mislead the insurer when taking 
out insurance.
So I dont  think it would  be fair to say that the broker, or Zenith, should have checked  Mr Js 
address using online mapping  services   and that its failure  to do so overrides  his duty not to 
make a misrepresentation.  I still think,  for the reasons  I gave, that Mr J made  a qualifying 
misrepresentation, and that as a result  Zenith  was entitled to void his policy. And I dont think 
it would  be fair, therefore, to uphold this complaint or require it to pay the claim.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4539221