K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained about a loan he took out with Madison CF UK Limited,  trading as 118 
118 Money. Mr G says it was irresponsible for the company  to give him the loan as it should  
have been obvious he could not afford  to pay it back. 
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case in October 2020 explaining why I intended to 
uphold this complaint.  A copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms part of my 
final decision.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments or evidence  they would  like me 
to consider before I issued a final decision.  Both parties appear to have  accepted my 
provisional decision and have not provided me with anything further to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  party  has provided  anything further for me to consider,  I see no reason to 
depart from the findings set out in my provisional  decision. It follows that I uphold  this 
complaint for the same reasons as those  set out in my provisional decision.
putting things right
Where a business has done something wrong,  our service usually aims to put the consumer 
back in the position they wouldve  been in had the incident not occurred. However, in cases  
where a business  has lent irresponsibly, this isnt entirely possible  as the lending  provided 
cannot be undone.
Mr G has asked for the loan to be written off. But I dont think  that would be appropriate here. 
I think its fair that he should have to repay the money he borrowed and had the use of. But 
118 118 Money should refund all of the interest and charges Mr G has paid on his loan. 
I understand Mr G paid a total of £1,110.25 to 118 118 Money and the outstanding debt was 
sold onto a debt purchasing company. I understand that there may be a balance outstanding 
on it. So 118 118 Money should buy the debt back if it is able to do so and then take the 
following steps. 
If 118 118 Money is not able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve  the results outlined below:
a)118 Money should remove  all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance 
on the loan, and treat any repayments  made by Mr G as though they had been 
repayments of the principal, including repayments made to the third party.
If this results  in Mr G having made overpayments then 118 118 Money  should  refund 
these overpayments  with 8% simple interest*  calculated  on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. 
Ref: DRN49533112If there is an outstanding balance  then 118 118 Money should agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr G. It shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal 
it has already written-off.
b)118 Money should remove  any adverse information recorded  on Mr Gs credit file in 
relation to the loan from the date it was agree to the date of settlement.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money  to take off tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money must  give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he ask for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint against  Madison CF UK Limited and require them to pay Mr G the 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2020.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN49533113copy of my provisional decision
Complaint
Mr G has complained about  a loan he took out with Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 
Money. Mr G says it was irresponsible for the company to give him the loan as it should  have been 
obvious he could not afford to pay it back. 
Background
Mr G took out a loan with 118 118 Money online in August  2017 for a period  of 24 months. The loan 
was for £3,500 and had a monthly  repayment  of £268.81. The annual  percentage rate was 99.9%.  
The total interest to be charged on the loan was £2,951.44. The total amount to repay was therefore 
£6,451.44. The purpose of the loan was debt consolidation.
Mr G was unable to keep up repayments on the loan within a few months of taking it out and ended 
up on a debt management plan. 118 118 Money later sold this loan to another  business. 
Mr G says 118 118 Money shouldnt have approved the loan. He told us he was already in a lot of 
debt when he applied  for it and was struggling  financially. He says he was addicted to gambling and 
had mental  health problems and this is why he was in the difficult financial position  he was in at the 
time. He believes his financial situation should have been apparent  to 118 118 Money when it 
checked his credit  report. Hed like 118 118 Money to write off the loan or, failing that, refund all the 
interest applied to it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, they accepted that Mr G had outstanding  
debt when he took this loan out and was financially  stretched. But they thought  the consolidation of 
the debt would have  helped Mr G and that 118 118 Money had carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to assess whether or not to give Mr G the loan. So they didnt think  118 118 
Money had lent irresponsibly.
Mr G is unhappy with the adjudicators conclusion. He still believes 118 118 Money was irresponsible 
in providing  the loan to him and so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable I have taken into account  relevant  law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice;  and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. 
Taking this into account, I think  the overarching  questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstance  of this complaint are:
Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mr G 
would be able repay the loan in a sustainable way?  If not, would those  checks have shown 
that Mr G would have been able to do so?
Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably  in some  other way?
If I determine  that 118 118 Money  did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr G and that 
he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Ref: DRN49533114Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mr G would be 
able to repay  his loan in a sustainable way?
The regulations in place  when  118 118 Money lent to Mr G required  it to carry  out a reasonable 
assessment of whether  Mr G could  afford to repay  his loan in a sustainable manner. This is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability  check.
The affordability check  should  have been borrower-focused  so 118 118 Money  had to think about 
whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause financial difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mr G. In other words,  it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to only think  about  the likelihood that it 
would get its money back without considering  the impact of the loan repayments on Mr G himself.
The checks 118 118 Money carried  out also had to be proportionate  to the specific circumstances of 
the loan application.  In general, what constitutes a proportionate  affordability check will depend  on a 
number of factors including,  but not limited to, the particular circumstances of the borrower (e.g. their 
financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same customer, a 
proportionate check will more likely than not look different for different loan applications.
In light of that, I think reasonable and proportionate checks should generally be more  thorough:
- the lower a customers income (as it could be harder  to make any loan repayments from a 
lower income);
- the higher  the amount  to be repaid  (as it could be harder to meet  a higher repayment from a 
given income);
-the longer the term of the loan (as the total cost of the loan is likely to be greater and the 
customer is required to make payments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which  could  affect how detailed a proportionate check  should  be 
when it comes to a loan application  including,  but not limited to, any indications of borrower 
vulnerability and any foreseeable changes  in the consumers future circumstances. Ive thought about 
all the relevant factors  in this case.
Ive carefully considered what reasonable  and proportionate checks  should  have looked like
when 118 118 Money was in the process of approving  the loan for Mr G. And Ive thought  
carefully about what checks  118 118 Money say it carried out and whether those  were 
proportionate in the circumstances. 
The loan was for a relatively high amount  and was to be paid over two years. Due to the high 
interest charged, the overall amount Mr G would have to pay back was almost twice  what  he 
had borrowed and the monthly repayments  were  high. In these  circumstances, I would have 
expected 118 118 Money to carry out detailed checks when assessing whether or not to give 
Mr G this loan.
118 118 Money  says it did this by asking Mr G for details  of his income and expenditure and 
doing a credit  search. It also carried out a welcome call during which it asked Mr G whether 
there was likely to be any change  in his circumstances  and whether  he could afford the monthly  
payments. 
Ive looked at the information 118 118 Money  collected.  But it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money 
to just conduct  the checks  and not react to the information  it received. And I think the 
information the checks  revealed should have prompted 118 118 Money  to have carried out 
further checks  on Mr Gs financial circumstances. 
In particular, I think the information Mr G gave  118 118 Money about  his income  and 
Ref: DRN49533115expenditure should have prompted further checks. It would, or at least should, have been clear 
to 118 118 Money that the amount Mr G had given  as his expenditure on monthly  loan 
repayments was incorrect. He had stated  this was £100 but according to his credit file his 
monthly repayments towards loans was far higher  over £500. 
According to the credit search, Mr G appears to have had the following debt when he applied  for the 
loan:
An unsecured loan with a balance of £5,329 and monthly payments of £262.  
A high interest shorter  term loan with a balance of £558 and monthly  payments of £285.
A short term loan with a credit extension and outstanding  balance of £552.
A credit card with a balance of £944 and credit  limit of £1,000. The balance  history showed 
hed started  using the card in March   and had run the card up to almost the credit limit in the 
three months before he applied for the loan.  Hed also taken £400  in cash advances  in this 
time. 
An overdraft facility  of £2,250 of which  he had used £2,240.  Mr G had cleared the overdraft  
on this account in March  2017   possibly  using the larger loan he took at that time. But hed 
used almost the whole limit on this account again in the three months before the new loan 
application. 
So there was a clear  difference between what Mr G said his existing credit commitments were  
and what they really  were. And there were also indications that Mr G was relying  on increasing 
levels of borrowing. I dont think it was reasonable, in the circumstances,  for 118 118 Money  to 
rely solely on Mr Gs statement about his income  and expenditure without independently 
verifying it.
Further, although the application form said the loan was for debt consolidation, Mr Gs overall  
debt was much higher  than the £3,500 he was taking out with 118 118 Money. So it wasnt 
clear what  he would be able to consolidate or what effect that would  have on his ability  to 
sustain payments.  
Given the higher  credit  commitments and outgoings shown on his credit file, I would have 
expected 118 118 Money to find out from Mr G during the welcome call which debts he was 
intending to consolidate and whether this would have left him with a reasonable amount of 
disposable income  so that the loan was affordable to him without undue difficulties. 
However, 118 118 Money didnt take any steps to find out which debts,  if any, Mr G would  
actually be consolidating with this loan. So without knowing which  debts  Mr G would  be 
consolidating, 118 118 ran the risk this loan would put him in a worse position. And by failing to 
take account of which existing debts would be consolidated,  I have to question  how accurate 
any affordability assessment  going forward  would be.
So, I think based on the information it had  and given  the size and term of the loan  118 118 
Money should reasonably  have done more  to get a clearer picture  of Mr Gs financial situation 
before deciding  whether to lend.  I dont  think the checks  it carried out were reasonable and 
proportionate in Mr Gs case.  
Would proportionate checks on this loan have indicated to 118 118 Money that Mr G would have  been 
unable to repay it in a sustainable manner?
As I dont think 118 118 Money  carried out proportionate checks, Ive gone on to consider  what would 
have happened had 118 118 Money carried  out further checks. 
I cant  be sure what further checks  would  have been done or what they would have shown, so 
weve asked Mr G for more information about his circumstances at the time. Hes sent his 
statements and I think its likely that this is the sort of information the lender might have seen, if 
itd done better checks to start with. 
Ref: DRN49533116Ive looked at Mr Gs bank  statements for the three months before the loan application. These 
show he was having difficulties managing his money. In May 2017, Mr Gs income was around 
£1,985 (excluding short term loans) and his expenditure was £3,048.  So his expenditure  that 
month exceeded his income by around £1,000. The expenditure included  gambling transactions  
of around £1,400 and Mr G supplemented his income  with three short  term loans totalling  £992.  
But, even taking these  short  term loans  into account,  Mr Gs expenditure  still exceeded  what  
came into his account. 
In June 2017  Mr Gs expenditure again exceeded his income and I note that he had spent  at 
least £450 in gambling transactions. Although in July 2017 there dont appear to be any 
gambling transactions and Mr Gs income  exceeded his expenditure,  this was by only around 
£60  leaving  him with very little disposable income. And in August  2017,  Mr G had already 
taken out three short term loans to the value  of £653 by the time he made his loan application  
with 118 118 Money. 
I note that this pattern of taking out short  term loans is similar to what  Mr G had done in 2012 
and 2013 to try and resolve the financial difficulties  he was facing at that time.  But Mr G was 
unable to manage his money  at that time and ended up with a number of defaults. 118 118 
Money would  have seen this from the credit search they carried out.
As previously  mentioned, Mr G also had existing commitments which  he wouldnt have been able to 
consolidate. For example,  he would not have been able to pay off his existing loan of £5,329.  
Although there  was the possibility  of him consolidating the shorter term debts and his credit card his 
account would still have been significantly in overdraft and no consideration was made for how hed 
repay this sustainably as part of his expenditure. And he would still have been left with over £500 
towards loan repayments a month. 
Mr G had previously  taken  out a loan in March 2017 which appears to have repaid his overdraft but 
hed used almost the whole limit on this account again  in the three months before the new loan 
application in August 2017. By taking out this loan (August 2017)  Mr G ended up with a similar  level of 
repayments but over a longer term which would cost him more. 
From the way Mr G had been managing his accounts 118 118 Money  should  have known that it was 
unlikely that Mr G would be able to sustain the repayments for any significant period  of time.  And in 
fact he wasnt able to sustain his repayments, as he ran into difficulties meeting his repayments within  
a few months of taking this loan out.
I think  that, if 118 118 Money had carried out reasonable  and proportionate checks it would  have 
realised that the way Mr Gs account was being managed meant it would be irresponsible to give him 
the loan hed applied  for. So 118 118 Money acted irresponsibly by giving Mr G this loan.
As Mr G ended up paying interest and charges on a loan he couldnt reasonably have been expected 
to sustainably repay, I think that he lost out because  of what 118 118 Money did wrong.  
Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Mr G hasnt said 118 118 Money acted unfairly or unreasonably towards  him in some other way. And I 
havent seen anything else which would lead me to conclude that this was the case.
But as Ive found 118 118 Money acted irresponsibly  in give Mr G this loan, 118 118 Money should 
put things right as set out below.
Ref: DRN49533117Putting things right
Where a business has done  something wrong, our service usually aims to put the consumer back in 
the position they wouldve been in had the incident not occurred. However,  in cases where a business 
has lent irresponsibly, this isnt entirely  possible  as the lending provided cannot be undone.
Mr G has asked for the loan to be written off. But I dont think  that would be appropriate here. I think 
its fair that he should have to repay the money he borrowed and had the use of. But 118 118 Money 
should refund all of the interest and charges  Mr G has paid on his loan. 
I understand Mr G paid a total of £1,110.25 to 118 118 Money and the outstanding debt was sold onto 
a debt purchasing company. I understand that there may be a balance outstanding  on it. So 118 118 
Money should buy the debt back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. 
If 118 118 Money is not able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner  to 
achieve the results outlined below:
c)118 Money should remove all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance  on the 
loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr G as though they had been repayments of the 
principal, including  repayments made to the third party.
If this results in Mr G having made overpayments then 118 118 Money should  refund these  
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments,  from the date the 
overpayments would have  arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.  
If there  is an outstanding balance then 118 118 Money should agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr G. It shouldnt  pursue  outstanding balances made up of principal it has already 
written-off
d)118 Money should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit  file in relation to the 
loan from the date it was agree  to the date of settlement.
* HM Revenue & Customs  requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest.  118 118 Money  
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he ask for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  I intend to uphold Mr Gs complaint against  Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 
118 118 Money.  
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4953311