K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs P payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a secured loan in June  
2003. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs P disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Mr and Mrs Ps comments. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this 
complaint. I will explain  why:
From  what we know of Bank  of Scotlands usual practices  at the time, the documents 
Mr and Mrs P signed are likely to have presented the PPI as a choice. And I dont have 
strong evidence to show that Bank  of Scotland  didnt make clear  the PPI was optional;  or 
that it didnt ensure  that Mr and Mrs P freely chose to take it. Without stronger evidence, 
it wouldnt be fair for me to say that Bank  of Scotland acted wrongly in that way.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Being unable  to 
pay a secured loan can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have  paid benefits  
at the same time as Mr P (the person covered) received  any employer sick pay, and 
potentially for longer.  It would  have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any 
redundancy pay. And it would have  put off the time when they would need to fall back on 
any savings. This all would have put Mr and Mrs P in a more  secure  position,  if they 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been 
told anything to suggest they couldnt  afford the PPI when they took it out.
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have 
affected whether  Mr and Mrs P took the PPI.
The monthly price of the policy was shown on the loan document, and I think its likely  
the cost was set out during the application process. So I think  Mr and Mrs P would have 
understood how much it would  cost. 
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr and Mrs P would  have been affected  by any of these. 
Ref: DRN44494362my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  3 July 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4449436