K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains he wasnt informed  by The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance  
Society Limited (NFU)  that his life assurance  policy had come to an end in April 2017 and he 
feels that NFU shouldve done more to ensure he knew he was no longer covered. 
background
Mr M took out a life insurance policy in April 1997 which was set to run for 20 years.  
The policy ended at the end of the 20 year term in April 2017.
Our adjudicator didnt  think NFU had done anything wrong, so he didnt uphold the case. 
Mr M disagreed with these findings  saying that NFU should have to inform him that the 
policy would expire  and that NFU shouldve sent him a letter by recorded delivery. As a 
result Mr M was uninsured for around two years. Mr M says that had he been made aware 
he wouldve renewed  the policy at that time,  but taking out a new life insurance will now be 
more costly. The case has now been passed  to me to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator and I do not think this complaint should be upheld.  
NFU says it did send Mr M a letter informing him that the policy was due to expire  three 
months before the end of the term. NFU has provided a system  screen  shot which indicates 
a letter  was produced for Mr M on 12 January 2017. It has also provided a copy  of the letter 
dated 12 January  2017 clearly stating the policy was due to end, which it says it sent Mr M. 
Mr M says he didnt  receive this, but the letter is correctly addressed  and Ive not seen any 
persuasive reason  why he wouldnt  have received it. I cant fairly conclude that this letter 
was never  sent to Mr M at the time.  
Mr M says NFU shouldve sent this letter by recorded delivery to ensure  that it reached him. 
Ive thought about this but I think it was reasonable for NFU to send  this letter  via regular 
post, as it had done with other  correspondence  sent to Mr M. And I dont agree NFU needed  
to follow  this up with a phone call or further letter. 
There is evidence that a meeting took place  in April 2017. Both parties agree that this 
meeting happened, but Mr M says his life assurance policy wasnt discussed, NFU says it 
thinks it was discussed  as this was on the agenda  for the meeting. In either  event, I dont 
think NFU was required to meet with Mr M to inform  him his policy  had come  to an end. So 
even if it wasnt discussed at the time, I dont think NFU did anything wrong here.  
Overall, I think NFU acted reasonably in the circumstances, making Mr M aware of the end 
of his policy through its usual process.  So I dont  think NFU has done anything wrong and I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN44361782my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4436178