K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr and Mrs T say HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold  them  the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs T took out a PPI policy when they transferred their existing mortgage  to HSBC in 
2003. They  paid a monthly amount for the PPI. 
Even though this was a joint mortgage, only Mr T was covered by the PPI. If he had made  a 
successful claim  for accident,  sickness or unemployment, the policy  would have paid out the 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I appreciate  Mr and Mrs T have been waiting a long 
time for this answer and that this will come as a disappointment  to them.  Ill explain my 
reasons for reaching this conclusion.  
I think HSBC made it clear that Mr and Mrs T didnt have to take out the PPI and that they 
chose to take it. Ive seen  a copy of the financial  planning review which was completed  with 
an advisor in branch.  In this document there is information about the type of borrowing 
recommended for the mortgage along with information about insurance products available,  
including PPI. I can see the advisor recommended  that Mr and Mrs T look at taking out 
various products  but they decided against some of the recommendations. This suggests that 
Mr and Mrs T had a conversation with an advisor  about the different products  available  and 
decided that they would  take out the PPI. 
So based  on the information  I have  available to me, I think HSBC made Mr and Mrs T aware  
the policy was optional and they agreed to take it out, knowing they could  refuse it if they 
didnt want it.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr T only, as Mrs T circumstances meant she wasnt  eligible 
for the cover. This means it had to take reasonable steps to recommend something that was 
suitable for him. And based on what Ive been  told about his circumstances,  I think  it was. I 
say this because  he appears to have been eligible  for the policy  and doesnt seem  to have  
been affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations to the policy cover,  such as having 
unusual working  arrangements  or suffering from a medical condition of which he was already 
aware.
Mr T has told us he was self-employed at the time of taking out the PPI policy  and therefore 
this policy  wasnt suitable for him. He has told us he became  unwell several years ago and 
Ref: DRN47058912couldnt work but the terms of the policy meant  he needed to cease trading in order to claim. 
Mr T has said if he had been made  aware  of this he wouldnt have taken the policy out. Ive 
looked at the policy terms and conditions that were issued at the time of the sale and the 
terms relating to ceasing trading, which Mr T has referred to, are purely  for unemployment  
claims  there isnt such a requirement  for claims for accident and sickness.  If Mr T was 
unable to work for an extended period due to illness and wishes to make a claim under the 
policy, he should contact  the insurers to discuss making a retrospective  claim. So I dont 
think that this policy  was unsuitable  for Mr T as a result of his employment status.
I have seen that Mr T may have had other types  of insurance product, including life and 
critical illness cover, but these provide  a different type of protection to PPI. There  is mention 
on some  of the documents of Mr T having  some form of income protection policy in place 
but, from the limited  information I have seen, this policy had a 13 week waiting period before 
any payment would be made and the benefit  was quite low, compared  to his monthly 
income. By having  the PPI policy  he would  have been able to meet  his monthly  mortgage 
repayments and use the benefit  he received  from any other  policies to cover essential living 
expenses. As it appears Mr T was the main earner in the household, I think having this policy 
would have given  them the reassurance that they would be able to continue paying their 
mortgage if something was to go wrong.  So I do think this policy could provide them  with a 
useful benefit.
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T. 
But HSBC  will pay back  some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T because:
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs T about that. Because HSBC  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs T, that was unfair.
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair 
in this case.
what the business needs  to do
HSBC has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs T any commission  and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should also pay back to Mr and Mrs T any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
HSBC should  pay back to Mr and Mrs T the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. HSBC should 
also pay Mr and Mrs T 8%* simple  interest  on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs T can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC Bank Plc does  not have to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But HSBC Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
Ref: DRN47058913Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4705891