K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  didnt tell him they would 
register a default  in relation to his current account overdraft. He says the default  marker on 
his credit file has prevented him from re-mortgaging his house.
background
Mr R had a joint current account with his ex-wife, who Ill refer to as B. Mr R and B separated  
and in 2015, he went into a branch of Halifax to close  the account. But, Mr R says Halifax 
could only close the account with Bs signature. Mr R says B wasnt prepared to do this.
Later the same year, Mr R says Halifax changed  their rules and although they could now 
close the account with just his signature, they could  only do so if the overdraft on the 
account was repaid.  Mr R made some payments to the account, although he continued to 
use it over the next two years.  
In 2017, B withdrew money from the joint account  taking  the balance  back  to its overdraft 
limit. Mr R told Halifax what had happened and they arranged for a hold to be placed on the 
account, meaning any further  transactions would be stopped. Mr R says he understood this 
to mean  charges and interest  would also be frozen,  until Halifax  had investigated Bs 
withdrawal.
Despite Mr Rs understanding, interest  and charges began to accrue and no payments were 
made by him or B. Eventually, Halifax closed the account in September  2017  and started 
action to recover the outstanding debt. They also applied a default  marker to each of Mr R 
and Bs credit files. Mr R says he only found this out when he was looking to re-mortgage  his 
house in 2018.
Mr R complained to Halifax in September 2018. He said they didnt tell him about  the 
overdrawn balance increasing,  or that they would apply a default marker to his credit file. In 
their final response,  Halifax said that the hold on the account didnt mean that interest  and 
charges would be suspended. They also said they sent letters  to Mr R and B regarding  the 
debt and that a default  may be applied  if the overdraft wasnt  repaid.
Mr R didnt accept Halifaxs explanation and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators reviewed the complaint and was persuaded Halifax  sent warnings to Mr R and 
told him what could happen if the overdraft wasnt repaid. She also concluded that Mr R was 
able to check the balance of his account between 2015 and 2017.
Mr R disagreed with that conclusion.  He said he didnt receive any warning letters from 
Halifax and that there  is no evidence to show they were even sent.  He also said he thought 
the account was frozen in 2017  which meant  the overdrawn  balance should not have 
increased. Mr Rs case  has now been  referred  to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I realise this isnt 
the outcome Mr R was hoping for, Ive come  to the same  overall  conclusions  as the 
investigator did, for much the same reasons.
Ref: DRN40570752Bs authority for us to look into this case
We would  usually need the authority of each party to look into a complaint  about a joint 
account. We dont  have Bs authority  to consider this case. But, given the personal 
circumstances Mr R has told us about, I dont think its likely well get Bs authority. So, I 
dont think it would be fair on Mr R to stop him from bringing a complaint about this account, 
when his concerns  are about the impact Halifaxs actions have had on his own credit file. 
Mr Rs awareness  of the account balance
I have considered extracts from records kept by Halifax which show the contact they had 
with Mr R. Ive also considered the statements  for the account he had with B. I agree that 
Halifax told Mr R that they would place a hold on the joint account on the same  day of Bs 
withdrawal. Halifax have  been unable to send  us a copy of the call they had with Mr R when 
the hold was placed on the account. So, I have  to consider all the other  information  available 
to decide if Mr R was unaware charges and interest  will still be applied to the account  
balance.
Mr R used the account until the day Halifax placed a hold on it. Even though  the hold was 
present, the account was open  for four and a half months, until it was closed and passed to 
a debt recovery agent. Mr R had access to the account balance  throughout this time and it 
would have been particularly concerning for him, in light of Bs withdrawal. So, I think he was 
able to keep an eye on what was happening with the account regardless of whether or not 
he received the regular  bank statements sent by Halifax. 
Halifax have not provided copies of the statements that were  sent to Mr R over the four 
months Ive considered. But, they have shown  the dates the statements were produced and 
that they were  sent to Mr Rs address, along with showing a list of the transactions. Ive also 
considered that Halifax have  been very specific about the arrears letters that were  sent.  
In all the circumstances, I am persuaded that the statements and the arrears  letters  were  
created as they normally would have been. I have already concluded it was reasonable for 
Mr R to have checked  his account, given  his thoughts about Bs actions. So, I think  Mr R 
was in the position to be aware that the hold placed on the account didnt mean interest and 
charges would be prevented from being  applied to the overdrawn balance. And if he did 
have any concerns, he was able to raise them with Halifax directly.
The final demand  letter sent to Mr R
I asked Halifax for evidence that they told Mr R about how much  he needed to repay and 
when, to avoid  a default from being recorded  on his credit  file. Halifax  have sent us the 
section of their internal  records to show that a demand letter, warning of the default, was 
sent to Mr Rs address.  
Halifax didnt provide their contact  records when our investigator  was looking at the case. 
Ive since asked Mr R for his comments on this information and he has questioned the 
validity of the contact records. I have considered this, but I am satisfied that the contact 
records between Mr R and Halifax are genuine. I think the reason this information didnt 
come to light before,  was because Halifax were reluctant to provide information  when B 
hadnt given her authorisation to be part of this case.  But, Ive concluded that we can look 
into Mr Rs case  without that authorisation.
Ref: DRN40570753The contact  records show that the final demand  letter was sent three months before the 
account closed.  So, in all the circumstances, I think Halifax told Mr R about the overdrawn 
balance with enough time so that he could take action.
Halifax have also sent us a template of the demand letter,  so we can see the type of 
information it gave  to Mr R. I can see that the demand letter  says that a default marker will 
not be registered with the credit reference agencies, if the overdrawn balance  does not 
increase. The template  also allows  Halifax to include a date when the repayment of the 
unplanned overdraft  must be made by. So, I think the letter  sent to Mr R told him how much  
he had to pay, a date when he had to pay it and what  could happen if he didnt.
Because the overdrawn balance of the account did increase without any further payment 
from Mr R, I think Halifax  were able to register  a default with the credit  reference agencies. 
Mr R says that Bs credit file doesnt show a default, so hes been treated unfairly. I 
understand why Mr R says this, as hes only seen what  has happened to him. But, Halifax 
say they are holding both B and Mr R jointly liable for the overdraft debt. And from looking at 
the contact records  for the joint account, I think Halifax are holding  Mr R and B equally 
responsible for the repayment of the overdraft debt.
In all the circumstances, I think Halifax told Mr R how much he needed  to repay, and when 
he needed to repay  it by, to avoid a default  marker on his credit file. So, I dont think the fair 
outcome is for me to require Halifax to ask the credit reference agencies  they subscribe  to, 
to remove it. As the overdraft debt remains with Halifax, albeit assigned to a debt recovery  
agent, I would expect them to treat Mr R fairly  when  it comes  to reviewing his repayment 
plan.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4057075