K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd (CTI) have failed to appropriately 
settle his claim following  water damage  at his property.
Mr S has been represented  by a loss assessor throughout the claim and complaint. However 
for ease  of reading  all references to Mr S include  the actions of his representative,  except 
where they are referred to directly.
background
Mr S owns  the freehold of a property. Through the leaseholder he has home insurance with 
CTI. In 2013 there was a leak into the property following a storm. He made a claim on the 
insurance.
CTI accepted the claim and initially offered a cash settlement for the drying and strip out 
works, as Mr S wanted to use his own contractors. Mr S contractors carried out the strip out 
works and started  the drying.
CTI also provided a scope  of works  for the repairs to the damage and offered a cash  
settlement based  on this amount.
Over the next few years no agreement was reached as to the settlement amount. Mr S loss 
assessor said the initial settlement was too low and CTI increased it to try and resolve the 
claim. 
As the claim had been ongoing for a long time without reaching  agreement,  CTI arranged for 
its contractors to revisit the property and produce another scope of works in 2016.  On 
visiting the property  they found that the damp  proofing in the walls had been damaged when  
the strip out works took place. And the property was still very wet. They  said that this 
damage wouldnt be covered under the policy due to the fact it had been  caused by Mr S 
own contractors and not CTIs. CTI confirmed that the cash settlement  would  therefore  
remain the same.
No agreement was reached in the coming years and Mr S made a complaint to CTI about 
the delay to the claim. He said he had now lost out on many  years of rent due to the claim 
taking so long to settle and this should be paid.  
CTI failed to respond to the complaint in the relevant time frame and Mr S brought his 
complaint to us to look into.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  He 
said CTI had offered  a reasonable  offer to settle  the claim initially,  and he hadnt seen 
sufficient evidence to suggest this should  be increased. He also said that he couldnt see 
CTI were  responsible for the delays to the claim so didnt agree loss of rent should  be paid.
Mr S didnt agree with this view. He said that CTIs failure to deal with the claim had led to 
further damage and loss of rent which it should now cover the cost of. He asked  for his 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN45701342my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S claim has now been ongoing for more than six years  without a resolution. This is an 
exceptionally long time for a claim of this type. As I understand it, his property has still not 
been repaired and is in a worsening state because of this. I can understand how distressing 
such a long insurance claim would be for Mr S. 
However it is my role to consider whether CTI has handled the claim fairly and reasonably. I 
have also considered the delays caused and whether these could have been avoided by 
CTI, in order  to decide what should be done to put things right.  
Claim Settlement
CTI originally offered  a final settlement based on the work required to restore  the property. 
Mr S didnt think this was sufficient. So I have considered whether this settlement was fair 
and reasonable.
Initially the cost of the drying and strip out works  was agreed and a settlement of around 
£4800 was paid for this work to begin. However after this, the settlement for the rest of the 
repair work was never agreed.
CTI offered  around £20,000 to begin  with and later  in 2016  agreed  to increase this to 
£25,000 in order  to bring the case to a resolution. Mr S has repeatedly said that this wasnt 
enough to cover the repairs  necessary.  However  on re-visits by CTIs agents, they have 
raised concerns  from as early as 2014 that additional damage to the house had been 
caused by the lack of action to repair the damage. 
Further CTI has pointed  out that during  the strip out works the damp proofing in the walls  
had been damaged. Mr S has said that this was necessary due to the fact the damp proofing 
had been damaged by the flood.  However  no evidence of this has been provided. 
CTIs settlement is based  on a report drawn up by a contractor who visited the property. I 
have seen that this has been  revised  as the claim progressed, including  an increase beyond 
what CTI consider part of its liability in order  to bring the case  to a resolution. Although Mr S 
has said this isnt sufficient, he hasnt provided  evidence to show this is the case.  I therefore  
think the offer is fair and reasonable. As I have seen no evidence  to show  that it wasnt  
sufficient to cover the repair work.
I understand that the property is now in a worse state and will require more  repair  work than 
it would  have done. However CTI warned that as work hasnt been completed and the damp 
proofing was removed that the property would deteriorate.  And it seems likely  that this is 
what has happened. So I dont doubt that more repair work is now necessary. And this will 
cost more than the settlement offered. However I dont think this is CTIs liability under the 
policy. And it warned  on a number of occasions  that the property would deteriorate if no work 
was carried out. So I think the offer CTI made is fair and I wont  interfere in this or ask it to do 
anything further.
Delays
Ref: DRN45701343There is no doubt that this claim has gone on for a considerable amount of time  much 
longer than we would expect for one of this type.  And I understand it must have been  
distressing for Mr S to see his property  deteriorate during this time. However when 
considering this complaint I have to look at whether  CTI caused avoidable delays.
I have looked  at all the correspondence  and progress of the claim across the six years.  To 
begin with the claim  was progressed as we would expect. CTI were  proactive and provided 
updates to Mr S. It was around 2016  that it started to slow down.  And over the coming years 
the correspondence broke down  between the two parties.
Having looked  at the emails between the two however, I cant say that CTI should have done 
anything differently. It is the job of an insurer to assess a claim and offer a suitable 
settlement. As I have explained above, I am satisfied this is what  it did. The reason for the 
delays in the claim from that point are largely  down to no agreement  being reached. And not 
because CTI wasnt fulfilling its role. Mr S didnt  agree to the cash settlement offered. But 
didnt want the work  completed by CTI. As these are the only options  under the policy, I can 
understand why the claim stalled at this point, as there seemed no reasonable way forward.
CTI gave Mr S the opportunity to provide  additional evidence to support the points he raised 
and this was never  provided. So when considering what CTI may have done differently to 
avoid the long delay in the resolution, I dont think this could  be avoided. The only thing it 
could have done is paid the final amount  offered as a cash  settlement without agreement,  in 
order to resolve the claim. However I dont think this would have changed the position.  From  
what Ive seen Mr S still wouldnt have been happy with this amount.
So although  I appreciate the claim has taken a long time to resolve, I dont  think this is due 
to CTI. It has paid Mr S loss of rent for the time the repairs would have taken to carry out. 
And this has reached  the policy limit. As I dont think CTI has caused the additional delays,  I 
dont agree that it is fair to ask it to pay any further  loss of rent. Or to pay compensation. So I 
wont ask CTI to do anything differently in regards to this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont require China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd to do 
anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 August 2020
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4570134