K821x#15complaint
Mr G says Santander UK Plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy 
alongside a loan.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2009.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive considered what Santander  has said, but Ive still decided  to uphold  Mr Gs complaint. 
This is because I dont think Santander gave  Mr G clear  enough  information  about the costs 
and benefits of the policy at the point he actually  applied  for the PPI. Better details  were  only 
given with the loan agreement, and it would have  taken Mr G quite some effort  to go back 
and change the arrangement. I think this would have mattered to Mr G because  the cost of 
the PPI was a fairy high proportion of the overall monthly payment, and I think Mr G is likely 
to have thought the cost too high. He also had employee sickness  benefits and some  
savings to help pay for the loan if he lost his income  for a while. 
So I think Mr G lost out as a result of Santanders shortcomings in the sale process. 
fair compensation
Santander UK Plc should put Mr G in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and Santander UK Plc 
should:
Pay Mr G the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.  
If Mr G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander UK Plc can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander UK Plc must  give Mr G a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
Mr G should refer back to Santander if unsure of the approach it has taken and both parties 
should contact  HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know  more about  the tax treatment of 
this portion of the compensation. 
Ref: DRN44202302my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
I require Santander  UK Plc to pay Mr G compensation in accordance  with the calculation of 
redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4420230