K822xcomplaint
A, a limited  company, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc closed its bank account 
and did not return  its money causing  it financial loss and inconvenience.
 
background 
NatWest wrote to A on 14 March 2018 giving it 14 days notice of the closure of its account. 
NatWest said that any credit balance could then be withdrawn from a branch. That was not 
correct and NatWest wrote to A on 4 April 2018 saying it would let A know  when the funds 
were available. This did not happen and NatWest  did not confirm  the funds  of £9,840.18 
were available until 27 June 2018 - after the complaint was referred  to this service. A says 
this affected its trading  and that it had to take loans,  incur  additional costs  and could  not pay 
its tax bill. It was also caused  inconvenience. NatWest offered to pay A £150.
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint  be upheld in part. He recommended A also 
be paid eight per cent simple interest  on the credit balance. NatWest  offered to pay this from 
the time the money  was actually available from NatWest - on 10 April 2018  - to the time 
NatWest told this service about it on 27 June  2018  which would be £168.  The adjudicator 
said that this would be reasonable and that:
-A had not been able to show that it had made financial losses as a result  of the delay 
in the receipt of its money. 
-A could  have contacted NatWest again if it was subject to financial pressures to 
avoid any other  borrowing being  taken.
-He was not able to be clear how borrowing referred to by A and taken in the director  
of As name or guaranteed by him was necessary and especially at the rate of 
interest that had been quoted. There was no direct link established to A.
-The director had access to a business  account  at another  financial business and was 
able to receive payments into that from 4 April 2018. So he did not think there were 
grounds for A to claim £500 for time spent for A on this matter by the director.
-The evidence about a tax payment did not say when  it was incurred or first became 
due.
-An award would not be appropriate for the costs of the legal  representative A had 
used to help bring the complaint.
The director  of A said he did not agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that NatWest acted in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the account  when it gave A notice that it was going to close  it. And I 
understand why the funds were then available to A from 10 April 2018.
NatWest clearly gave A incorrect  information  when it said that it could access  funds from a 
branch before that date.  And also when it later wrote to A on 4 April 2018 and said that it 
would tell A when  the funds were available.  It has said that this was not the process  and it 
was up to A to continue  to check when the funds were available. Whether A knew  that or not 
Ref: DRN42317192I agree  with the adjudicator that if the withholding of these funds was causing it financial 
issues I think A could reasonably have checked again what  was happening with the money.
A had access to a bank  account at another financial business. And I can see that it gave 
those details to one of its clients on an invoice dated 22 March 2018. As the adjudicator says 
payments were made  into that account  from 4 April 2018. As Ive said NatWest  did not make 
a mistake in closing As account and I dont  find that there was significant  disruption here. I 
note that A has not provided  any evidence  to support its claim that there was.
But A also says its director had to arrange  borrowing elsewhere to compensate for not 
having access to the funds in the account. A first loan of £9,000 was said to be taken on 25 
March 2018 so A could pay an invoice to a creditor.  The loan was not to A but to the director. 
And it was given by a private individual who wanted  interest of £1,000  for the term of one 
month. This was said to be taken in cash and there is no evidence showing it was used and 
paid back by A. The interest rate was also high and it is not clear why this would have been 
the most  effective source of finance.
The other loan taken on 29 June 2018 of £5,000 referred to was also not taken by A. It was 
guaranteed by As director and was said to be a loan for the director of a company  A owed 
money to. This was said to be instead  of A paying an invoice to that company. This was an 
unusual arrangement and again attracted a high rate of interest. 
Im not persuaded that there are grounds  for me to say that NatWest  should be responsible 
for paying interest on any of this borrowing. There is no clear link to any financial loss by A, 
and it is not shown that this was the most  effective form of finance. In my judgement  A hasnt 
established a loss from not having  the money in its account and that includes from its claim 
that it was not able to pay its tax bill. And in the award Im going  to be making  below A is 
compensated for being deprived  of its money  at eight per cent simple interest. I think thats  
reasonable.
A has asked  that NatWest  pay the fees of its legal representative of over £1,200. We rarely 
make an award for professional costs.  And I dont think it would be reasonable to do so in 
this case. There are no particular features of the complaint that meant that specialist input 
was required.
As I said I am going  to be making  an interest award  to reflect that the funds were not 
available to A. I asked  the adjudicator to clarify what had been offered and the reasons why. 
NatWest maintained that its offer for this complaint is fair and reasonable. Having considered  
this based on the circumstances of this complaint and the comments  made  by A about what  
has been offered  by NatWest I agree.
I am also considering  compensation  for inconvenience. That is fairly  due for the incorrect  
information given  to A. But A had an operating account elsewhere and was on notice to 
make other arrangements  for its banking  from NatWest.  I consider the amount offered  of 
£150 is reasonable.
Ref: DRN42317193my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and require National Westminster  Bank  Plc 
to:
1)Pay A simple interest of £168.
2)Pay A compensation of £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4231719