K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A say Santander UK Plc (trading  at the time as Alliance & Leicester) mis-sold them 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs A took out a PPI policy in July 2004 when they were applying for a mortgage in 
one of the banks branches. The policy gave them cover against accident,  sickness and 
unemployment. They paid a monthly  amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs A disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs A that the PPI was optional and they had to 
agree to take it out. Mr and Mrs A believe  this policy was added without their knowledge or 
consent. I cant know what was said in the meeting or how the PPI was described to Mr and 
Mrs A. So Ive thought  carefully about  what theyve  told us and looked  at the available  
paperwork from the sale. 
On their mortgage interview  record the options to select or decline PPI were set out with 
equal prominence  and Yes was selected.  They signed this document  to confirm it was an 
accurate record of the meeting. From  what we know about how Santander sold PPI at the 
time, they then wouldve  had to complete and sign a separate  PPI application form and 
direct debit mandate. Santander cant provide copies of these documents  but thats not 
unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. And I havent found  any evidence to 
suggest the banks standard sales process  wasnt followed. I have seen a copy of the letter 
they were sent about PPI after the meeting.  This begins Thank you for making  such  a 
positive choice which to me suggests the policy was presented  as optional in the meeting. 
So on balance I think Santander made it clear to Mr and Mrs A that the PPI was optional and 
they agreed to take it out.
I think Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs A so it had to make  sure it was right 
for them. Based on their circumstances  at the time I think  it was suitable. I say this because:
They were  eligible  for the cover. And it seems there wasnt  anything in the PPI that 
would make  it difficult for them to claim  for example,  the type of employment  contract  
they had when the PPI was sold or any pre-existing  medical conditions. So they 
wouldnt have  been affected by the main exclusions or limitations in the policy.
Mr A was entitled  to between three  and six months sick pay and Mrs A was entitled  to 
less than three  months sick pay. But the PPI wouldve  paid out in addition  to any work  
Ref: DRN49136312benefits and for up to 12 months for each successful accident,  sickness  or 
unemployment claim. Mr and Mrs A initially said they had another  insurance  policy  that 
offered the same  protection  but it seems  that was in fact this PPI policy. So overall, 
I think the policy would have been useful  to them if Mr or Mrs A were  sick or lost their 
job(s).
Ive seen nothing to suggest  the policy was unaffordable at the time of the sale.
Santander also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading at the time 
of the sale. Its possible  it didnt give all the details it should have. However, for the same 
reasons I find the policy was suitable,  I dont think better information wouldve changed their 
decision. I say this as Mr and Mrs A dont appear to have been affected  by any of main 
exclusions or limitations, and the PPI was competitively  priced and apparently affordable.  
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs A about that. Because Santander didnt  tell 
Mr and Mrs A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs A any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs A any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs A the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr and Mrs A 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs A can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
Ref: DRN49136313my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs A any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 February  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4913631