K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  
policy. 
background
In 1995 Mr P took out a loan in one of the banks branches along with a PPI policy to protect 
the loan monthly  repayments. He borrowed extra and paid upfront for the PPI. So the cost of 
the policy was added  to the loan and interest  charged. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr P disagrees. 
Mr Ps main complaint is that he didnt realise he had PPI. Mr P says hes sure he wasnt 
aware of this extra cost when  he was taking out the loan and he wouldnt have agreed to it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. 
Lloyds couldnt  provide  Mr Ps signed  credit  agreement. But it isnt surprising, given how long 
ago this sale happened, that paperwork isnt still available. I wouldnt expect the bank  or 
Mr P to have kept this. 
And I cant know exactly what  was discussed  when Mr P arranged  his loan. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  him to recall  in detail what was said at the time. Its completely 
understandable that Mr P has forgotten some  of the details of a sale that took place so long 
ago. So I cant just rely on what Mr P can remember now. 
Ive seen an example  of the loan agreement that Mr P wouldve had to sign to get his loan. 
Theres a section on the form headed OPTIONAL LOAN REPAYMENT PROTECTION and 
there are YES and NO tick boxes.
The NO box is clearly shown on the form. I think that Mr P wouldve seen this. And he 
couldve marked this box if he hadnt wanted  PPI.  
So I think the wording  and layout of the loan agreement highlights the fact that PPI was a 
matter of choice. And its likely that PPI was added to Mr Ps loan account  as he indicated on 
the form that he wanted to have it. 
Lloyds told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from the date Mr P took out 
PPI. But it has provided a policy document which was in use shortly afterwards  so I think  
its likely  that in all main  respects the policy that Mr P took out wouldve had similar  terms 
and conditions.
Ref: DRN45347472Lloyds says it advised Mr P to have PPI, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him 
based on what I know about Mr Ps circumstances at the time. 
If hed made  a successful  accident or sickness claim, it looks  like the policy wouldve paid 
out for as long as Mr P was off work   if necessary, until the loan was paid off. This was 
significantly better cover than Mr P couldve  depended on getting from his employer if he 
was off sick.
And the policy couldve also covered the loan monthly repayments for up to 12 months  if 
Mr P lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work.  Mr P doesnt appear to have had any 
significant other means he couldve used to cover the loan monthly repayments if he wasnt  
working. So I cant say that Mr P didnt need PPI or that Lloyds recommendation wasnt 
suitable.  
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Mr Ps case. So, I dont think more information about  the policy exclusions and limitations  
wouldve changed his mind about having PPI. And I dont think  the policy terms wouldve 
meant it was any harder for Mr P to make  a claim than it wouldve been  for anyone else in 
his employment  situation. 
Its unlikely that Lloyds explained  when  Mr P bought the cover  that he wouldnt get a 
proportionate refund on the PPI if he paid the loan off early.  But theres no indication  he was 
likely to do this when  he took it out, so I dont think that wouldve affected his decision to buy 
the policy. 
Lloyds set out details showing what the PPI premium would cost and what the total loan 
would be on the loan agreement - so Mr P wouldve been able to see this. I agree that it 
mightnt have been clear  how much interest  hed pay. But I dont believe the amount 
wouldve been enough to put Mr P off taking  out the PPI. It appears that Mr P chose to buy 
the cover  when he didnt have  to  and I can understand  why. I think the policy  offered  him 
useful benefits  in his particular situation and his monthly repayments seem  to have been 
affordable. I dont think that having better information about the policy  wouldve  made  any 
difference. 
This means  I dont  find that Mr P has lost out as a result of anything that Lloyds mightve 
done wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4534747