K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (Halifax), have not provided 
sufficient redress for a claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (section 75).
background 
Mr M bought  a new phone  in May 2015 using his Halifax credit card. The phone  cost 
£607.20. He had problems with the phones volume and with calls dropping  out and the 
merchants attempts to resolve the issue were unsuccessful.
In September  2018 an agreement was therefore  struck with the merchant who agreed  to 
provide an upgraded model  for an additional contribution  of £400. Mr M paid for this with his 
Halifax credit  card.
But that phone failed too and repairs were unsuccessful. So in February  2019  Mr M made a 
section 75 claim to Halifax who he said he had a like claim against as they were the 
providers of the credit.
Halifax offered to refund £849  plus interest.  They said this was the market valuation  of the 
replacement phone and they explained  the phone would need  to be returned  to them. They  
also agreed to pay Mr M £200  because  they accepted they had provided poor service when 
handling his calls.
But Mr M was disappointed with their offer. He thought they should refund all of the money 
hed paid for both phones  and he thought  they should offer more compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience theyd caused  him. So he referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator thought Halifax had made a reasonable offer.  She agreed that there was 
clear evidence both phones hadnt  been  of an unacceptable standard  and in those 
circumstances she thought Halifax should have  approved Mr Ms claim. However, she noted 
that Mr M had had some use from both phones.  She thought the difference between what 
Halifax were proposing and what Mr M had paid out, of a little over £159,  was a reasonable 
cost of use. 
She understood that the service Mr M had received from Halifax had not been good  but she 
thought their offer of £200  in compensation was reasonable in the circumstances. So, 
overall, she didnt  think  Halifax had been  unreasonable and she didnt think they needed to 
take any further action.
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicator. He said thered only been  a short  time of trouble free 
ownership of the phones  and hed had to spend money visiting  the store to try to get a 
resolution. He also disputed the £200  compensation Halifax  had paid him; he said it was 
insufficient and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN42374902I know it will disappoint Mr M but I agree  with the adjudicators opinion. Please  let me 
explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr M made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Its clear that both phones  provided  to Mr M were  of unsatisfactory quality. That issue  isnt 
disputed but what  is being questioned is whether a full refund should be provided.
I think the refund of £859 that Halifax have offered is reasonable in the circumstances. 
I dont think Halifax needed  to take into account  the value of the first phone  as I think an 
agreement was reached to supply another  one and its reasonable to suggest that was a 
settlement of the first issue. So Halifax needed  to consider what deduction to make  for fair 
use and I think a reasonable  approach  to that would be to repay  the current  market value.
And even  if Im wrong  about  that, I think a deduction  of £159 for about four years, of 
understandably impaired use, is reasonable.
Ive considered whether the compensation payment made by Halifax for the poor customer  
service they admitted was reasonable. I understand Mr M is upset about this and Ive read 
his explanation of the issues hes experienced. I understand that he must have felt 
embarrassed when  the call handler  hed complained  about rang him and I can sympathise 
with his distress at not being called back and the other issues he described. But in the 
circumstances I think Halifax have offered sufficient compensation for the trouble and upset  
caused and Im not asking them to make any further payments with regard  to customer 
service or the settlement  of Mr Ms claim.
Ref: DRN42374903my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4237490