K822xcomplaint
Mr G is unhappy that, following settling his home insurance claim to Legal & General 
Insurance Limited (L&G)  for damage  caused by an escape of water,  further damage has 
occurred. 
background 
Mr G made  his initial claim in August 2016. He had substantial  water damage to his house 
caused by a leak from his upstairs  shower  room.  Water had come through the ceilings 
particularly into the hall and kitchen. But water damage was identified to all the downstairs 
rooms and the stairs landing, shower  room  and main bathroom. Mr G negotiated a 
settlement to enable  him to have the repairs carried out by his own contractors, the bulk of 
which was paid to him in November 2016.
In April 2017 Mr G reported  that there was a patch  of wet plaster in the living room. He was 
asked to get a damage report.  Then in January 2018 Mr G reported  severe  cracking to the 
ceiling in the living room. He had consulted a builder who said the joists must have been still 
wet when the ceiling repairs were done.
L&G instructed  the original drying company who reattended and reported  back  that the 
property was dry but recommended that the cracking to the ceiling be inspected. L&G then 
sent out a surveyor  who advised that the damage wasnt related to the previous escape of 
water claim. It recommended repairs just to the ceiling estimated at £400   L&G offered this 
to Mr G to deal with the repair.
Mr G instructed his own surveyor who reported back that the extensive water damage
from the earlier leak had caused movement in both the timber floor joists and the chipboard
sheeting. As the sheeting was fitted tightly to the joists with nails (unlike floorboards)
the floor joists subsequently  bowed and twisted.  He recommended  the replacing of the floor
joists. With associated work this would  be a very substantial repair.
Our investigator thought that the findings of Me Gs surveyor were more  persuasive than
those of L&Gs surveyor. He recommended  that L&G pay for the repairs in line with what
had been proposed by Mr Gs surveyor.
L&G objected to this  it reverted to its surveyor who said it was very doubtful that the
damage was related  to the original  escape of water. They  pointed  out that this wasnt the 
main area that was originally damaged. They surmised  that the damage to the floor 
joists was likely to be historic.                                                                                                                                                   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The essence  of this complaint is not that the repairs carried out by Mr Gs contractors  were  
sub standard. Indeed L&G was willing to pay for the repairs  to the cracks.  Rather  that the 
repairs failed due to an underlying problem  with the joists not being dried out properly. 
No one knows definitively whether the damage to the floor joists  was related to the original 
escape of water, but I can consider what is most likely to have happened. I quoted above 
Ref: DRN45215242what Mr Gs surveyor  thought. They also pointed out that no mechanical drying was carried 
out in the living room  area or upstairs  at all. And that the upstairs carpets werent  removed 
despite being saturated. In its report to L&G its surveyor said The reasons for the 
occurrence of the cracking were not immediately obvious. and went on to point out Mr Gs 
builders opinion (that the joists hadnt been  fully dried)  
They believed the water staining  seen  on the joists was because  of movement of the 
bathroom floor where the grouting  had failed. They subsequently had a theory that the floor 
joists were likely to be twisted  due to historic damage and pointed out that the ceiling  hadnt  
come down in that location, but the amount of water needed to cause twisting of the joists  
would have been likely to bring  the ceiling down. 
But further in their report L&Gs surveyor said that We would question whether [the drying  
company] should  have  considered this during  the drying process  and provide some  targeted  
drying to the ceiling void or simply taken the ceiling down to expose the joists  and 
floorboards to the first floor. It pointed out that using  a testing  device to check  for damp 
would not have registered any moisture in the joists, as the prongs  wouldnt  have  penetrated 
beyond the ceiling itself. This appears to me to be a likely explanation why the area was still 
damp although certified as dry.
I note that L&G didnt consider at the time of the original escape  of water that drying was 
needed to the living room  area or above it. But it does appear  from the records  that the 
escape was very extensive, and it was considered necessary to replace the living room 
ceiling.
L&G did say that as the work was carried out by Mr Gs own contractors  they shouldve  
noticed that the floor joists were damp/twisted.  I would think the twisting took place after the 
repairs as the joists dried out. I can only surmise why it wasnt  noticed when the ceiling was 
taken down, although it may be that it wasnt obvious from underneath.
With L&Gs surveyors vague  theory as to why the cracking took place, together  with the 
likely explanation that proper drying  wasnt carried out to the affected area,  I find Mr Gs 
surveyor to be more  persuasive in his explanation for the cracking to the ceiling. So I think 
that L&G is responsible for carrying out the repairs to the floor joists as set out by that 
surveyor. 
To be clear that is that the floor joists  need renewal, this will involve subsequent renewal of 
plasterboard ceilings  at ground  floor level, floor boards at first floor level,  together with 
associated removal and reinstatement of partitions, fixtures and fittings etc L&G should 
either arrange to carry out the repairs or negotiate  a reasonable  cash  settlement with Mr G.
It should also pay the cost of Mr Gs survey  report.
compensation
Our investigator proposed compensation of £300  for the inconvenience caused to Mr G. He 
has pointed out that he has been  unable to use his upstairs bathroom since  his survey  was 
carried out in August  2018. Im not sure why the flooring wasnt  put back after that 
inspection, so I cant hold L&G wholly  responsible  for that. I think  the figure of £300 is 
reasonable.
Ref: DRN45215243my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Legal  & General Insurance Limited to:
arrange to carry out or pay a cash settlement for the repairs  to Mr Gs property as set 
in his surveyors report.
pay to Mr G the cost of his surveyors report.
pay £300 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019. 
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4521524