K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) forced him take out a life 
insurance policy before it would agree  to give him a new fixed rate on his mortgage. Mr A is 
also unhappy that Halifax didnt respond  to a number of letters  he sent to it.
Mr A wants  all the premiums for the life insurance policy to be refunded to him by Halifax  
and compensation  for the upset it has caused  him.
background
In 2012 Mr A wanted to arrange  a new fixed rate product  for his existing mortgage. He 
approached Halifax  to see what rates were available. Mr A says he was told hed need to 
take out a life and critical illness decreasing term assurance policy before hed be allowed  a 
new fixed rate deal.
Mr A says he agreed to take out the policy so he could get the mortgage  interest  rate 
product. But in 2013 he was told that Halifax had acted illegally  and he complained.  Mr A 
wrote to Halifax in December 2013, February  2014  and July 2014 but Halifax didnt  respond.
In 2017 Mr A brought his complaint to us. Hes unhappy that Halifax made the sale of an 
insurance product  that he says he didnt want or need a condition of his mortgage product. 
As far as Im aware Mr A still has the insurance  policy running and hed like all his premiums 
refunded by Halifax. Mr A also complains  about Halifax  not acknowledging  his letters  raising 
concerns about  the way the policy was sold. Halifax didnt respond to Mr As complaint  until 
he brought the matter to us.
Halifax didnt uphold  Mr As complaint. It said Mr A had taken out two new fixed rate 
products before 2012 and neither time was he told he had to take out insurance products  to 
get access to fixed  rate deals. Halifax also said Mr A had re-mortgaged elsewhere in 2014, 
and taken advice  from a broker, so it couldnt understand why Mr A hadnt  cancelled the 
insurance if he didnt  want it at this point. Halifax  said it hadnt received any of Mr As 
complaint letters and had no record of his complaint  until we contacted it.
Our investigator looked into the matter. She wasnt persuaded  that there was evidence  that 
supported the insurance policy was made a condition of the mortgage borrowing. She 
thought Halifax  had said Mr A must have buildings insurance but that didnt  need  to be with 
Halifax. She didnt find evidence that supported Mr As complaint that he was forced to take 
out the life insurance policy.
Mr A disagreed. He was concerned that our investigator worked closely  with Halifax  and was 
known to them. Mr A asked that an ombudsman look at his case again and reach a final 
decision on the matter.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 29 November 2018 setting out my thoughts about Mr As 
complaint. My provisional decision said:
Ref: DRN49828252sale of the insurance  policy
Mr A complains about the actions taken by Halifax six years  ago. Ive looked at the evidence  
from the time of the sale of the fixed rate and insurance policy  to see if theres 
documentation from the time that supports Mr As recollection of events.
Mr A says he was pressured to take out a life insurance policy  with Scottish Widows, 
another company in the same group as Halifax. He says if he hadnt taken out the policy  he 
was told he couldnt  have a new fixed rate product. Mr A wasnt given mortgage advice in 
2012, or at least thats what the records from the time say. And he wasnt asking to borrow  
any more money, or move borrowing from another lender to Halifax. He simply wanted to get 
a better  deal on his mortgage interest repayments.
Ive looked at the Mortgage Illustration prepared on 24 April 2012 by Halifax.  The illustration 
records that Mr A wanted a new fixed rate deal on his existing mortgage. Halifax  has pointed  
out that this wasnt  the first time that Mr A had sorted out a new fixed  rate product on his 
mortgage. In fact it was the third time hed taken out a new rate - but this is the first time Mr 
A is saying  he was forced to take out insurance  to get access to a new fixed rate. Halifax  has 
said that Mr A would not have been made to take out a life insurance policy as a condition of 
taking out a new fixed rate.
Where theres a dispute about what has happened, I need  to decide what I think is most  
likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities. Im aware what  Mr A says he 
remembers about events  in 2012,  but Im also mindful that this case  turns  on recollections 
involving a sale that happened six years ago. 
Mr A has said he went into the branch with his son that day. It may be that by taking a young 
family member, this triggered a discussion about life insurance and critical illness cover and 
what arrangements Mr A had in place to pay the mortgage if anything happening  to him. Ive 
asked Halifax for more details about the level of cover provided and what commission  would 
have been paid to the mortgage advisor. 
The Scottish Widows policy sold by Halifax was a life insurance  policy  on a decreasing term 
basis. This means that the level of cover  provided  under  the policy would reduce in line with 
the balance outstanding under the mortgage  and it was set up to finish when Mr A made his 
last mortgage  repayment. There was also critical illness cover under the policy.  Halifax has 
said no commission was paid to the mortgage advisor as a direct result of this sale. It 
doesnt seem, from the evidence available to me, that the policy was clearly  unsuitable  for 
Mr As needs at the time.
Mr A recollects that he was forced to take out the policy - but I havent  found any written  
evidence from the time that supports that. In fact, the records  available  from the time, such 
as the mortgage illustration, say that the only insurance Mr A must have is buildings  
insurance but that doesnt need to be with Halifax. Im also mindful that Mr A had taken out 
two other  fixed rate deals without Halifax asking that he arrange life insurance before  he 
could have access to these products. So, overall I think Mr A might have queried  why he 
now had to take out life insurance in 2012,  if this was something he had no need  for and 
hadnt been asked to take out in the past.
Mr A says that a third party made  him aware that he shouldnt have been  made  to take out 
this insurance in 2013. But, as far as Im aware this policy is still in force and Mr A is paying 
the premiums each month.  Im unsure why Mr A hasnt  cancelled this policy,  or stopped 
Ref: DRN49828253paying his premiums, if he considers he doesnt  need or want the policy.  Hes said to us that 
Halifax continues taking  the premiums. If Mr A no longer wants to pay the premiums,  he can 
cancel his direct debit instruction through his bank, or contact Scottish Widows to cancel  his 
policy. Mr A will need  to be sure that he no longer wants to benefit  from his insurance cover 
before he cancels his policy.
Overall I havent found any further evidence that supports Mr As recollection that he was 
made to take out this policy in 2012 before he would be allowed to have a new fixed  rate. 
And, I dont  think it is Halifaxs responsibility to cancel Mr As policy  if he doesnt want the 
cover provided under  it. I know this will be disappointing for Mr A, but I dont uphold this part 
of his complaint.  
Mr As letters sent to Halifax
Mr A has shown  us copies of letters he sent to Halifax  in December 2013, February 2014 
and July 2014. All three letters were sent to Halifax Mortgage Department at the same PO 
Box address  in Leeds. 
Halifax has confirmed that Mr A had correctly  addressed the letters to one of its main  post 
handling sites.  Its said it is very unusual that letters sent by customers would not be 
responded to and it cannot explain why this seems  to have happened on three  separate 
occasions in Mr As case. Halifax  says it has no record of Mr As letters  making a complaint,  
until he came to us and we escalated the matter for him. Halifax  has said that its postal 
service, in this case, let Mr A down.
I think it is poor customer service that Halifax didnt  respond to Mr As letters.  I have thought 
about Halifaxs argument that Mr A could have contacted it by phone  or in a local branch 
when his letters remained  unanswered. But overall, I think  Halifaxs customer  service fell 
short in Mr As case. Mr A went to the trouble of writing to Halifax  three  times and even then 
his concerns went unanswered until he brought the matter  to us. My provisional view is that 
Halifax should pay Mr A £100  for the shortcomings  in its customer service  and the 
inconvenience that this caused  Mr A. 
Ref: DRN49828254responses to my provisional  decision
Halifax replied to say it agreed  with my provisional decision and that it will pay Mr A £100 for 
the upset it caused by not responding to his letters  in 2013 and 2014. It asked that in the 
future, if Mr A doesnt receive  a response  to a letter, that he either  contact a local branch or 
call a direct  number that our investigator will share with Mr A.
Mr A replied  to say he is disappointed  with my provisional findings and hes concerned that I 
havent read all of his correspondence thoroughly.
Mr A has pointed  out that he first brought the matter to our attention  in 2015, but at this point 
he didnt hear back  from Halifax. Mr A also says the insurer wouldnt let him cancel his policy 
and it told him to contact  Halifax  if he wanted to cancel his policy. However, when he 
contacted Halifax  in branch, he was told he should contact the insurer  directly. Mr As said 
he feels exhausted by this matter and the fact it has gone on for so many years.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive thought carefully about the further 
comments Mr A has made and Id like to reassure  him that I have read and taken  into 
account all of his correspondence.
I appreciate how strongly Mr A feels about  his complaint and that he is disappointed that I 
havent awarded further compensation. However, I havent been able to find evidence  to 
support his recollection that the policy was forced upon him or made a condition  for him 
getting access to a new interest  rate product on his Halifax mortgage.
I consider that Halifax should have responded to Mr As concerns sooner and I have made  
an award of £100  to reflect the trouble that Halifaxs poor customer service caused  to Mr A. 
Mr A has also said that hes been given mixed  messages by his insurer  about  how he should 
now cancel his insurance policy. If Mr A is unhappy about this issue it would need to be 
raised as a complaint against the insurer, rather than Halifax.  
I dont think Halifax can be held responsible for Mr A still having  a life policy in force that he 
doesnt want for the reasons given  above. So I wont be asking Halifax to do anything further 
in this regard.
Mr A should  contact his insurer and let it know if he no longer wishes to be covered by the 
policy. It is the insurer that should terminate  the policy- not Halifax.  I also understand the 
policy premiums are paid by monthly direct debits called for by the insurer. If Mr A cancels 
his direct debit instruction  for this policy, it would also prevent any further  premiums  being 
paid if he doesnt  want the cover  any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc. To settle 
the matter, I direct Bank  of Scotland plc to pay Mr A compensation of £100  for the 
shortcomings in its customer service.
Ref: DRN49828255Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4982825