K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with what  U K Insurance Limited  did after he made a travel  insurance claim 
following an injury to Mrs C. 
background
Mr C has travel insurance through a packaged  bank  account which also covers  Mrs C. In 
August last year Mrs C had an accident while on holiday and injured her back. Mr C told UKI 
about this on 15 August.  Following further  investigation on 20 August the medical centre  
treating her recommended a surgical procedure. Mr C contacted UKI and said he needed a 
quick response as the surgery  was scheduled  for the following  day. UKI told Mr C in a call 
and email at around  2.00 am that day the treatment  wouldnt  be covered as it thought  the 
surgery should be carried out in a different facility which  it felt had more expertise. 
Mrs C was transferred to that facility and after a few days bed rest was discharged  to 
recuperate at her holiday  accommodation without the need for surgery. She and Mr C 
returned to the UK on 1 September after she was assessed as being able to fly home with 
wheelchair assistance; this was five days later than their originally scheduled  return date. 
Mr C said he told UKI where his wife was being  treated but it didnt express any unhappiness  
with her care there until surgery was recommended.  He said if it had suggested  the 
alternative facility earlier  his wife would have  been able to act on the recommendation for 
bed rest at an earlier point  and they would have been able to return  to the UK as scheduled. 
As that didnt take place Mrs C had been caused  unnecessary distress and hed suffered a 
loss of earnings as a result of not being  able to carry out work.  
Mr C also said he wasnt given any advice about  extending his stay or arranging alternative  
accommodation once  it became clear  they wouldnt be able to return home as scheduled. 
And although UKI said wheelchair assistance  would be provided for the return  flight  this 
wasnt available and Mrs Cs seat didnt fully recline. He was also unhappy at being told their 
children would need to sit separately  from them on the return flight. 
UKI accepted it could  have been more  proactive  in ensuring Mrs C was receiving adequate 
care. And that it should have provided  more  support  in arranging  a hotel closer to the clinic 
where Mrs C was being treated. However, it said it had requested wheelchair assistance for 
her and suggested Mr C raise this with the airline involved if it hadnt been  provided. 
Although her seat didnt fully recline  this wasnt something that was available on short  haul 
flights. And the policy only covered  the expenses of one person to remain with a patient  if 
medically necessary.  But in recognition  of the problems hed encountered  UKI offered to pay 
£400. 
Our investigator thought that was fair but Mr C didnt agree. He said if UKI had identified 
earlier that the initial medical  facility  wasnt suitable  Mrs C could have got treatment  at the 
alternative facility sooner.  And shed then have been  able to benefit from bed rest earlier. He 
said they werent offered accommodation closer  to that facility.  He felt that without those 
failings Mrs C would have  made a speedier  recovery and he would  have been  able to return  
home in order to fulfil his work commitments. So I need to reach  a final decision. 
Ref: DRN47512522my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to learn  of the injury Mrs C suffered  while on holiday and the 
understandable distress  and upset both she and Mr C were caused by this. And UKI has 
acknowledged it didnt  handle this claim as it should.  So it seems to me the key issue is 
whether a more  proactive approach by UKI would have meant theyd  have been  able to 
return home earlier (and potentially at the same time as they were originally scheduled to do 
so). 
Mr C says UKI should have told them earlier the facility Mrs C was being treated at wouldnt 
be suitable if she required surgery. However,  it doesnt appear UKI had any concerns about 
the initial care being  provided by that facility. The issue was whether it was the right place  to 
carry out the surgery on Mrs Cs spine. And the recommendation for that procedure  wasnt 
made until after an MRI scan on 20 August. Following  that UKI sought  advice from its 
medical team and the decision that surgery should  be carried  out at an alternative facility  
was based on advice from that team. 
However, UKI does  appear to have been  aware that surgery was a possibility from at least 
17 August as Mr C emailed them with possible outcomes  then. So I think  UKI could  have 
proactively referred  matters to its medical team  at that point to see if the facility  treating Mrs 
C would  be suitable  for this. I dont think that would  have led to her moving to the alternative 
facility sooner because  the investigation  of her injury was ongoing. But I appreciate it might 
have made  the process less stressful as Mr and Mrs C would have been  aware  earlier that a 
move might be necessary.  
UKI has also accepted  it didnt provide  appropriate  support in arranging an alternative hotel 
closer to the clinic that Mrs C was transferred to. I appreciate that will have caused 
Mr and Mrs C unnecessary  distress at was already a difficult time. Ive taken that into 
account when  thinking about  the right level of compensation.  But while I know Mr and Mrs C 
were also distressed at the lack of wheelchair assistance when they arrived at the airport for 
their return  flight  this had been requested by UKI. So I dont  think  its responsible for the fact 
it wasnt provided. I can also see that prior to their return home UKI did explain that seats  in 
business class  didnt fully recline.  
Mr and Mrs C were also concerned their children couldnt return  with them in business class.  
But the policy does  only cover one person,  who is resident in your home  area, to travel  to, 
remain with or escort  you back  to your home area on the advice of our medical  advisor. I 
understand UKI would  have booked seats in economy on the same flight for the children  but 
in the event this wasnt  necessary as they returned  to the UK on their originally scheduled 
flight. That suggests they were able to fly independently. 
Ref: DRN47512523putting things  right
I know Mr C thinks  if UKI had acted more quickly then he and Mrs C would have been able 
to return to the UK as scheduled.  But I dont  think thats likely. I dont think  UKI did anything  
wrong in allowing the initial facility treating her to investigate the problem or in subsequently 
deciding surgery should take place elsewhere. And the time taken for Mr and Mrs C to then 
return home wasnt because of any delay by UKI but because  the subsequent medical 
advice was that surgery wasnt required but bed rest was prior to Mrs C being  fit to fly. 
But I do agree  that their journey to the alternative  facility might have been less stressful  if 
theyd known earlier that might be required. And UKI should have provided more  support in 
arranging an alternative hotel closer to the treating clinic and in providing assistance to help 
them extend  their stay once it became clear they wouldnt be able to return  to the UK as 
scheduled. I know those  problems will have been particularly upsetting for Mr and Mrs C as 
this was already  a difficult time.  But I think the £400 that UKI has already offered  does 
enough to recognise distress  they were caused by what it got wrong.  And the additional 
costs theyve claimed in relation to, for example, hotel accommodation have been dealt with 
separately by UKI. 
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  because  I think U K Insurance Limited has already 
done enough to put things right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4751252