K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)
policy.
background
Mr T took out PPI at the same time as he applied for a personal loan in 1998. The loan 
included an amount to pay for the PPI which gave him accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed so the case was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
There is conflicting evidence about  where and how the policy was sold.  Nationwides records 
show it was by phone but Mr T has explained why that cant be the case. He thinks he 
applied by completing a leaflet and handing it in at a branch. But I dont need to make  a 
finding on this point as from the other  evidence I have seen it does not affect  the outcome of 
the case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make clear the PPI was optional  and Mr T had to agree to take it.
Mr T says he never wanted  or needed PPI. But on the loan agreement  Mr T signed 
Nationwide made  clear that the PPI was optional. It was labelled  Optional Credit Insurance  
and the costs were  set out separately. Had Mr T not wanted the cover I would not have 
expected him to go ahead  and sign this form. 
On balance, I think Nationwide  made  Mr T aware  that the PPI was optional and he chose
to take it out.
Nationwide didnt recommend the policy so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for Mr T.
It had, however, to give him clear information  about the PPI so he could decide whether the
cover was right for him. Mr T says nothing was explained to him at the time.  And I agree its 
possible he didnt have  all the information  he needed when he agreed to buy the PPI. But I 
dont think he wouldve made a different decision with better  information. I say this because:
Mr T was eligible  for the PPI  that is, he qualified to be covered by the insurance.
There were  some  terms of the policy that would make it less useful for some  people 
(such as those with pre-existing medical  conditions or on certain kinds of 
employment contract). But Mr T wouldnt have been affected by such  terms so I dont 
think better information on them would have changed his decision.
Mr T wasnt entitled to any sick pay and the PPI would have paid out for up to the life 
of the loan for accident and sickness claims. It also gave him up to 12 months 
redundancy cover. Mr T says his partner and family  would have  helped  but thats  not 
suitable alternative protection  its not guaranteed and peoples  circumstances can 
Ref: DRN46534312change. Overall, I think he would have found the PPI useful if he was sick or lost his 
job.
The costs were  set out clearly  on the loan agreement.  It set out the price  of the PPI, 
the interest that would  be charged, the total cost and the monthly repayment.
And the policy gave  a pro-rata refund if the loan was repaid early (as it was), so even 
if the early refund  terms were not brought to Mr Ts attention,  it seems unlikely that 
this would have  affected his decision to take out the policy. 
Overall, I dont  think Mr T has lost out because  of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4653431