K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that she was mis-sold decreasing critical illness  cover  (CIC)  (with free life 
cover) by Santander UK Plc, formerly known as Abbey.   
In short,  she says:
She was told the policy was a condition of her mortgage. 
She had adequate cover in place from her employer  and therefore  the policy was 
unnecessary.
background
In 2005, Ms W was advised  to take out the policy, with a £29,192  sum assured,  decreasing  
over a term of 21 years.   
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Despite what Ms W says  and in the absence of any contemporaneous notes   she 
cant safely say that Ms W was told that life cover/CIC was a condition of the 
mortgage.
Shes seen no evidence to suggest that life cover/CIC  was a condition  of the 
mortgage. 
Advice to protect large borrowing, such as a mortgage, is generally considered good 
advice. 
If Ms W was to die or be diagnosed with a specific critical illness  during the term of 
the policy, the mortgage would be paid off, this would ensure that the family home is 
retained for her family.
The policy would also mean Ms W doesnt need to depend  on sick pay which would 
only apply for a limited  time.
In this case the policy was sold to cover  the additional borrowing, which  was the 
mortgage, which wasnt unsuitable or unnecessary.
Employee benefits arent guaranteed to be in place for the duration of the mortgage, 
but only for the duration of the employment, and even  then,  an employer can choose  
to withdraw its employee benefits.  And theres no guarantee that the customer would 
able obtain the same level of cover or for the same price elsewhere, once the cover 
had been lost. 
Unlike the employee benefits the policy will continue to provide cover for the duration 
of the mortgage  so long as the premiums are paid.    
Ms W disagreed with the investigators conclusion. In summary, she said:
She feels like the investigator  is only looking at the worst-case  scenarios in respect of 
each of the points she raised. 
Shes still employed with the same employer in the same  job and in receipt  of all the 
benefits in accordance with the terms of her contract. 
The £10,000 deposit she put down  equated  to more than 25% of the total price of her 
borrowing, and in such a desirable  district the loan was totally secure.
She wasnt concerned  about the repayment being a significant increase in her 
borrowing  rented accommodation  wouldve been more  expensive. 
Ref: DRN46843002The property was sold two years ago for over three times the amount she borrowed. 
She wasnt aware that she could cancel the insurance at any time. In the letter dated 
13 February 2017 Santander  admits  that it omitted the paragraph in the Important 
Policy Information offering her the option to cancel  the policy.
She gave the property  purchase  her full consideration and looked at the worst  
happening before  going ahead. The whole point of her complaint is that she had this 
insurance  which  she didnt  ask for  packaged into her mortgage.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the business redress  
methodology is fair and reasonable.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Ms Ws strength of feeling  about this matter.  
She has provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  she wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider  the evidence presented by Ms W and the business, and reach what I think  
is an independent,  fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. 
Despite what Ms W says,  on balance Im not persuaded that she was told or led to believe 
that the policy was a condition of her mortgage. Ive seen nothing  to suggest that this was 
the case, and Santander  has made  clear  that life cover/CIC has never  been  a condition of 
obtaining a mortgage.
Its possible that Ms W was advised to take out the policy and advised in strong terms 
because she didnt  have  adequate cover  in place at the time for this additional borrowing, 
but it doesnt mean she was told the policy was a condition  of the mortgage. 
And aside  from employee benefits, which Ill consider below, Ive seen no evidence  to 
suggest she had any other existing cover  at the time. 
I note Santander  says that its mortgage interviews  are structured in such  a way that its 
advisers will start by assessing  whether an applicant is eligible for the mortgage,  and its only 
Ref: DRN46843003then, if its prepared to lend money, it goes on to consider the issue  of protection. So, the 
cover has no bearing on whether it would lend money. 
I also note Page 7, section 9 of the mortgage  conversion offer letter entitled insurance  
dated November  2005 and signed  by Ms W in December 2005  makes  clear that she 
wasnt obliged to take out any insurance  through Santander, and the only insurance that was 
required was property  insurance. But if Ms W didnt read through this documentation, I cant  
blame the business for this. 
I appreciate Ms W feels like the investigator  is only looking at the worst-case scenario. But I 
think thats the point of insurance, so that if the worst  happens, theres cover in place for 
when its most needed. 
 
I understand what Ms W is saying, but an insurance  policy is only worth  something when a 
claim is made. And despite what she says about  the value of the property and its resale,  
insurance is there to protect her interest if all the things she relies  upon are turned on their 
head.  
I agree  with the investigator that employee  benefits  are not guaranteed to be in place for the 
duration of the mortgage, only for the duration of the employment,  and even then, an 
employer can choose to withdraw its employee benefits. Unlike employee benefits the policy 
will continue to provide  cover for the duration of the mortgage so long as the premiums are 
paid.   
Im mindful of what she says about  being pressured into taking  the policy,  but Ive seen no 
evidence that this was the case.
I appreciate Ms W will be thoroughly unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion  as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what she wants  to hear. Whilst I appreciate  her 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business  to do anything.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her what 
she wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4684300