K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland  plc didnt credit his account correctly when he made  a 
cash deposit. Bank of Scotland  trades in this case under its Halifax  brand.  
background
In October  2017 Mr G made a cash deposit over the counter at his branch of Halifax.  The 
cashier counted  the money and gave him a receipt for £910. He later noticed however that a 
correction had been applied to his account   so the deposit was recorded as only £810.
When Mr G queried  this, the bank explained that the cashier  had checked the money he had 
paid in shortly after hed left the branch. He had, the bank said,  been in a hurry and the 
cashier hadnt been able to do that while  he was there. Shed identified that the deposit was 
in fact only £810, and that had been  checked  and verified by other  staff members. Theyd 
tried to contact Mr G so the issue could  be resolved  immediately, but were unable  to do so.
Mr G didnt accept that. He said he had counted the money,  both before he went to the 
branch and at the branch.  He suggested  that a staff member must have taken £100 from the 
money he paid in.
Mr G referred  the case to this service  and one of our investigators considered it. He thought 
there were two possibilities, namely:
someone  in the branch had taken £100 of Mr Gs money; or
the money  had been wrongly  counted  initially and a correction had been made. 
The investigator thought it more likely that an error  had been  made  and that Mr G had in fact 
paid in only £810. He recommended that Halifax pay Mr G £100  as compensation for the 
trouble caused  by its error. Halifax agreed  to that, but Mr G felt his account should be 
credited with the missing £100  and that he should receive significantly more in 
compensation. He asked  that an ombudsman review the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusion as the investigator did. 
The issue  of fact I have  to consider here is a fairly  simple one. Did Mr G pay in £910  or 
£810? 
Mr G says that the money was payment for work hed done. He hasnt been  able to provide 
an invoice for that work, however. I suspect he was paid in cash and no formal invoice was 
produced, so I dont  criticise him for that; it simply means theres  no evidence of that nature 
to assist me. 
He says too that he counted the money before he went to the bank. Thats  not consistent 
with the banks evidence, however, which is that he was in a rush and didnt know  how much 
money he had. 
Ref: DRN48152072The bank said that there was no discrepancy  in the total money held at the branch. But that 
would have been the case if £100  of Mr Gs money had been removed, so I dont think  thats 
particularly significant  in this case.   
But the real issue  here is  as the investigator  identified  whether some  of the money went 
missing or the bank  made  an error when it first counted it. I agree with the investigator that 
its more likely that the bank made an error.  Had the cashier taken the money, I think  its 
unlikely that other bank  staff would have been  called to check, or that the bank would have 
attempted to call Mr G. And the consequences  for anyone involved at the bank would have 
been extremely serious.
Ive no reason to think that Mr G doesnt  genuinely believe that he paid in £910. The 
evidence suggests  however that he didnt, and that the bank made a mistake  in counting the 
money. Once it discovered  the error, I think it took reasonable steps to contact him, even 
though they were unsuccessful. But I agree with the investigator that some modest 
compensation is appropriate, and so I will make  a formal award reflecting that. 
my final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Gs complaint in full, Bank  of Scotland plc should  pay 
him £100 (assuming  it hasnt already  done  so). Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4815207