K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) shouldnt  
have authorised repairs to their car under their motor insurance policy,  given the extent of 
the damage following an accident and should have declared it a total loss instead. And later 
they said it took LV too long to complete the repairs, and some damage to the front of their 
car and a seatbelt hadnt been repaired.
background
Mrs S is the policy holder  and Mr S a named  driver on their policy with LV. Mr S said while 
he was driving on 13 February 2018  their car was badly damaged when hit from behind  and 
pushed onto the opposite side of the road into a hedge. Mrs S said when  they claimed to LV 
many parties became involved and it wasnt clear who was responsible  for their claim.
Mr and Mrs Ss car went to the repairer on 16 February 2018 and it provided LV with a report  
saying the car could  be repaired  and setting out the work required. LV authorised  the repairs 
on 20 February 2018, but said the work was delayed until 29 March 2018  because Mr and 
Mrs S challenged the repair of their car. Mrs S said the repairs were  initially  estimated at 
around £10,000, but later reduced  to around £9,000 and she was concerned that some 
repairs wouldnt be done and might not be safe.  But she said they hadnt delayed  the work.
Mrs S said their preferred  option was for their car to be written off by LV so that their 
Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) policy  would  be activated. She said they would also be 
happy to have their car back in the same condition as it was before the accident, but the 
amount of time that had been taken meant they lacked confidence  in the repairs. 
LV told Mr and Mrs S it was acting directly as the insurer. But Mrs S said it didnt keep them 
informed about  their claim and they didnt know when they would get their car back. 
LV said Mr and Mrs Ss car wasnt beyond economical repair  and could be safely  fixed well 
within its valuation, and said the repairs would be fully tested. LVs policy  states it will use its 
nominated supplier to provide a replacement  car. And its records  show  that the repairer 
arranged a replacement  car via a hire firm the repairer used  to manage the claim. 
Mr and Mrs Ss car was returned to them on 6 July 2018 following a MOT and passing  an 
inspection from an independent  engineer instructed  by LV. However, Mrs S said the seatbelt 
couldnt be adjusted  and there  were  chips on the front of the car from the accident.  She said 
the car went  back to the repairer in August 2018  and the repairer said that LV wouldnt 
authorise repairs to the front of the car as it hadnt  been damaged  in the accident.  
The investigator recommended  that the complaint be upheld  in part. He said LV handled the 
claim reasonably, but there were unnecessary delays with the repairs and LV should pay Mr 
and Mrs S £175 compensation for their inconvenience. He also said LV should cover the 
costs of inspecting  and repairing the damaged seatbelt if this hasnt been carried  out. 
The investigator said the policy allows LV to resolve  the claim as it wishes,  and the valuation 
and engineers report showed  it was reasonable to repair rather than write off Mr and 
Mrs Ss car. He said LV included everything the engineer  said was needed to be repaired. 
He said the engineers report didnt  mention damage to the front of the car and theres  no 
visible damage in the pictures and so it didnt  appear that this had been overlooked.
Ref: DRN49313202Mr and Mrs S disagreed about the compensation. Mrs S said the repairs  were  delayed 
through no fault of their own and provided emails from the hire firm about the repairs.  Mrs S 
said the car had to go back  for the seatbelt to be repaired and for a further inspection of the 
damage repairs. She said the MOT  report said there was damage  to the front of the car and 
said this should  be repaired. Mrs S requested  an ombudsman review  the complaint. 
LV said a motor  engineer had found  no fault with the seatbelt and said the paintwork and 
other damage claimed by Mr and Mrs S wasnt related to the accident. Mr and Mrs S said 
they'd taken their car to a garage to look at the seatbelt. LV asked them for a report  about 
this but said it hasnt received anything. LV reconsidered the delays to the repairs and 
agreed these had taken too long to conclude and paid Mr and Mrs S £300  compensation. 
Mr and Mrs S remained dissatisfied with how their claim had been handled and decisions on 
the repairs. The investigator said without expert evidence  he couldnt ask LV to cover the 
cost of any further repairs. He said if further evidence  shows  the damage is related to the 
accident then LV should cover these  costs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S initially complained that LV should have decided that their car wasnt 
economical to repair  and said that the repairs were delayed. They have subsequently 
complained that the repairs didnt include damage to the front of their car and seatbelt and 
they were inconvenienced  by having  to return their car to the repairer for further work. 
Though LV dealt with these as separate complaints I have considered all of these issues 
together. LV is aware that we have  considered  this as one complaint.
Mr and Mrs S wanted their car to be written off by LV so they could use their GAP  insurance 
to make up the shortfall on what it cost them. LV said the car could  be restored to a pre-
accident standard for around half of what it was worth.  An insurer can decide at what value it 
thinks a car is uneconomical to repair and our services role is only to decide if its made that 
decision reasonably.  LV and Mr and Mrs S disagree  about what  the car was worth.  I have 
seen expert  motor trade valuations, and these show it was reasonable for LV to go ahead  
with the repairs  to Mr and Mrs Ss car. I think that even  at Mrs Ss valuation it was 
reasonable for LV to go ahead with repairs rather write their car off. 
Mr and Mrs S were  concerned their car couldnt be repaired to a safe standard. There was 
significant damage, but an expert in accident  damage said it could be repaired.  The repairs 
have been carried  out and I think it was reasonable for LV to decide  that Mr and Mrs Ss car 
could be safely repaired. Im pleased Mr and Mrs S were provided with a replacement car 
during the times when their car was at the repairers.   
LV said it authorised the repairs quite quickly, but they were put on hold for over a month 
when Mr and Mrs S questioned the cost of the repairs and whether the car should be written 
off. Mrs S said they werent responsible for a delay  and provided emails  from the hire firm 
about the progress of the repairs. Ive seen that Mr and Mrs S questioned the reduction of 
the estimate for repairs  at the end of February 2018  and said that LV should write  their car 
off. Time was taken by both parties  in getting valuations  and checking  the proposed work 
and this caused delay. The emails from the hire firm tend to confirm  the delay occurred 
whilst the potential resolution of the claim was discussed by the parties.
Ref: DRN49313203LV instructed the repairs  to start again  at the end of March 2018,  but progress was very slow 
over the next three months. The repairer  said there were delays in obtaining parts and 
specialist brackets that were outside its control.  From what  Ive seen of the problems the 
repairer faced I think that much of the delay was unavoidable. But the repairs still took a long 
time and have been protracted by further  inspections of the car. 
LV apologised to Mr and Mrs S for the delays and paid them  £300  compensation. This sum 
includes the previous compensation of £175  recommended by the investigator for the 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs S have suffered. Overall the repairs  took several months,  but I 
dont think this was all caused by LV, and as I have said, some delay was unavoidable. I 
think £300 compensation is about right for the delays and poor communications  caused by 
LV and Im not going to require it to pay any more. Im pleased Mr and Mrs S had use of a 
replacement car during  the repairs as per their policy.
Before Mr and Mrs Ss car was returned, LV arranged a MOT and a motor  engineer  to report  
on its condition. However, when they got their car back Mr and Mrs S were  still concerned  
about some  of the repairs. Mrs S said a seatbelt wasnt  working  properly and there were 
some marks  on the front of the car. I think LV did the right thing to take their car back  to the 
repairer to be checked.
LV obtained  a further report from a motor  engineer  in October  2018  which  found no fault with 
the seatbelt and said the paintwork  and other  damage claimed by Mr and Mrs S wasnt  
related to the accident. LV said only the rear of the car was affected by the accident and the 
marks were stone chips from normal  road use. Mr and Mrs S said they'd taken  their car to a 
garage to look at the seatbelt which wasnt working properly. LV asked them  for a report 
about this but said it hasnt  received anything. I have only seen expert  reports  provided by 
LV and these  support its position  that it has repaired the accident-related damage.
Mrs S said the MOT  report advised  that damage  was done to the front of the car and was 
advised to be repaired. Ive looked at the MOT documents and other than monitoring for a 
loose nearside  front inner wing cover, theres no mention of damage to the front of the car.
I think LV has taken Mr and Mrs Ss concerns seriously and has obtained expert  reports  to 
ensure the car has been fully restored to its pre-accident condition. I havent seen anything  
from the expert reports or photos  that would link paint or other damage to the front of Mr and 
Mrs Ss car to the accident.  I am also aware that their car was nearly four years old and had 
travelled over 50,000 miles at the time of the accident and so there would be some marks 
and wear and tear present.  
Im not persuaded that the damage to which Mr and Mrs S refer is due to the accident and I 
dont require LV to take any action about this. Mr and Mrs S said the seatbelt wasnt working 
properly but LV said its engineer reported  that it worked fine. Mr and Mrs S havent provided  
a report from their garage about  the seatbelt  at LVs invitation. I have seen the engineers 
report that LV obtained and based  on this I think its fair and reasonable for LV to take the 
view that no further  repairs  are required.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.  
Ref: DRN49313204Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 January 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4931320