K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  he bought from 
Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds).
background
I issued my provisional decision on 17 December 2018. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I 
provisionally decided  the complaint shouldnt be upheld.
I asked both parties to respond to me by 17 January 2019. Mr S has responded, disagreeing 
with my provisional decision.  Lloyds hasnt responded.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S disagrees with my provisional decision.  He thinks what Ive said means no consumer 
who has made a claim for the benefits of a PPI policy can go on to make a complaint  about 
undisclosed commission or profit share.  I understand why he may think  this, but for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision, I disagree.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has set out rules  that a business must follow when 
looking at complaints about PPI. Those  rules  set out a two-step  approach. 
The first step was that a business should look to see whether  the policy was mis-sold and 
whether the consumer would not otherwise have bought the policy  they did. 
The second  step was that if a business  considered that the policy wasnt mis-sold,  did the 
level of undisclosed  commission (and profit share) received by the business create an unfair  
relationship between the consumer and the business. If it did, the business needed to put 
that right.
But, and importantly, the rules say that a business doesnt need  to consider the commission  
(and profit share) charged (step 2) if it upheld the consumers complaint that PPI had been 
mis-sold (step 1). 
In other  words, if a business finds a consumer wouldnt have bought  PPI at all and offers to 
put things right on that basis,  it doesnt need to go on to look at any complaint about  
commission.
So when Lloyds  looked at the sale of the policy in 2011  it concluded the PPI was mis-sold 
and Mr S would  not have  bought it. At that point it worked out compensation for the mis-sale 
to put Mr S, as far as possible, in the position  he would have been in if he had never taken 
out the PPI. This meant that compensation also put him the in position he would have been 
in if he had not paid anything for PPI, including commission to the date of Lloyds calculation. 
Ref: DRN42493932Mr S had made two successful claims under the policy that paid out more  than he had paid 
for PPI And Lloyds  had set the claims off against  the compensation due for the mis-sale. As I 
explained in my provisional decision,  I think that was a fair approach  to for it to take.  
But this meant Lloyds didnt need  to consider whether there was an unfair  relationship as it 
had already upheld Mr S complaint about  the sale of PPI in 2011. Had it thought  in 2011 
that PPI hadnt  been mis-sold,  it would  have had to consider whether there was an unfair  
relationship. And that would have been considered regardless  of whether a claim had been  
made under the policy.
Lloyds, in Mr Ss case has followed the rules  and guidance set out by the FCA. Ive thought 
about whether  there is anything about  Mr S complaint that means Lloyds should do anything 
different to answer  his complaint. But I dont think there is. I think what Lloyds has done is a 
fair way to resolve  the complaint, so I am not intending  to tell it do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ss 
complaint and Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt need  to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN42493933Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr S has complained about a payment  protection insurance (PPI)  policy he bought from Lloyds 
Bank PLC (Lloyds).
background
In March 2018  Mr S contacted Lloyds  to complain  about the level of undisclosed commission (and 
profit share) received by the business  on his PPI policy. 
Lloyds explained to Mr S that it had already  looked into the sale of his PPI in September  2011.
Lloyds enclosed a copy of its response to Mr S from 2011. In this letter Lloyds say that Mr S had two 
successful claims  for unemployment totalling  £5,387.12. And this was more than he had paid for the 
PPI, which  was £2,673.72. So Lloyds  considered that as Mr Ss claim  amounts were  greater than his 
PPI compensation  he wasnt due anything.  
Lloyds letter to Mr S in 2018  explained that it had already fully upheld  his complaint. So Lloyds  said it 
considered it did not need to do anything further in relation  to the amount of commission and profit  
share it received for the PPI policy. 
Unhappy, Mr S brought his complaint to our service. Mr S considered that the claims he had would 
have been paid out in any event  even if there was no commission  charged. So Mr S feels  he should  
still be entitled  to receive any commission he was charged unfairly.
Our adjudicator looked  at Mr Ss complaint and thought Lloyds had acted fairly. He explained  that Mr 
S complained  to Lloyds in 2011 that the policy was mis-sold. Lloyds investigated this and felt it didnt 
need to pay Mr S any compensation because the value  of his claims was more  than hed paid for PPI. 
Our adjudicator agreed that this was fair. 
Our adjudicator also thought  Lloyds  didnt need to look at how much commission and profit  share it 
had received as the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  rules  and guidance said this wasnt 
necessary if the consumer  complained that the policy  was mis-sold and the business upheld the 
complaint.
Mr S disagreed with our adjudicator. He said that he did not make a complaint about the mis-selling  of 
PPI in 2011.  Mr S says he made a complaint in 2011  around an unemployment claim that had been 
made previously on the PPI policy and had not been  fully settled. Mr S explained  that our service 
looked into his concerns around the unemployment claim. 
Mr S also reiterated his point that the claims  he had would have been paid out in any event   even if 
there was no commission charged. So Mr S remained of the opinion that he should  still be entitled to 
receive any commission that he had been charged unfairly.
As the matter  hasnt been resolved its been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive provisionally considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN42493934what happened in 2011?
I can see that Mr S did complain about the concerns  he had with the unemployment claim he had 
under his PPI policy. I can see that a complaint was looked at by this service  against the insurer of the 
PPI policy.  I have looked  at this complaint  and the correspondence on the file.
From looking  at the correspondence I can see that Mr S submitted  to this service his statement of 
case. This document is dated May 2011 and is addressed to the insurer. 
Within this document Mr S states:
I am requesting  an investigation in to whether there has been  a breach of contract  relating  to my 
claim under  the Payment  Protection Scheme  and whether I was mis-sold  Payment Protection  on my 
Lloyds TSB Visa Card
Mr S further explained that:
I was not aware that this Insurance only lasted for one year, and at the end of that one year I would 
never be able to make  a claim  under this policy  again. Had I known, I would not have taken  this 
insurance.
I therefore  believe that this insurance has been mis-sold and the whole claim mis-handled. 
This correspondence  was received by the insurer  and I can see that in response to Mr S, and on 
more than one occasion, the insurer explained to Mr S that if he had any concerns about  the sale of 
his PPI policy  then that would need  to be addressed  by Lloyds.  It explained to Mr S that as the insurer  
it would only look at his concerns about the unemployment claim.
Ive seen that Lloyds, not the insurer, wrote to Mr S setting out its response  this looks like the 
response to a complaint that PPI had been mis-sold. Given that Mr S had shortly  before written to the 
insurer saying that he thought PPI was mis-sold (with reasons) and the insurer  told him to complain to 
Lloyds, I think its most likely  thats what he did. I think Mr S raised  his concerns to Lloyds that his PPI 
policy had been mis-sold, and that was what generated Lloyds response about  Mr Ss PPI policy in 
September 2011. 
did Lloyds need to pay Mr S any compensation in 2011 having upheld  his complaint?
Lloyds accepted that the PPI policy  was mis-sold. So it needed to try to put Mr S in the financial 
position he would have been in if he hadnt taken it out (so far as is possible). 
With a credit card PPI policy like Mr Ss, this generally means refunding any premiums he was 
charged, and any historic interest or fees and charges caused by the PPI. Finally,  it needs  to 
compensate Mr S for any time he was out of pocket. To do all of this, businesses usually need to 
reconstruct the consumers account  on a month-by-month basis.
But, and importantly here, if Mr S hadnt had PPI, he wouldnt have been able to make his claims.  
So I think its fair for Lloyds to deduct the amount  he received when  he made his claims from his PPI 
compensation. And because Mr Ss claims  totalled  a lot more than his PPI compensation, Lloyds 
didnt need to pay him anything.
In summary, I think Lloyds correctly dealt with the complaint that was brought  to it by Mr S in 2011. 
does Lloyds need to anything more?
The FCA provided  guidance and rules on how businesses should approach  compensation for PPI 
when a consumer  complains about the sale of PPI. It referred to a two-step approach. 
Ref: DRN42493935The first was that a business should look to see whether a policy was mis-sold and whether  the 
consumer would not otherwise have bought the policy. The second was that if a policy  wasnt mis-
sold, did the level of undisclosed commission (and profit share) received by the business create an 
unfair relationship  between  the consumer  and the business.
But the rules say that a business doesnt need to consider the commission (and profit share) charged 
if it upheld the consumers complaint that PPI had been mis-sold. In other words, if a business finds a 
consumer wouldnt have bought PPI at all and offers to put things right on that basis, it doesnt need 
to go on to look at any complaint about commission.
So here, Im satisfied Mr S made a complaint about a mis-sale of PPI, which Lloyds investigated and 
upheld in 2011. But because Mr S had claimed  more under the policy than what he had paid for it  
he wasnt owed anything.
And because  Lloyds had investigated the sale of the policy and upheld it in 2011 (albeit with no 
compensation due to Mr S), Lloyds didnt  have  to go on (in 2018) and consider whether  the 
relationship was unfair. 
I appreciate that Mr S feels that his unemployment claims would  have paid out in any event  so he 
still feels that he should  be entitled to any unfair commission that may have been charged.  I 
understand what Mr S is saying here. But it is important to note that Lloyds had to, in the first 
instance, look at whether the policy was mis-sold.  It did so, seven years ago and concluded that the 
policy was mis-sold. Had Mr S not claimed, Lloyds would  have refunded everything Mr S had paid 
towards the policy. But as Mr S had successfully claimed  under the policy, outweighing what  he had 
paid towards  the policy, he wasnt entitled to be paid any compensation.
If Lloyds, in 2011, had concluded that the policy wasnt mis-sold  then in 2018 when Mr S 
complained about the level of undisclosed commission  and profit share  it received  Lloyds would 
have been required  to look into it.
But I dont think its fair to say Lloyds must now do so when, for the reasons Ive said above, its 
already properly  considered the sale of the policy. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am intending to not uphold Mr Ss complaint. And I am of the 
provisional opinion Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt need to do anything further.
I invite both parties to respond to my provisional decision by 17 January  2019.  I will then consider any 
responses I receive and issue  my final decision.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4249393