K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002.        
Mr and Mrs W say Newcastle Building  Society (NBS) mis-sold them the PPI.
background
NBS sold Mr and Mrs W a regular premium PPI policy with a mortgage in 2002,                   
Mr and Mrs W took the PPI policy out during a meeting  at a branch. 
The mortgage was in joint names but the PPI policy covered only Mr W. The cost of the PPI 
policy was £16.37 and the monthly benefit was £330.80. This would have been  paid for up to 
12 months per claim if Mr W couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment. 
In 2004, Mr and Mrs W took out a further advance. At this time the PPI cover  was increased. 
The cost of the PPI policy  was amended to £26.73  and the monthly benefit was £540.00. 
In 2006, Mr and Mrs W took out another further advance and the PPI was amended  again.  
The cost of the PPI policy  was amended to £33.52  and the monthly benefit was £677.00. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  and Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs W have  told they, felt the PPI application would benefit their mortgage  
applications. Ive thought about this but NBS has been able to show us paperwork for all the 
mortgage applications and this details  that Mr and Mrs W were given a choice about whether  
to take the cover or decline  it. So from the paperwork it looks like Mr and Mrs W were given 
a choice and chose to take out the cover. I cant know exactly what was said during the 
meetings and telephone  calls when  the original mortgage and subsequent further advances 
were taken out. It may be the NBS representative  told them they should  take the policy out, 
but thats not the same as telling them they had to. I also have  to take into account that the 
policy was in force for many years  until 2012  and was amended  twice.  If it was something 
they didnt want  or thought they didnt need Id expect them to have questioned it at an early 
stage. But Ive not seen any record that they did.
Taking everything into account  I think its most  likely NBS made it clear that Mr and Mrs W 
didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose  to take it out  although I can understand why 
they cant remember this after so many years.
NBS has told us it didnt  recommend  the policy to Mr and Mrs W and instead gave them 
information about it so they could decide for themselves whether to buy it. But the original 
PPI was sold during  what was likely  to have been a lengthy meeting. And I can see NBS did 
recommend a particular  mortgage. So I think Mr and Mrs W may have  believed  the PPI was 
Ref: DRN47768072recommended to them. So Ive looked  at the complaint as if the PPI was recommended. This 
means NBS had to take steps to make sure the policy was right for Mr and Mrs W. And I 
think it was.
The policy was set up to cover Mr W only. Looking  at their circumstances I can see Mrs W 
was employed in public services  and had been  for a long time. So its likely  shed  have 
enjoyed a good level of sick pay and wouldve likely received a redundancy package if she 
lost her job. Mr W had been with his employer for substantially less time. And its likely his 
employers sick pay wouldnt have been  as generous as Mrs Ws. So it seems suitable that 
the policy was set up to cover only Mr W.
Mr and Mrs W have  said they believe the policy would only pay half the mortgage  
repayments if Mr W made a claim.  But I can see the initial benefit amount of £330.80 was 
the same  as Mr and Mrs Ws monthly mortgage repayment. 
Mr W was eligible for the policy so hed be able to claim if he needed  to. 
The policy contained  some exclusions but Mr W wasnt affected by any of these. For 
example didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions  that wouldnt be covered.
I cant be sure exactly what  was information was given to Mr and Mrs W during the sale of 
the PPI and subsequent  amendments. Its possible  the information NBS gave them about 
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  
But they chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. Based on 
what Ive seen of Mr Ws circumstances it was right for him. So it wouldve been useful for  
Mr and Mrs W if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put Mr and Mrs W off taking out the cover.  
An adjudicator from this service originally  thought  the complaint should be upheld because  
the policy only covered  Mr W. But looking at Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances I dont think that 
made the policy unsuitable. When NBS responded to the original adjudicators  findings it told 
us that in 2002 Mr and Mrs W used part of the funds from the mortgage to refinance credit  
card debt. It said the notes made at the time said the debt accrued  because Mr W had been 
unemployed for a period of time a few years  earlier.  Mr and Mrs W dispute this. Mr W says 
he has never been unemployed.
I note that the application  form for the original mortgage in 2002 does show that Mr and     
Mrs W were borrowing extra  to consolidate  their credit card balances.  Ive not seen the 
underwriter notes about the reason  why the credit card debt accrued.  But even if Mr W 
hadnt been unemployed it wouldnt make a difference  to the outcome of this complaint.
Thats because I think its likely NBS presented the policy as being optional  and Mr and     
Mrs W chose  to take it out. The policy seems to have  been right for them and affordable.  
And even  if NBS had given Mr and Mrs W all the clear information it should have I still think  
theyd have taken  it out.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs W paid on their PPI  and whether NBS 
treated them  unfairly. 
NBS has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ws PPI was less than half of what  they 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how NBS has been working this out and based on 
Ref: DRN47768073what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ws commission  was less than half the 
cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about the commission   
so I dont think NBS treated them unfairly.  This means it doesnt  need to pay them  back any 
of the commission  they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against  Newcastle  
Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4776807