K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe  Limited  (Aioi) has 
unfairly held him liable for an accident  involving Mr M, a named driver on his motor 
insurance policy. Mr S said this caused  the loss of his No Claims Discount (NCD)  and his 
premium to rise and his car hasnt  been  repaired. 
background
Mr M reported an accident to Aioi he said he had with a motorcyclist  in November 2017 
whilst driving Mr Ss car. Mr M said the other party  was to blame.  The other  party also 
claimed for damage  to his motorcycle and said Mr M was to blame. 
Aioi said Mr M provided limited information when he reported the accident and it made  many  
attempts over the next four months to get more details, including calls and letters  to Mr S, in 
November 2017,  January  and March 2018. In its letters, Aioi said it understood  that Mr M 
had pulled from a side road into the main  road and that the other party  had right of way. Aioi 
told Mr S it was minded  to accept liability for the accident on his behalf.
Aioi said Mr S first made contact when he called in March 2018 to complain about the 
increased cost of renewing his policy and that it had recorded a fault claim against him 
without discussion.  Mr S said Aiois decision was wrong as the other party  was speeding.  
Aioi told Mr S there  were  no independent witnesses to the accident and the police didnt 
attend. It said if there had been any CCTV footage, by the time hed given more details at 
the end of March  2018, it would have been  deleted.  It said that based on its previous 
experience it anticipated  that it would have great difficulty in defending  any claim and so had 
accepted liability.  Aioi said it had recorded this as a fault claim, and disallowed  Mr Ss NCD.
Aioi said Mr Ss policy carried  a claims excess of £850 for when Mr M was driving. It said his 
car was assessed as a total loss and as the pre-accident value was about  equal to the 
excess, there was no claim  for his car that he could  make against  his policy.  
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said Mr Ss policy  allowed 
Aioi to settle a claim as it chose. He said it was reasonable  for Aioi to accept liability  from the 
descriptions of the accident and particularly as there was no contact from Mr S. The 
adjudicator said Aiois decision to write Mr Ss car off and value it at around the policy  
excess, was reasonable based  on the valuation guide for the car.
Mr M said he had contacted Aioi about  the accident  and he forwarded an email about the 
accident sent by Mr S in April 2018. Mr M requested an ombudsman  review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint.  I know this will disappoint him, but I hope the reasons Im about to 
give will help him to understand  why Ive reached  this conclusion.
Mr S complained that Aioi accepted full liability for the claim on his behalf. Its not my role to 
decide who was actually at fault for an accident. Instead, I must  look at whether, in reaching 
its decision to accept  liability, Aioi acted fairly and reasonably. 
Ref: DRN41825272My starting point is Mr Ss motor insurance policy. It says: 
In dealing with your claim, under  the terms of this policy we may
a) defend  or settle any claim and choose  the solicitor who will act for you in any legal action,  
and
b) take any legal action  in your name or the name  of any other person covered by this policy
We can do any of these  in your name or in the name of any person claiming under this policy 
Anyone who makes  a claim  under this policy must  give us any reasonable information we 
ask for
This means,  under the policy  terms, Aioi can decide  how it will settle  a claim on Mr Ss car 
insurance, even if he doesnt agree with it. And this is a standard term found in most car 
insurance policies.  We think  insurers can rely on this term as long as its fair and reasonable 
to do so in the circumstances.
Ive gone on to look at the facts and evidence in this case to see if, in making its decision, 
Aioi acted fairly and reasonably. Mr S and Mr M said that Aioi decided the cause of the 
accident without  consulting them. From the records Aioi has provided I can see that after 
Mr M first notified the accident in November 2017, there was no contact  from him or Mr S 
until Mr S complained about the increased premium in March 2018.  During  this time, it would 
appear that Aioi texted  Mr S twice and left voice mails and wrote to him four times  asking  
him for his version of the accident. I think Aioi made  reasonable attempts to speak  to Mr S. 
Aioi said it had very limited information  about the accident from Mr Ms call in November 
2017, and detailed allegations  from the other  party. It said the police  didnt attend  and there
was no independent evidence. Aioi said it understood that Mr M had driven from a side road 
into a main road and went to turn into another side road on the right immediately afterwards.
Aioi said a lorry was reversing out of the side road which Mr M was exiting and so his view 
would have been partially obstructed. It said the other party was already established on the 
main road and would  have had right of way, and Mr M should have given way. Aioi said 
there was no evidence to confirm Mr Ss allegation  that the motorcyclist was speeding  and, 
in any event, that wasnt necessarily an act of negligence. 
Aioi said the description  and diagram of the accident Mr S provided in March  2018 indicated 
that he had been driving,  whereas it understood from Mr M and the other party  that Mr M 
had been driving.  Mr S told our investigator  he was driving and thats what he said in his 
email to Aioi on 18 April 2018. But Mr M reported  the accident  to Aioi and said he was 
driving and the other party took Mr Ms details  at the scene of the accident, so I think thats 
what happened. I can see that Mr S and Mr M have provided conflicting information  about 
who was driving, and I understand why Aioi said the confusion didnt support Mr Ss 
complaint that Aioi shouldnt have accepted liability for the claim. 
Aioi said based  on its previous experience  it anticipated that it would have great  difficulty in 
defending any claim and it accepted liability for the accident on a without prejudice basis. I 
havent seen a legal opinion in support  of this position, but Mr S and Mr M havent provided  
any compelling evidence  that challenges  Aiois view about the accident. I have seen that Aioi 
considered both versions of the accident,  diagrams and road positions. Ive also seen the 
report prepared by the third partys  engineer  which describes the impact of the accident as 
significant and puts the motorcycle beyond economic repair. I think  it was fair and 
reasonable for Aioi to accept liability  from the information available  about the accident and 
the lack of response from Mr S and Mr M. 
Ref: DRN41825273Mr S complained that his car hasnt been repaired. Aioi said from the valuation guides Mr Ss 
car had a pre-accident  value  around £850. Aioi has confirmed that it didnt assess the 
damage to Mr Ss car when it decided the value of his car made it beyond  economic repair.  I 
have seen the professional valuation guides and these  show  that Mr Ss car was worth  
around £850 which is equal  to the policy excess for when  Mr M was driving. The policy  said 
the most  Aioi would pay was the market  value of the car and so we wouldnt expect the 
insurer to pay more.  As the market value of Mr Ss car was about equal to the policy excess, 
I think it was fair for Aioi to decide that it didnt have  to pay towards  the repair of Mr Ss car. 
Aioi said Mr S hasnt made  any reference to its valuation of his car.
Although I understand this is hard for Mr S, I think Aiois decision to accept liability  for the 
accident was in line with the policy terms and took into account  the available evidence. And I 
think it was reasonable  for it to decide  to settle the complaint based on previous claims 
experience. I also think Aioi has treated Mr S fairly in not repairing his car given the pre-
accident value  of his car and the policy excess, and thats why I dont uphold Mr Ss 
complaint.
As a result of this claim, Mr S said his premium has increased. Aioi has said it will address 
the complaint  about the premium separately  and I havent considered  this here. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4182527