K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that MBNA Limited  allocates  payments to his earliest credit card balance 
transfer and not the balance transfer  with the promotional rate ending  first.
background
Mr P has made three MBNA balance transfers at 0% interest  with different promotional end 
dates. The last transfer he made  ends before the other two and he says he believed 
payments would clear  that balance first. Mr P says hes been told thats  not the case  and if 
he had known that, then he wouldnt have made the latest transfer.  He says the latest  
transfer must have  the highest interest  rate and so should be paid first in line with what the 
account statements  say. Mr P also says the payment allocation  information is unclear and 
wants MBNA to change the payment  order.
MBNA says its not made a mistake  and has acted in line with the account terms and 
conditions. It says those  terms  and conditions say payments  are made  to the earliest 
balance transfer  first and not to the one with a promotional rate ending  first. It also says Mr P 
should have contacted it if he was unsure about this.
Mr P brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator thought MBNA hadnt made a mistake.  
The adjudicator thought  MBNA had acted  in line with the account terms and conditions about  
the payment allocation  and if Mr P was unsure then he could have contacted  MBNA. The 
adjudicator didnt think it was our role to ask MBNA to change  the way it runs its business.
Mr P doesnt  accept that view and says its unacceptable. He maintains the last transfer has 
the highest interest rate and says the information  about all of this is unclear. Mr P would  like 
redress as hes financially worse off as a result.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
view as the adjudicator.  I realise Mr P will be disappointed by my decision.
Ive looked at Mr Ps account terms and conditions which I think  he would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. And Im satisfied those terms and conditions  make clear that 
where there  is more  than one balance with the same promotional  offers,  then payments are 
allocated to pay the balance with the earliest  promotional rate start date. I think  that 
condition is clear and so I dont think MBNA has made a mistake or acted unfairly  by 
applying the payments as it has done  here.
I appreciate that Mr P says that he read the information on MBNAs account statements 
which say that payments  are allocated to balances  with the highest  rate first. And that he 
says technically that must  mean the balance  with the offer ending first. But Im satisfied that 
all of the balances  here had the same interest rate of 0%. And whilst Im sorry to disagree  
with Mr P, I dont think that means any of the balances technically had a higher interest rate 
than each other just because they ended at different  times. Im also satisfied that the 
statements make  clear  that customers should refer back to the full terms and conditions  in 
any event.
I appreciate that Mr P has misunderstood  MBNAs  payment allocation method. But I cant  
fairly hold MBNA responsible for that, as Im satisfied that for the reasons  Ive set out, its not 
Ref: DRN41381392made a mistake.  And that I find the information  it provides is clear. I also cant fairly order 
MBNA or any other  business to change the way in which it makes these sorts of business  
decisions as we are not the regulator.
Overall I dont find MBNA has made a mistake or acted unfairly. So I cant  ask it to pay Mr P 
the redress he wishes or fairly order it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4138139