K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  with a mortgage.
background
In 1992 Mr and Mrs C took out PPI at the same time as taking  out a mortgage. Both were  
done in-branch during a meeting.
At the time of the sale Mr and Mrs C were  employed   Mr C says he was entitled to sick pay of 
six months full followed  by six months half pay and Mrs C says she was entitled to 12 months 
full sick pay. They said they had several  thousand  pounds in savings and both were in good  
health at the time.
The policy provided  cover  for accident and sickness, unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to meet Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage payment of £150  a 
month (split  equally 50/50) in the event of a successful  claim for accident and sickness  or 
unemployment. And it would do so for up to 24 months per claim for accident and sickness 
and up to 12 months per claim  for unemployment. At the time, it cost less than £10 a month.
BoS records show the mortgage account ended  in 2004.
In summary  Mr and Mrs Cs representative  raised the following complaint points on their 
behalf:
they were unsure  theyd taken out PPI
the policy terms and conditions including the exclusions  werent  explained
because the sale was advised  and they werent  told these things, the sale was non-
compliant
they were entitled to substantial employee  benefits and were  in steady work so they 
didnt need PPI
they held savings of over £5,000  which they couldve used to make  their payments
they held life insurance and an endowment policy.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said that because 
things happened  many years ago, there  wasnt enough evidence to persuade  them that PPI 
wasnt presented as optional. And there  was nothing to suggest  PPI was unsuitable for Mr 
and Mrs C.
Mr and Mrs C, through  their representative,  disagree. Because  the complaint couldnt be 
resolved informally  it comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website. And while I dont intend to set that all out in this decision Ive 
taken into account  whats relevant here in deciding this complaint.
Ref: DRN40308362Having done so and carefully considered  the information provided by both parties to this 
dispute, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below.
did Mr and Mrs C know they had a choice?
BoS needed to make it clear to Mr and Mrs C that PPI was optional.
Because things  happened  so long ago  and its been several years since  the mortgage 
account ended - BoS hasnt got any of the paperwork from the time. And this isnt surprising 
or unusual  given the passage of time. But it means  theres limited evidence  about what  
happened. 
So taking everything into account - while  I accept  its possible that things went wrong and 
either BoS mispresented  PPI as being a compulsory part of the mortgage or it added  it 
without Mr and Mrs Cs knowledge, I think its just as likely that BoS presented  the policy to 
Mr and Mrs C as being optional and they agreed to take it out.
did BoS provide advice?
BoS says because things happened  in-branch  this was an advised sale.  And given that Ive 
not seen anything to suggest  something different happened I think this was an advised sale.
This means  BoS had to check  if PPI was suitable  or right for Mr and Mrs C. And it had to 
give them  enough  clear  and timely  information  about the recommended  policy so they could 
make an informed decision about whether to accept the recommendation or not.
the advice
Given Mr and Mrs Cs meeting  with BoS was about  a mortgage, its likely the adviser had 
some information about their circumstances. Its also the case  that BoS  internal records 
appear to show Mr and Mrs C were asked questions about their employment  and their 
health. And while I cant be certain at what stage of the process they were  asked about 
these things, it seems reasonable to conclude that BoS took some steps to ensure  PPI was 
suitable for them. But because theres  no paperwork from the time I dont know if BoS took 
all reasonable steps to ensure PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs C. So I accept its possible 
BoS didnt do all that it should  fairly and reasonably have done when it provided advice and 
recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But in light of Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, I think PPI was ultimately suitable 
for them. So I dont  think it was wrong  for BoS to have recommended  it. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs C were both eligible for the cover.
they were both employed and in good  health at the time, so they werent affected by 
the key exclusions  and limitations of cover.
Mr and Mrs C say they had generous sick pay, savings as well as life insurance and 
an endowment policy,  so PPI wasnt needed.
Firstly Mrs C says she was entitled to 12 months  sick pay. I think this level of sick 
pay is quite unusual and in my view is not consistent with her stated job role or her 
level of income at the time of the sale. I think its likely she was entitled to some sick 
pay, but Im not persuaded it was at the level Mrs C says it was at the time.  
Ref: DRN40308363In terms of life cover  and the endowment policy  neither of these wouldve been 
helpful in the situation where Mr and/or Mrs C couldnt work, so I dont need  to 
consider these further.
Notwithstanding Mr and Mrs Cs existing  means, the policy  wouldve paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and for longer if necessary  up to 24 months  per claim for 
accident and sickness and up to 12 months  for unemployment. This wouldve allowed 
Mr and Mrs C to use their existing provision to meet other ongoing household  or fixed 
expenditure. 
So given PPI was protecting  their mortgage - a long term financial commitment  - I still 
think they had a need for cover and it wouldve played a useful part in helping them 
protect their home if any of the insured risks became  a reality. 
the cost appears  to have been affordable.
Overall I think  PPI was ultimately  suitable  for Mr and Mrs C, so it wasnt  wrong  for BoS to 
have recommended it to them.
the information  
I think its likely Mr and Mrs C were  told something about the policy  during the meeting. 
Given the context  of the meeting  a discussion about a mortgage - I dont think  they 
wouldve gone ahead without knowing something about it and its cost. But I accept its 
possible BoS didnt  provide Mr and Mrs C with all of the information they needed  to make an 
informed decision about the recommended cover  including telling them  clearly about  the 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover.
But in light of their circumstances at the time,  I dont  think  Mr and Mrs C wouldve likely acted 
differently and declined PPI had BoS done  anything more. I say this because, as I indicated  
above, I think Mr and Mrs C had some  good  reasons  to take the policy out. The evidence  
about their circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  wasnt fundamentally 
wrong for them; they were eligible for its benefits; and it provided cover that, despite its 
limitations and exclusions  could have proved useful to them  should  the insured risks have 
become a reality.
And it is in those circumstances that I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs C 
would have taken  out PPI in any event.
conclusion
Overall and in light of my findings above, I dont  think Mr and Mrs C have lost out as a result 
of taking out PPI with their mortgage.  Because of this, BoS doesnt have to do anything  to 
put things right.
Ref: DRN40308364my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 February  2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4030836