K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that TSB Bank PLC (TSB)  stopped  crediting interest to his two Classic Plus 
Accounts in 2016. He feels he kept to the terms and conditions of the account  and that 
interest ought to have  been paid until he removed the funds from those accounts. 
background
On 10 April  2014  Mr O opened  a Classic  Plus  account. He then opened  a second one on the  22 April 
2014. Interest stopped being  paid on both accounts  in April 2016, which TSB said was because Mr O 
no longer  met the terms  and conditions  applicable to the account. 
The relevant  terms and  conditions were  these;  that Mr O was to deposit a minimum of £500 per 
month to each account,  and that he  register  online for paperless statements and  correspondence. Mr O 
says he met these conditions. TSB say that  once a  customer elects to be paperless, they  are required  
to view any correspondence sent to them on a regular basis. But Mr O disputes this was a condition made known to him at the  time he opened the accounts.  TSB also say that  it wrote  to Mr O warning  
him that  to get monthly credit interest,  he would need  to change his preferences  to paperless.
Mr O accepts his preferences  for receiving paperless statements  and correspondence  were changed, 
but disputes that it was  he who  effected those  changes. TSB are  unable  to say how or who changed 
them. TSBs argument is that irrespective  of who made the changes Mr O  failed to change those 
preferences back, and  thus failed to keep within  the terms and conditions and was thus not entitled  to 
receive interest. As such TSB denied any wrongdoing in relation to the  substance  of the  complaint, 
but did accept that there had been poor service in relation to dealing  with his complaint  and providing 
updates. In relation to that they offered £100  compensation  for distress and inconvenience, 
which Mr O accepted.
Mr O was unhappy with TSBs response  in relation to his complaint about the interest and so 
an adjudicator  from this service looked into the complaint.  Our adjudicator  was of the view 
that as there  was no evidence to show that Mr O changed his preferences, or was informed that 
interest would no longer be  applied that TSB had acted unfairly and  should put Mr O back  in the 
position he would have been in  if his interest payment had not stopped. She suggested TSB should 
pay Mr O the interest he  is due from  the point his interest stopped, in April 2016, to the  point he 
removed the funds from his account, plus 8% interest.
TSB disagreed with that view and so the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will not repeat the adjudicators 
summary of the background  to this complaint because it is accurate  and full and I want to 
avoid repetition.  But, if it appears that I havent mentioned something it is not because I have 
ignored it, but because  I dont think  its relevant  to the issues I have to decide. It is accepted 
that interest was  payable  on both of Mr Os accounts  since their inception  until April 2016. It seems  
reasonable therefore to conclude that  Mr O had  registered for  internet  banking  and changed his 
preferences to paperless statements and correspondence. It is also clear that he  met the requirement to 
pay in to each account  at least £500 per month.
I have read the terms  and conditions relating  to the  account  and the Paperless Terms and  Conditions 
and there  is nothing in there which states that it is a requirement for a  customer to log into their 
Ref: DRN40982392account. What it does say  is that if there is inactivity over certain periods of time, correspondence will 
be sent to the customer and  ultimately they will be switched back  to paper statements  and 
correspondence. But  there is no mention that  interest will then not be  paid. But TSB  do say  they wrote 
to Mr O to warn him of the  effect of not changing back his preferences and  it is on this point that TSB 
rely. Unfortunately TSB  cannot  provide  a copy of the correspondence they sent to Mr O. All they  can 
provide are  undated generic  precedent letters. Our adjudicator wasnt  satisfied that this was sufficient 
evidence to show that the  letters  were  actually sent to Mr O. She took account of the fact that Mr O 
had diligently operated  his accounts by funding  them with £500 per  month and had  made  the initial 
changes to his preferences. She  found that it would be more likely  than not that had he  received the 
correspondence TSB  say they sent him, then he would have  acted upon it. Mr O has of  course  
confirmed that he did not change his  preferences and nor did  he receive the  communications  TSB say 
they sent.
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. I have  some  
sympathy for TSB since I understand that they have been somewhat hindered by an IT 
failure making it difficult to obtain  copies of correspondence sent out. However,  I must 
determine the complaint on the evidence provided and in my view I agree with our 
adjudicator and uphold this complaint.
I have thought about the £100 offer of compensation TSB made to Mr O and I think  that this 
is reasonable. It is in line with the awards  this service would make  for distress and 
inconvenience in circumstances  like this, and I think it is fair. I have also thought about the 
adjudicators suggestion  that TSB should  pay Mr O the interest the accounts would have 
earned from the date it was stopped  until the date he removed the funds together  with a 
further 8% interest  on that sum. I also think that is fair
my final decision
So my decision is that TSB Bank plc should  pay Mr O £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience in responding  to his complaint and for failing  to provide timely updates, and to 
pay the interest it would  have paid on his two accounts up to the date he removed the funds, 
and a further 8% interest on that sum.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4098239