K820x#14complaint
Mr R complained about Liverpool  Victoria  Insurance  Company Limiteds service in 
connection with his motor insurance policy. 
background 
Mr R told LV that another  car had collided with his car while  his car was stationary in a car 
park. His car was damaged and he wanted  LV to pay for its repair. LV were willing to do so. 
They said that they would waive his policy excess and he could keep his no claims discount  
(NCD). But the other  driver  didnt  accept liability. So LV said that, as there  was no other 
driver they could recover their costs from, if Mr R made a claim it would go down as a fault 
claim against him. 
Mr R didnt think it fair that the matter would affect  his future premiums even though it wasnt  
his fault. He wanted LV to confirm before he made  a claim under his policy that theyd hold 
the other driver liable. He also said that LV didnt investigate or progress the matter  properly. 
LV didnt agree. They felt theyd done  as much as they could. The investigator didnt 
recommend that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld.  She thought that LV had done what 
they could to get information to try and progress things, so that Mr R would  be able to make  
a claim and that theyd  acted reasonably  within the constraints they had. 
Mr R didnt agree and so his complaint  has been passed to me to decide  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator  explained, we dont  decide  who is liable for an accident, as thats a 
matter for the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this kind is simply to investigate 
whether an insurer  has acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with their policys  terms and 
conditions when they made  their decision as regards who was responsible. In this case LV 
hadnt yet made a decision because Mr R hasnt  made a claim. He wanted  LV to decide  first 
that the other driver  was liable. LV did liaise with the other drivers insurer, but they denied  
liability. 
LV waived Mr Rs policy excess and said it didnt affect his NCD. But LV said that if he 
claimed under the policy, they wouldnt be able to recover their losses from the other  driver  
without proof  of their fault, and this was likely  to impact on Mr Rs future  insurance  
premiums. 
But Mr R wanted LV to repair his car without the matter being  treated as if it were his fault. 
He said LV that hadnt got CCTV footage  that he said could  have shown that the other  driver  
caused the accident, and that they didnt arrange for an engineer to inspect his car, and 
didnt take account of the other drivers  previous accidents. He also felt that LV generally 
took too long to progress  the matter.
Ref: DRN46748292Ive looked at LVs file. It shows that Mr R had told LV that he would first check  if there was 
any CCTV footage  of the incident and get back to them. But he didnt then provide this or tell 
LV who to approach for it. Its clear from their file that LV continued to ask him for this 
information and were happy to contact the owner  of the CCTV footage  directly. 
But theres nothing  to say that there  was relevant  CCTV footage anyway, or that, if there  
was, that it would have helped to establish liability. In particular, LVs file notes say that Mr R 
told them  hed seen  the CCTV footage but it didnt show  any collision. However its clear  that 
LV were  willing to try and obtain the footage, which shows that that they were  actively trying  
to investigate the matter.  They also tried to do so in other ways. They  contacted the police to 
see if there was any report of a collision,  but the police  had no record  of one. I think  that LV 
did do what they could  to try to establish what had happened. 
Mr R didnt want to get a repair quote  for LV until they confirmed that theyd pay for the 
repair and it wouldnt affect his premiums. But LV explained to Mr R that they couldnt  
progress things until there was some  estimate  of the loss Mr R claimed. LV were willing to 
inspect Mr Rs car, so they could  repair it if he made  a claim. They did arrange an engineer  
inspection but LV wasnt able to make that. But when Mr R made  it clear  to LV that he still 
wanted to progress matters, LV arranged another one. While that engineer inspection 
showed that there was some damage  to Mr Rs car, and valued the cost of the repairs,  it 
didnt confirm that his car was damaged by the other  driver.  So it didnt help prove the other 
drivers liability.
Mr R felt that photos he said he had on his phone, of paint transfer from the other  drivers car 
to his, helped  prove  liability.  LV asked him to send these photos, and the investigator 
suggested ways  of doing so, but Mr R didnt send them to LV. He said he showed the photos 
to LVs engineer  who inspected his car. But as the engineer had no recollection  of that, LV 
asked Mr R again for the photos. They said that, though they wouldnt on their own prove  
that the other driver  had damaged Mr Rs car, LV could have their engineer review them and 
they could send them to the other  drivers insurer as evidence that might help. But Mr R 
didnt send LV the photos.  
Mr R also said that the other driver had caused previous accidents and had been  banned  
from driving, and LV should have taken  account  of that. But LV didnt have  any objective 
evidence of that, and, even if it were true, that still doesnt prove that the other driver caused 
the damage to Mr Rs car.  
Mr R wont make a claim because LV wont say the other driver is liable. I can see that Mr R 
is adamant that the damage wasnt his fault and so he feels  frustrated that he may have to 
pay more for his insurance  in future through no fault of his own.  But an insurer has to 
consider both accounts of events. And as the investigator  explained to Mr R, an insurer cant  
be expected to force a third party to admit liability for an alleged  incident. 
LV have waived  Mr Rs excess and the incident  hasnt affected  his NCD. LV have told Mr R 
how they would deal with a claim if he did make  one. So I think  theyve acted fairly and 
reasonably and dont see that they can be expected to do any more.  
Mr R can choose whether to make  a claim under his policy  and have LV deal with it as 
theyve said, or choose not to make a claim for it under his policy and pay for the repairs  
himself. But either way I dont think that LV have done anything wrong and so I dont require 
them to do anything else.
Ref: DRN46748293my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4674829