K822xComplaint
Miss B and Mr B are unhappy with the increases in the premium of their home insurance 
policy held with St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews).
Background
In 1993, Miss B and Mr B took out the policy with Bank A. The policy  continued to run until 
2018, when it was cancelled. Although Bank A sold the insurance, St Andrews underwrote 
the policy and set the price from 2002 onwards. So, it is responsible for answering 
Miss B and Mr Bs complaint about the cost of the policy during this period.
In 2018, following receipt of a cheaper  quote,  Miss B and Mr B cancelled  their policy. 
Unhappy with the way that the cost of their original policy had increased over the years, 
Miss B and Mr B complained to Bank  A. 
As part of their complaint, Miss B and Mr B said they thought Bank A had treated them  
unfairly as they didnt  think the annual premium  increases were justified. They also said they 
could have obtained similar cover  with Bank  A for cheaper. To put things right, 
Miss B and Mr B requested that Bank A refund them any excess  premiums they may have 
paid over the years. 
As Bank A wasnt responsible for setting  the price of the policy, it referred Miss B and Mr Bs 
complaint to St Andrews. In response to the complaint, St Andrews (on a Bank A branded 
letterhead) said it didnt  think  it had done  anything wrong as the premiums had been based 
on the level of cover required and were  in line with the general rates relating to 
Miss B and Mr Bs postcode. St Andrews did, however, offer to pay Miss B and Mr B £150 in 
recognition of their trouble and upset.
Unhappy with their response, Miss B and Mr B asked our service  for an independent review  
of their complaint.  Following our review of their complaint, St Andrews offered to refund 
Miss B and Mr B a further £3,315.74 in addition  to the £150 compensation already paid. 
St Andrews  also explained  it would include additional compensation on each overpayment 
at 8% simple interest per year  to compensate Miss B and Mr B for being out of pocket of 
that money.  And finally,  St Andrews  offered  a further additional £100 as compensation for 
the trouble and upset it had caused  Miss B and Mr B.  
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  Having considered St Andrews offer,  she 
thought it was a fair way to resolve things. 
Miss B and Mr B responded  saying they didnt  agree  with the outcome as they didnt  believe  
the offer went far enough to put things  right.  
As the matter hasnt  been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN46265402Having carefully considered whats  happened,  I agree  with our investigator. I think  
St Andrews  offer of compensation is fair. I know this will come as a disappointment to 
Miss B and Mr B, so Id like to explain why Ive reached the outcome I have.
St Andrews  became the insurer of Miss B and Mr Bs home insurance in 2002. This means 
it was responsible for setting the cost of this insurance each year from that point onwards. 
As a result, I can only look at whether St Andrews, as the insurer,  treated Miss B and Mr B 
fairly throughout the time they held their home insurance policy with it, from 2002 onwards. 
I would like to make it clear that I dont  have the power to tell a business what it should 
charge its customers for insurance products. If I did, I would  be in effect determining or 
telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role.
Insurers will assess and treat risk differently and will charge different premiums based  on 
their assessment of risk. One insurer may decide  its taking a significant risk insuring a 
particular property, whereas another insurer might  not  and there will be different factors  
and reasons for each insurers decision. Ultimately,  its up to an insurer to decide  what it 
charges for insurance and I dont have the power  to tell an insurer what  its assessment of 
risk should  be.
But I can look at whether St Andrews treated Miss B and Mr B fairly during the time they 
held their home insurance policy with it. If I find that St Andrews hasnt treated 
Miss B and Mr B fairly,  I will look to see what compensation  would  be fair and, in this case,  
whether I think the amount St Andrews has offered is fair.
When St Andrews took over the underwriting of Miss B and Mr B, the policy  cost £363.53. 
The policys  cost increased  over the years and in 2018 it had increased  to around £1,056.03 
 so Ive looked to see what happened.
Miss B and Mr Bs policy automatically renewed  each  year.  With automatic renewals there is 
a chance that if customers dont engage  with the renewal  process  or shop around  for other  
suitable policies,  they may find themselves in a position where  they are paying  much more 
for their cover than a new customer would pay for a similar policy.
An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal  
and there  are often  risk-related reasons for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer  knew,  
or ought reasonably to have known,  the customers werent engaging with the renewals 
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these customers fairly  and 
that they dont  take advantage of the customers behaviour  by increasing their premiums  just 
because the customer  didnt engage  with the cost.
Looking at the contact Miss B and Mr B had with St Andrews over the years, I can see that 
in 2011 Miss B and Mr B made a claim on their policy for accidental damage. Claims do 
affect the renewal  price  in subsequent years, so its likely this would have  had an effect on 
what Miss B and Mr B paid for their insurance. So, while there have  been  increases to the 
premiums over the years, there may have  some legitimate reasons for part of the premium 
increases. 
Ref: DRN46265403Having looked  at Miss B and Mr Bs journey  overall, there were periods where Miss B and 
Mr B didnt engage, and the policy automatically renewed with the premiums  increasing. In 
this case, St Andrews  has offered  to refund some of the cost of the insurance premiums  
Miss B and Mr B paid from 2008 onwards. So, if at any point between  2008 and 2018, the 
cost of the policy rose above an amount of £462.59  (the amount St Andrews has estimated 
to be the cost of an alternative policy at the time), St Andrews has offered to refund the 
difference of what Miss B and Mr B paid above that amount. Based on what  Ive seen, I think  
this is fair - Ill explain  why.
St Andrews  has told us that it didnt have access to the customer contact history from the 
previous insurer, so it wouldnt have known whether Miss B and Mr B were engaging with 
the renewal process  until a few years after it took over as the insurer.  Its also told us that its 
overall cost of insuring  Miss B and Mr Bs property exceeded the cost of the premium set by 
the previous insurer.  So, it says the initial increases to Miss B and Mr Bs annual premium 
were intended  to bring the premium in line with the actual cost of the policy  it offered.  
Having thought about what  St Andrews has said, I find their explanation as to why theyre 
not refunding  premiums  from the point at which they became the insurer,  reasonable. Im 
satisfied that in the absence of customer contact information from the previous insurer, it 
would have been a few years before St Andrews would have realised that Miss B and Mr B 
werent engaging with the renewal process.  Im also satisfied there  were  legitimate reasons 
as to why St Andrews  increased the cost of Miss B and Mr Bs premium in the earlier years.  
Ive also considered whether St Andrews should be refunding part of the premiums prior to 
2008. I think there would  be reasonable grounds to ask St Andrews to apply the premium 
charged in 2006  (£566.07)  to all subsequent years and refund the difference between  this 
amount and the actual amount paid. However,  having completed a rough calculation,  
St Andrews  current offer appears to be more generous and would result in a higher amount 
of compensation  for Miss B and Mr B. So, I dont think it needs to offer any further redress to 
Miss B and Mr B. 
In their submissions to our service, Miss B and Mr B have told us they were able to obtain  
alternative policies  for a lot less than what they were paying for their policy. They say this 
shows that they werent treated fairly by St Andrews. While  I dont  doubt  what  
Miss B and Mr B have said about  being  able to obtain cheaper insurance  policies, I dont 
think this amounts a fair comparison to the policy they held with St Andrews. Ill explain why.
Often, when new policies are taken out, they come with a significant initial discount which  
insurers aim to recoup  over the years through customer retention.  This is often referred to as 
new customer discount and has the effect of reducing the initial cost of the insurance  
policy.  
Its also worth noting that more recently, online practices and price comparison websites 
have resulted in insurers  offering slightly more competitive prices. Some customers can now 
manage their policies online,  thereby  reducing administrative costs to insurers  with the 
resulting savings being applied to a reduction  in the cost a customer  pays for their policy.
Ref: DRN46265404Insurance policies  provided by different insurers may involve different benefits and/or levels 
of benefits and the level of service offered to customers  may also be different. So, we do 
need to be careful  when  comparing the cost of insurance policies, as there  may be some 
known and possibly  some unknown factors that could  impact on the overall cost of the 
policy.
In addition to this, its worth mentioning that insurers can also have a different perception of 
the risk a customer presents  and again the cost between  insurers  can be different based 
on each insurers perceived risk of the thing its undertaking to insure. As was the case  with 
Miss B and Mr Bs policy, when St Andrews  became the insurer  of this policy.
All the factors Ive mentioned above,  could mean  that the cost of the policy Miss B and Mr B 
held with St Andrews  and renewed  in subsequent years, would  be different to the cost of a 
policy taken out more recently. So, while Miss B and Mr B could take out a policy  at a much 
lower cost today, for the reasons explained,  I dont  think  it would be fair to compare the cost 
of different  policies taken  out at different times as if they were like-for-like.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, St Andrews Insurance Plcs  offer to refund some of the costs 
of Miss B and Mr Bs policy is fair. 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc should pay Miss B and Mr B the £3,315.74 (in addition  to the 
£150 already paid to Miss B and Mr B).
St Andrews  Insurance Plc should also calculate the additional compensation (set at 8% 
simple interest per year)  owed to Miss B and Mr B for being out of pocket of that money.
St Andrews  Insurance Plcs should also pay the further  additional compensation offer of 
£100 for the trouble caused to Miss B and Mr B. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2020
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4626540