K821x#15complaint
Ms C is complaining about  Legal and General Assurance Society Limited because it 
declined a claim on her critical illness insurance  policy.
background
In 2016, Ms C joined a group critical illness insurance scheme  through  her employer, with 
cover provided by Legal and General. I understand the scheme covers her for £500,000.
Sadly, later in the same year, Ms C was diagnosed  with multiple  myeloma.  As part of her 
treatment, she had a bone marrow transplant.
Prior to joining the scheme, in 2012,  Ms C was diagnosed with a solitary sacral 
plasmacytoma and received treatment.
Following her most recent  illness, Ms C claimed on her policy for two conditions  cancer 
and major organ  transplant, which includes bone  marrow. Legal and General declined both 
claims, relying on pre-existing and related condition clauses in the policy.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I thought this complaint should be 
upheld. An extract is attached and forms part of this decision.
In response, Ms C told us she had nothing to add, except to confirm that Professor Y is 
female - not male as my provisional decision suggests. Legal  and General  raised  no 
objections to my provisional decision and said it will look to follow  the recommendations 
stated.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party had anything  to add to 
my provisional decision, my conclusions havent changed.
That said,  I do apologise for using the wrong gender pronoun to describe Professor Y and 
for any offence this might  have caused.
Reading Legal  and Generals response, I take this to mean  it will look to pay the full 
compensation Ive recommended, including the amount above £150,000,  if a full assessment 
shows the claim is payable. If Ive misinterpreted that, it should let me know as soon as 
possible as Ms C should know this when shes deciding whether to accept my decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
If Ms C accepts  my decision, Legal and General Assurance Society Limited must put things  
right using the method set out in my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN48758132Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN48758133extract from provisional decision:
my provisional  findings
claim for cancer
Legal and General has provided a copy of the policy terms. These include  a pre-existing condition 
clause that says:
Pre-Existing Conditions Exclusion
In respect of an insured person, we will not pay benefit for any insured condition . . . . that he 
has already  met the definition of before  the day he was included for cover under the scheme.
. . . .
For the purpose of Part 3 Section 1 (a) (above). Where the insured person  has suffered from 
any malignant  tumours defined  as cancer, we will not pay benefit for any subsequent cancer. 
For this purpose the subsequent cancer doesnt have to be connected to, or associated  with, 
the earlier  diagnosis of cancer.
I think  the exclusion is clear that no cancer claim will be paid if the claimant has had a previous 
cancer diagnosis, whether  the illnesses are connected or not. In this case, I understand Ms Cs illness 
in 2012 was a form of cancer and Legal and General has said she would have had a valid cancer  
claim if the policy had been in force  at the time. 
On balance, I think  Ms Cs situation in relation to her claim for cancer is caught by the pre-existing  
condition exclusion and that Legal and General  was entitled to rely on it to decline  this part of her 
claim.
claim for major organ transplant
The policy terms also include a related  condition clause that says:
Related Conditions  Exclusions
We will not pay benefit  for any insured condition  occurring within  two years of an insured 
persons cover starting under the scheme that has resulted from any related condition for 
which they:
i. have received  treatment,
ii. have, or had, symptoms of,
iii. have sought advice on, or
iv. were  aware  of.
For the above, the insured  condition may have directly or indirectly resulted  from a related 
condition. The decision as to whether  something is a related condition will be based on the 
opinion of a medical adviser chosen by us. A list of related conditions is shown  in Part 5.
Part 5 lists the specific conditions related to major organ  transplant  as follows:
Major organ  transplant
Cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, cardiac  failure, chronic liver disease or failure,  
leukaemia, pulmonary  hypertension, chronic  kidney disease, chronic lung disease, diabetes  
mellitus, chronic  pancreatitis, cystic fibrosis.
Ref: DRN48758134This effectively says Legal and General  wont pay out during the first two years of joining the scheme  
if the member suffers an illness that directly or indirectly  resulted  from another  illness they had before 
joining.
The policy included  a list of illnesses that are automatically considered to be related  to a major organ  
transplant. Ive seen  nothing to indicate Ms C previously had any of these  conditions, but the list 
wasnt exhaustive. So the decision I have to make  is whether it was reasonable for Legal and General  
to conclude her 2016 myeloma (which was treated by the bone marrow transplant shes claiming for) 
directly or indirectly resulted from her 2012 plasmacytoma.
My overriding  aim in considering this complaint is to reach an outcome thats fair and reasonable 
based on all the circumstances and evidence  provided. Im aware  the policy  terms say the decision on 
whether two conditions are linked is one for Legal and Generals medical  adviser to make.  But that 
doesnt preclude  me from taking a different view and making an award that could ultimately lead to 
the claim being paid. If I dont think the medical advisers view is supported by the available evidence, 
Im entitled  to conclude thats a fair and reasonable outcome.
In declining the claim,  Legal  and General said Ms Cs plasmacytoma was a precursor of her 
myeloma, meaning theres a link between the plasmacytoma and her transplant. This view was 
supported by reference  to medical research giving  statistics on patients who have plasmacytoma  and 
go on to develop myeloma. It said that according to one study, in one series of patients  with solitary  
bone plasmacytoma  treated by radiotherapy, 53% converted to myeloma. It also said The American 
Society of Haematology notes a majority of patients with solitary bone plasmacytoma  develop 
myeloma after a median  of two to three  years.
In contrast to Legal and Generals medical advisers, Ms Cs treating consultant, Professor Y, has 
been very supportive of her claim. Hes repeatedly said theres no link between Ms Cs plasmacytoma  
and myeloma. In a letter dated 14 August  2017,  he said:
I first met [Ms C] in 2012 when she presented with back pain and was diagnosed with a 
Solitary Bone Plasmacytoma  (SBP).  This was on the basis of a clear  bone marrow and no 
other detectable disease  on whole body scans. The sacral plasmacytoma  was treated with 
radical radiotherapy  and subsequent  whole body staging investigations confirmed a complete 
remission (cure). Around  30% of solitary  bone plasmacytomas are cured with radiotherapy 
alone.
In November 2016, [Ms C] was noted to be anaemic and had a bone marrow biopsy  that 
revealed the diagnosis of multiple  myeloma. Whole body scans showed  no recurrence of the 
sacral plasmacytoma,  so this was regarded  as a new diagnosis.
In a subsequent letter dated  11 May 2018, Professor Y said:
I confirm that [Ms C] has not required any further treatment for her sacral  plasmacytoma, this 
condition was completely cured with radiotherapy.
And most  recently in a letter dated 16 November  2018, Professor Y said:
Whilst myeloma and plasmacytoma can be linked, in [Ms Cs] specific case there is no 
medical evidence to categorically link the plasmacytoma of the sacrum  and her myeloma as 
there has been no indication of disease  activity  in the sacrum  during her myeloma  diagnosis.
In response to some  of Professor Ys comments, Legal and Generals  medical advisers  have said that 
if around 30% of solitary bone plasmacytomas are cured by radiotherapy alone, that implies 70% 
arent. And while Professor Y has said Ms Cs plasmacytoma is cured (or in complete  remission), a 
subsequent diagnosis of myeloma  indicates it was in remission rather than cured.
Ref: DRN48758135In reaching my provisional decision, Ive carefully  weighed up the contrasting  views of the medical 
professionals whove commented on the case. After doing  so, I find the views of Professor Y to be 
more persuasive.  Hes been  involved  with Ms Cs treatment  since her first diagnosis in 2012 and is 
therefore best placed  to comment on the state  of her particular illness. Further, his view that her 
plasmacytoma was completely cured and that her myeloma was therefore a new diagnosis appears to 
be based on appropriate tests and scans. While I agree  his comment that 30% of solitary  bone 
plasmacytomas are cured by radiotherapy suggests 70% arent, 30% is a large proportion  of patients 
and he seems  clear  in his view Ms C is in that group. 
Legal and Generals view the diagnoses are related appears to be based on generic statistical 
evidence rather than anything  specific about Ms Cs situation. Theres no dispute there can be a link 
between plasmacytoma and myeloma and Professor Y has said as much.  It may also be true that the 
majority of patients with solitary bone plasmacytoma treated by radiotherapy convert to myeloma. But 
I dont think this statistic  necessarily demonstrates theres always  a link where  the patient has had 
both diagnoses or that a generic potential link justifies applying the exclusion in Ms Cs policy. I think 
the wording of the exclusion means there needs to be evidence of a link, either direct or indirect,  in 
this particular case.  
As an expert in the field and Ms Cs treating consultant, I believe Professor Y is best placed to offer 
an opinion on whether her diagnoses are related.  Ive no reason to think  hes not aware of the generic 
information and statistics  Legal and General has referred to, but despite that he feels  able to say her 
plasmacytoma was completely cured and that theres no link to the later diagnosis.  As far as I can 
see, Legal  and General  hasnt so far been able to point to anything specific in Ms Cs medical records 
to indicate thats not the case.
In its response to the investigators assessment dated  17 December  2018, Legal and General  
accepted that in this case it cannot be proved that the SBP and subsequent myeloma were  related.  I 
agree with that statement and this is an important part of the reasons I believe its unreasonable for 
Legal and General to rely on the related conditions exclusion to decline this claim.
other issues
Some of the submissions made in support  of Ms Cs claim refer to an error by her HR department at 
work that meant she didnt have the opportunity to ask for a policy that was underwritten at the outset, 
which would have meant the pre-existing and related  condition clauses werent included.
From further enquiries of Legal and General,  my understanding is that underwriting is only done when 
an employee  is seeking cover above five times their annual salary, which is possibly  not the case  
here, and only for the amount of cover over that limit. Either  way, if Ms C had applied for an 
underwritten policy, Legal and General  has said her previous illness would have meant she wasnt 
been offered  critical  illness cover and thats broadly consistent with my experience of how an insurer 
would typically handle this situation, particularly  because her first illness was still relatively recent.
In light of what Ive said above, I dont  imagine  this issue  is now as important to Ms C as it might have 
been before.  But from what Ive said above, I cant  see that shed be in a better  position  if she had 
applied for her cover  in a different  way. But if this is something shes still concerned about and feels  it 
was ultimately due to an error by her HR department, it sounds like thats where she needs to address 
any further complaint.  
putting things  right
While I think  Legal and General was entitled to rely on the pre-existing condition exclusion to reject 
Ms Cs claim  for cancer, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for it to decline her claim for bone 
marrow transplant using the related condition  clause for the reasons Ive explained.
To put things right, I think Legal and General should now reassess Ms Cs claim  for bone marrow 
transplant without relying on the related  condition  clause. If the medical evidence  shows she meets 
Ref: DRN48758136the other criteria set out in the policy terms, it should then pay her claim with appropriate interest from 
the date she made it.
I also think  having  her claim declined  at a time when she was extremely ill would have been extremely 
hard for Ms C and I think she should be compensated for the unnecessary trouble and upset shes 
suffered. The impact of these events,  and therefore the amount to award, can be difficult to assess. 
But I think the impact would have been significant given  the amount  of money involved and everything 
else that was going on in her life, meaning a substantial additional payment of £1,000 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I think this should be paid whether or not it turns  out the claim is 
ultimately payable.
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If I 
consider fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend the business  pay the balance.
determination and  award
I plan to uphold the complaint. If the claim is payable when its reassessed without reference to the 
related condition  clause, I consider fair compensation to be A + B + C, where:
A = the full policy sum assured at the date of Ms Cs claim;
B = simple  interest at 8% per year on A from the date of Ms Cs claim to the date its paid. 
Income tax may be payable on the interest; and
C = £1,000 for the trouble and upset  Ms C suffered  because  her claim  was rejected for an 
invalid reason.
Assuming the claim is payable, I currently intend to make an award requiring Legal  and General to 
pay compensation of £150,000 plus simple interest at 8% per year on this amount from the date of Ms 
Cs claim to the date of payment.
If it turns out the claim isnt payable for some other reason, my award  would revert to payment of 
£1,000 for the trouble and upset caused by the way Legal and General have handled things to this 
point.
I think  its also appropriate  to point out here that if Legal  and General  does find another reason for 
saying the claim isnt payable, Ms C will have the right to raise  a new complaint with Legal and 
General in the first instance and then refer that new complaint to us if shes not satisfied with its 
response.
recommendation
Assuming it turns out the claim is payable, the amount I consider to be fair compensation  will exceed  
£150,000, and I intend to recommend Legal and General pay Ms C the balance.
 
This recommendation cant be part of my determination or award. It wont bind Legal and General  in 
the same way. Its unlikely Ms C could  accept my decision and go to court  to ask for the balance.  She 
may want to consider getting independent legal  advice before deciding whether  to accept  my final 
decision.
To help Ms C make an informed decision, it would  be helpful  if Legal and General  could confirm, in its 
response to this provisional decision, whether  it would be willing to follow this recommendation  in the 
event the claim is payable.  
Ref: DRN48758137my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint.  I currently think Legal and General  
Assurance Society Limited should put things right using the method set out above.
Ref: DRN4875813