K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that Ulster Bank  Limited mis-sold her a personal loan because she was 
charged an interest rate higher than she expected.
background
Mrs K visited  a branch  of Ulster Bank to apply for a personal loan. She says that the 
bank quoted an interest rate but she later found out that she was being  charged at five 
times the rate she was quoted. She wants Ulster  Bank to refund  the difference  and 
compensate her for the upset it has caused.
The investigator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld.  He said that Ulster  Bank  
hadnt given any advice when it provided  the loan to Mrs K. She had signed the loan 
agreement, which clearly set out all of the key facts, including the interest  rate. Mrs K 
was given 14 days to cancel the agreement  if she wasnt happy with any of the terms.
Mrs K responded to say, in summary, that she assumed  that the rate she was told would 
be on the loan agreement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant know for certain what was discussed between Mrs K and the branch when she 
applied for the personal loan so I have  based my decision on the balance of probabilities  
 in other words,  on what I consider is most likely to have happened  in the light of the 
evidence.
Mrs K is clear  that she was quoted one interest rate for the loan but was charged  a rate 
that was considerably higher. I think it is likely that the bank talked about interest rates  
with Mrs K but I find that the rate of interest  a customer is offered depends on the 
amount being  borrowed, the length  of time the loan is being repaid over and also that 
customers own financial history. 
It isnt disputed that Mrs K applied  for a personal  loan. The bank doesnt provide advice 
when it sells these types of loan. I consider it provided Mrs K with full details of the key 
facts of the loan,  including the amount, term, annual percentage rate (APR) and the 
monthly repayments so that she could make her own decision.
I can see that Mrs K signed a personal  borrowing form on which she confirmed that the 
features and benefits of the loan had been  explained to her. She also signed  the loan 
agreement form. By doing so she confirmed that that she had been  given a copy of the 
personal loan agreement and the general  terms and conditions  for the loan.  Im satisfied 
that the details  of the loan were  clearly set out on the agreement  she signed.  These  
were highlighted in a box and included the amount Mrs K borrowed,  the term of the loan,  
the fixed interest rate, the APR and the amount  and number of the monthly repayments. 
It also gave Mrs K a 14 day cancellation  period so that she could cancel the loan if she 
wasnt happy with any aspect of it.
Ref: DRN43864122I appreciate that Mrs K will be disappointed  but, for the reasons I have explained, Im not 
persuaded that the loan agreement  was misleading  or that the loan was mis-sold by 
Ulster Bank. If Mrs K wasnt happy  with the rate she was given she had 14 days in which  
to cancel the loan.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4386412