K820x#14Complaint
Ms W complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) sold her debt to a third party  
without telling her. 
Background
Ms W has told us she took out a £30,000 loan with RBS but after maintaining  the payments 
she experienced some financial difficulties. RBS defaulted the account in 2014  and Ms W 
went on to agree repayments  of £410  a month.  
Ms W maintained her payments but earlier this year RBS decided to sell the debt to a 
different business.  Ms W complained and RBS responded  on 6 March  2019 but didnt agree 
it had made  a mistake. RBS said it had taken  the decision to sell the debt and didnt have to 
provide a warning. 
As Ms W remained  unhappy, she referred  her complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked at what  had happened  but didnt uphold Ms Ws complaint. He said that RBS was 
allowed to sell the debt.  Ms W didnt feel the investigators view was fair. 
As Ms W didnt agree with the investigator her complaint has been passed to me to make  a 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Ms W has worked hard to reduce the outstanding  balance  from £30,000 to 
around £6,000  via regular  monthly payments. And I appreciate that RBS decision to sell the 
debt to a third party has caused  Ms W some concern. But I havent seen anything to show 
RBS has made a mistake  or treated Ms W unfairly  by taking that decision. 
Ive looked at the terms governing the loan and they give the following information: 
Transferring rights or obligations under this agreement
We may transfer our rights or responsibilities  under this agreement to another  person or 
organisation in the future. Well only do this if we believe that youll  be treated to a similar 
standard after the transfer as we treated  you beforehand. 
The terms say that RBS can transfer  its rights (ownership of the debt)  to a third party. Im 
satisfied that RBS has acted in line with the terms by taking the decision to sell the debt. 
The terms also say that RBS will only sell the debt if it believes the new owner will continue  
to treat Ms W in a similar way. Whilst I understand Ms W is concerned  that her debt has 
been sold to a third party,  I havent  seen anything to show shes been  treated any differently 
by the new owners.  I understand  Ms Ws continued  to make her loan payments. RBS says 
that if it receives any loan payments it will forward them to the new owner. 
As the loan and Ms Ws repayments will most  likely continue as they have in recent years 
and her loan terms allow  RBS to sell the debt to a third party I havent been persuaded to 
Ref: DRN44751182uphold this complaint.  Ms W isnt disadvantaged  by RBS decision and she hasnt  lost out 
financially. I wouldnt expect RBS to notify  Ms W in advance  of its decision and theres 
nothing in the terms that says it has to take that step. I understand Ms W wants  to finish  
making her repayments to RBS, but I think  it has dealt with her complaint fairly  so Im not 
telling it to take any further action or retrieve the debt from the third party.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4475118