K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs V complain  that MBNA Limited rejected their section 75 claim when  they 
complained about goods  theyd purchased from a third party supplier.
background 
In October  2016 Mr and Mrs V placed an order for bedroom furniture with a third party 
supplier and paid a deposit  of £2,259.39  with a MBNA credit card.
After the initial plans were  drawn  up but before a site survey was completed,  Mr V decided to 
cancel the contract  on the grounds that the goods  offered by the supplier were not fully 
bespoke. Mr V said he had discovered,  after entering into the contract, that template doors 
and carcasses were used.  Mr V cancelled the contract  in August 2017, approximately 10 
months after placing the order and paying  the deposit.
Mr V asked the supplier  to return his deposit but it refused a full refund on the grounds that it 
had already incurred design costs. It refunded £868.14.
Having been unable to obtain a full refund from the supplier, Mr V complained  to MBNA and 
claimed the difference under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.
MBNA rejected the claim. It said it hadnt been provided with evidence to show  that the 
furniture Mr V agreed to purchase was totally bespoke. Mr V complained  to this service.
Our investigator said that there hadnt  been a breach of contract  or a misrepresentation in 
relation to the furniture. But she said the supplier  hadnt  applied its cancellation terms 
correctly and recommended that MBNA  refunded the remainder of the deposit.
MBNA didnt  agree.  It said there  had been  no breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier and therefore it couldnt  be liable  under  section 75. It also said that clause 8 of the 
suppliers terms  and conditions stated that the deposit would be refundable of the contract 
was cancelled within the cancellation period, and that it was implicit from clause 8 that 
refunds would not be given outside  of the cancellation period.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 75 Mr V has a like claim against MBNA as he does against the supplier for 
breach of contract and/or misrepresentation.
For the purposes of section 75, a breach of contract  is where the supplier fails to do what  the 
contract says it must, either expressly  or by implication. A misrepresentation is where the 
supplier makes an untrue statement of fact that causes the consumer to go ahead with the 
contract.
The way in which this service approaches section 75 is to look at what  happened and 
assess whether there are grounds for a successful claim  under section 75. In considering a 
complaint about  a financial services  provider (in this case, MBNA), Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. In deciding whats a fair and 
Ref: DRN48239542reasonable way to resolve Mr Vs complaint  Ive taken  section  75 into account.  But that 
doesnt mean Im obliged  to reach  the sane outcome as, for example,  a court might  reach if 
Mr V pursued a claim  for breach of contract  or misrepresentation.
Ive looked at the available information  including the terms  and conditions  of the contract. I 
cant see anything which suggests that the furniture was fully bespoke. Based on this, Im 
unable to say theres  been a breach of contract  or a misrepresentation about the bespoke  
nature of the furniture itself.
Ive also considered whether the refusal to refund all of Mr Vs deposit amounts to a breach 
of contract. In doing so, Ive had regard to the terms and conditions  and in particular the 
clauses which relate to cancellation  and the return of the deposit and/or purchase price.
Clause 8 of the terms and conditions states  that the deposit will be fully refunded  if the 
contract is cancelled within the cancelation period  i.e. 14 days.
MBNA has said it is implicit from this clause that cancellations outside the cancellation 
period wont qualify for a full refund of the deposit.
Ive approached this by looking  at the terms and conditions  as a whole, and not just clauses 
in isolation. Clause 9 deals with cancellation outside  of the cancellation period. It states that 
the supplier will consider  agreeing to allow cancellation but that this will be subject  to 
payment of charges. The charges are outlines  as (a) if the supplier has started 
manufacturing the goods, 50% of the contract  price  and (b) if the supplier has completed 
manufacture of the goods, 75% of the contract  price.
I think its implicit from clause 9 that cancellation  outside of the cancellation  period  is 
allowed. Further, that charges can only be deducted  if manufacture  of the goods  has started. 
It follows that if a customer cancels outside  of the cancellation period but before the supplier 
has started to manufacture the goods, no charges  would be deductible from the contract  
price (which would include any deposit  paid). This means that a full refund  should be given 
without deduction  of any charges.
The supplier  in this case has admitted  that it hadnt started manufacturing the goods  at the 
point when Mr V cancelled the contract. On that basis, the effect of clause 9 is that a full 
refund should  be given.
Clause 9 doesnt make reference to any head  office or design costs,  nor can I find reference 
to these in any other  of the terms and conditions.  So whilst its possible that some design 
costs were incurred, theres  no contractual basis to recover these.
The fact that the supplier  has sought to deduct  design costs from Mr Vs deposit amounts to 
a breach of contract,  because there  is no provision  in the terms and conditions  which  allows 
these costs to be deducted.
Im therefore  satisfied that the supplier is in breach of contract because it has deducted  costs  
which it wasnt permitted to do. This means that MBNA is liable under section 75.
 
Ref: DRN48239543my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  MBNA Limited  should refund  the balance  of 
the deposit paid by Mr V and pay simple interest  at 8% per year on the amount refunded 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4823954