K822xcomplaint
Ms H complains, through  her mother Mrs F, that HSBC UK Bank Plc allowed her ex-
husband to apply for a remortgage on their jointly owned property without her consent. 
background 
Mr and Ms H are divorced.  Following a Court Order  Mr H vacated  the family home. Ms H 
realised from documentation she obtained  that Mr H was attempting  to obtain a mortgage on 
this property or to transfer it into his sole name. On 18 December  2017,  Ms H called in her 
local branch to express her concern that her husband was applying  for a mortgage  in his 
sole name and that she hadnt given her consent to that. On 4 January 2018 Ms H wrote to 
HSBC asking it to confirm in writing  that it held no paperwork purporting to be signed by her 
in relation to any mortgage application  but HSBC didnt respond.
It seems  that Ms H then contacted the police and HSBC again.  HSBC did respond  this time 
to say that if there were mortgage documents for Ms H to sign that they would  be sent to Ms 
H or her solicitor.  Ms Hs solicitor wrote to HSBC on 21 March 2018  asking whether any 
paperwork in relation to the mortgage was submitted  to HSBC purportedly signed  by Ms H. 
HSBC didnt respond to that letter. 
In December 2018 Mrs F wrote to HSBC asking for details of its investigation into Mr H trying  
to obtain a mortgage on the joint property. On 31 January 2019 HSBC  replied that any 
application to transfer the deeds of Ms Hs property would require her consent. HSBC  
credited Ms Hs account with £50 because of the delay in responding to her complaint. 
Our investigator confirmed that HSBC would get Ms Hs consent to any changes to the 
mortgage. So, she didnt  believe  that HSBC had done  anything wrong and didnt  believe that 
the complaint  should be upheld. Ms H disagreed and asked for a review. As a result of that 
review I issued a provisional decision.
my provisional findings
I noted that Mr and Ms H were involved in a divorce and in late 2017, Mr H made  an 
application for a transfer of equity and Ms H came to believe that her signature through 
some fraud was on that application.
I said that I wasnt sure how this belief arose but after reviewing the correspondence  I said 
that I didnt  think  it came  from HSBC. But I accepted that Ms H believed  it and may have had 
other reasons to be concerned about  Mr Hs behaviour. I went through  the correspondence  
and noted that HSBC  didnt respond  to Ms Hs letter in January  which  asked the bank to 
confirm if they held any paperwork purported to be signed by her in relation to any mortgage 
application made by Mr H. So, I said that Ms H went into the branch in February 2018 and 
expressed her concerns  as recorded  on the contact notes that her husband is trying to 
apply for a mortgage, forge her signature and get her out of the family home.  I noted  that 
Ms H, because of her suspicions of fraud, made contact  with her local police station and with 
Action Fraud 
I said that after  Ms Hs visit to the branch,  HSBC  then wrote to Ms H on 12 March 2018 to 
give her the comfort that if there  was any attempt to transfer the mortgage or property that 
the documents would  be sent to her or her solicitor first. But I noted that this didnt  deal with 
Ms Hs concerns about a fraudulent signature  so her solicitor wrote  on 21 March 2018 to 
Ref: DRN47165832HSBC. This letter said that However there is some suggestion by yourselves that fraud may 
have been committed.  So, I said that Ms Hs solicitor asked HSBC to answer the specific 
query whether there was any signature  purportedly signed by Ms H on a mortgage  
application. But I noted that HSBC  didnt reply to that letter.
I had asked HSBC  why it hadnt responded and it said that it thought  it had dealt with the 
substance of the letter in its reply of 12 March.  Then  in November 2018 it sent out a 
redemption statement to Mr H which Ms H had access to. Mrs F wrote to HSBC on 1 
December 2018  and HSBC responded on 31 January 2019 again confirming that that there 
are safeguards in place  to ensure that Mr H will not be able to transfer the property without 
Ms Hs knowledge.
After a detailed  examination I said I believed that there was no fraudulent signature and I 
noted that HSBC  had taken the position that it was enough to provide comfort  to Ms H that 
nothing can happen  to her property without  her or her solicitor getting  any relevant 
document. But I believed that in this situation that HSBC could have gone further and I noted 
a number of opportunities that HSBC  had to put the suspicion of a fraudulent signature to 
rest but didnt. This meant that Ms H contacted  the police and Action Fraud.
I said that I believed  that this was unfortunate as the failure to address head-on the 
fraudulent signature  issue may well have fuelled the suspicion that there was some  truth to 
it. So my view was that Ms H and her solicitor required a proper response  to the question 
they raised and HSBCs failures to do so could only have been described as poor customer  
service. So I said that my intention was to uphold this complaint and indicated my intention 
to award compensation of £400.  I invited Ms H and HSBC  to respond to my provisional  
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC responded  to say that it agreed with my decision. Mrs F replied to say in summary 
that Ms H was the subject of a number  of devious actions and harassment by Mr H and that 
Ms H had the worry of losing her home. Mrs F asked for further compensation to reflect this. 
I have considered that but I have to separate and deal with what HSBCs responsibility  is. As 
I said before  I believe that it could  have dealt with the matter better and dealt head-on with 
Ms Hs concerns. But clearly HSBC  is not the primary source  of Ms Hs concerns  and my 
award of compensation should  reflect that. 
HSBC wasnt the author of the allegation  of the fraudulent signature. But HSBC  should have 
properly dealt with it when raised by Ms H but didnt. This meant  that Ms H thought she had 
to contact the police and Action Fraud and spend time on that. Ms H would have been upset 
believing that her signature  had been forged and that HSBC could have remedied that. In 
those circumstances  I uphold this complaint and believe  that an award of £400 as suggested  
in my provisional decision is appropriate.  This should include the £50 that HSBC  paid for its 
delay in replying  to Ms H. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Ms H £400 
less £50 already  paid.
Ref: DRN47165833Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4716583