K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  attached to a credit card 
taken out in 2001. Mrs J says Bank  of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her PPI. 
background
The policy and credit card were taken out at the same time. Bank of Scotland  has stated that 
this followed a bank  branch meeting, whereas Mrs J has said that the PPI sale was 
conducted over the telephone.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
Mrs J disagreed with these findings. She has reiterated that the sale was over the telephone, 
not in a meeting. Mrs J has said that she was then told to attend a bank branch where she 
would need to sign paperwork.  This was pre-printed, and she was told where to sign it.
Mrs J considers that the PPI was disguised from her. She has also said that she is unhappy 
about the way in which she was asked to provide details about  her circumstances relating to 
more than 15 years ago when Bank of Scotland investigated her mis-sale  complaint. 
Mrs Js representative has questioned why the adjudicator concluded that Mrs J was aware 
that PPI had been added to her credit  card, taking into account what she herself has said 
about the sale. The representative has commented  that in many cases, consumers were not 
made aware  that PPI had been  attached  to credit they had taken.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 In my view it is more  likely  than not that Halifax made  it clear  that Mrs J didnt have to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out. I have carefully  considered Mrs Js 
comments about the way in which the policy was added to her credit card.  However, I 
am mindful that the sale occurred a number of years  ago, in my opinion making it more 
difficult to recall  in detail.
Mrs Js recollections  are that the sale itself was arranged over the phone, and she was 
then made to attend a branch to sign the forms.  She has also said that she was only told 
where to sign the form when she went to the branch.
The credit  card application form that Mrs J signed  included a box to select  PPI. This box 
had a cross in it. I cannot be sure exactly what was discussed between Mrs J and the 
adviser when she went  to the branch.  However,  on the balance of probabilities,  taking 
into account that the PPI was selected on the form, it seems  likely to me that a 
discussion did take place about  this insurance cover  before it was added to the credit  
card. As the form required the PPI box to be marked in order for the policy to be 
arranged, I consider this indicated that PPI was an optional  product. With the PPI box 
Ref: DRN49711552having a cross in it, on the weight of evidence provided, my conclusion  is that Mrs J did 
agree to take PPI out.
 Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs J so it had to check  that it was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the main exclusions  to or limits on the PPI 
cover. Taking into account her circumstances when sold the policy,  I consider that 
Mrs J would have found the cover  useful for meeting her card repayments in the event 
that she was not working.  
 Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. It also looks like it was affordable. On balance I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put Mrs J off taking  out the cover. 
I note Mrs Js representatives  comments about the way in which  it considers PPI was often 
added to credit taken out by consumers. However,  I have  based my assessment of this case  
on the evidence  that has been provided  relating to this sale.  Mrs J is also unhappy about the 
questions that were asked  of her by Bank of Scotland when it investigated her complaint. But 
in my view,  it was reasonable for the business to request the information  about Mrs Js 
circumstances that it did in order to assess the PPI sale.  Although  I appreciate that Mrs J will 
be disappointed  with my findings,  my conclusion is that the policy was not mis-sold to her.
Therefore Bank of Scotland  doesnt need to refund everything Mrs J paid for the PPI. But 
Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Mrs J back some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont 
think it needs to do anything more. 
I understand Bank of Scotland has already paid this to Mrs J.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4971155