K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Starling Bank  Limited  has unfairly blocked his bank account.  He wants  
to regain access to his funds.
background
Mr D said he transferred  the balance of another account to his Starling business bank 
account and closed his other account,  but since his account has been frozen and Starling is 
ignoring him, or giving him differing  information. Mr D said this is damaging  his business.
Starling said Mr D transferred a large sum of money  to his new account. Starling reviewed 
Mr Ds account and placed a block on it preventing further transactions. It said it acted under 
the terms and conditions of the account  and in accordance with its regulatory 
responsibilities. 
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said Starling can review 
accounts at any time and had met its legal  and regulatory obligations. He said banks dont 
have to provide  any notice or explanation, and so Starling hasnt done anything  wrong.
Mr D said the situation is very unfair, and said that the banks are stealing from people.  Mr 
Ds representative said that his transactions were  legitimate and set out court cases  in 
support of Mr Ds position. He requested  that an ombudsman review Mr Ds complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely  at the decisions  and handling of Mr Ds account by Starling to see if it has 
acted in accordance  with the terms and conditions of the account  and its regulatory  
obligations, and to see if it has treated him fairly.
Banks are required to follow legal and regulatory obligations. These include the review  of 
customers accounts, and where they feel it appropriate, to block  and close  accounts. From 
what I have seen Starling  has correctly followed its obligations and acted within  the terms 
and conditions of Mr Ds account in deciding to block his account. 
Although it is frustrating to Mr D, banks are allowed to close accounts without giving their 
customers a reason for their decision,  and our service cannot  require  them to do so. I can 
understand the problems that the lack of access to his funds has caused  Mr Ds business,  
but from what Ive seen Starling is entitled  under its terms and conditions and regulatory 
responsibilities to take this step and I think it has acted  reasonably.
I havent found that Starling has caused unnecessary delays  or given  Mr D poor service in its 
handling of his account. In conclusion, I am satisfied that Starling has treated Mr D fairly  in 
blocking his account  and preventing him from accessing his funds and I cannot uphold his 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Ref: DRN47708102Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4770810