K821x#15complaint
Mr T says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a store card in January 
1995. Mr T applied for the PPI in store  when  he was shopping.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint because they didnt think FICL gave Mr T clear enough 
information about the fact the policy didnt cover  pre-existing medical conditions. And he said 
this wouldve  been important to Mr T because if hed known about the exclusions he wouldnt 
have bought the policy.
FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts case. Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
I dont think FICL gave Mr T clear  enough information about  the policy.  I say this because  
the policy didnt  cover pre-existing medical  conditions. I think  this wouldve mattered  to Mr T 
because he suffered from a medical condition, and had done  so from childhood. And he told 
us he was on regular  medication because of it and had regular medical consultations as 
well. 
As a pre-existing medical condition, this wouldnt have been covered by the policy at the 
time of sale and this shouldve  been highlighted to him. And if it had been, I dont think he 
wouldve bought  the policy. I think he wouldve seen no value in the policy if he thought that 
the most  likely reason  for having to claim on it would likely  have resulted in his claim being 
turned down. So, I think Mr T has lost out because of what  FICL  did wrong. 
putting things right
FICL should put Mr T in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy  
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and FICL should:
A.find out how much Mr T would owe on his store  card if the policy  hadnt  been added to 
it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr T owes  and what he would 
have owed.
Ref: DRN45620662If Mr T made  a successful  claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when FICL works out what  Mr T would have owed each month without PPI  Mr T 
paid more than enough to clear  his balance, FICL should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr T paid.  And it should  carry on paying interest  until the point  when Mr T would 
have owed  FICL something  on his store card. The interest  rate should be 8% a year. 
C.FICL should  tell Mr T what it has done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ts complaint. Financial Insurance  Company 
Limited should put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4562066