K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them  a payment protection insurance (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs W bought the policy in 2008  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.   
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs W for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. The policy was set up to provide Mr and Mrs W a 
50% benefit spilt, and it offered to repay  benefit  of £365.53 a month towards Mr and Mrs Ws 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £18.65 a month. 
At the time,  Mr W says he was employed as a baker. He has told us he was entitled to 
redundancy pay and a death in service  benefit. Looking at the documents  from the time of 
sale it also looks like Mr W wouldve been  entitled  to sick pay for eight  weeks  from his 
employer at the time.  Lloyds has provided us with information from the time of sale which  
suggests Mr W may have been classed  as self-employed, and this is something I will 
address later in the decision. Mr W has also said he had savings that he couldve relied on. 
The information from the time of sale shows that Mr W told Lloyds he didnt have any health  
problems. But when  his complaint was made  to Lloyds, he said he was taking medication to 
control his blood  pressure. In his complaint to our service Mr W has said he had experienced 
multiple health conditions before the sale of the PPI. Ive considered  all of this information 
and will address it later in my decision.   
Mrs W was employed  as a store manager.  She has told us she was entitled  to redundancy 
pay and a death in benefit payment. Mrs W has also told us she had some  savings.  The 
information from the time of sale shows that Mrs W told Lloyds she didnt have any health 
problems. In her complaint to our service  Mrs W has said she had experienced multiple 
health conditions  before the sale of the PPI. As explained above,  Ive considered all this 
information and will address it later in my decision. 
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ws representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs W 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ws representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN41726812claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs W about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs W and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs W received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr W and Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2008 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Ref: DRN41726813Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
key questions
Ref: DRN41726814Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs W with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs W, I must then go on to consider  whether  and to what  extent  Mr and Mrs W 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs W 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs W know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
The policy seems to have  been arranged during a meeting. I cant say for certain what the 
discussions between Mr and Mrs W and the adviser  involved. But Lloyds has been able to 
provide some paperwork that was completed at the time. I have considered this paperwork 
alongside Mr and Mrs Ws comments and what we know  in general about how this type of 
MPPI was sold. 
Lloyds has provided  the separate PPI application form that was completed at the time.  
This application is entirely separate to the application for the mortgage and indicates Mr and 
Mrs W answered detailed questions about  their circumstances before the PPI policy  was 
sold to them.  This form clearly sets out the cover  provided and that it would be paid by a 
monthly premium. This form has also been  signed by Mr and Mrs W, and I wouldve 
expected them to query anything within it before  doing  so. 
I can also see that there is a separate demands and needs statement. This statement 
contains further details about Mr and Mrs Ws needs at the time and indicates  that PPI has 
been recommended. The statement suggests  a discussion took place about the PPI with the 
adviser and Mr and Mrs W were  given a choice about what  recommendations to accept. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs W knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Ref: DRN41726815Lloyds says it advised Mr and Mrs W to take out the PPI. Mr and Mrs W say they cant 
remember if advice was given to them. Looking at the information we have from the point of 
sale I think Lloyds did advise Mr and Mrs W to take out the PPI. I say this because the 
paperwork shows that the adviser completed a demands and needs  assessment for Mr and 
Mrs W and this was followed by recommendations which he made based on their individual 
circumstances at the time. 
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs W with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs W. The adviser had information  about some of Mr and Mrs Ws financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  a demands and needs 
statement was completed to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs W had a need for the 
policy  by asking  questions about their wider circumstances such  as any health issues  and 
existing means  I dont  think  it did enough  to ensure the PPI was suitable. I say this 
because although  the demands and needs  assessment  carried  out by the adviser  shows Mr 
and Mrs Ws health was discussed, I dont think the assessment went  far enough in 
considering their other means. Although it seems sick pay was considered, there  isnt any 
evidence to show the discussion covered their savings or redundancy pay. These aspects of 
Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances  should also have been considered  when the adviser was 
making his recommendation.  
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs W given  their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs W, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs W met the eligibility  criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs W had a need  for the policy  it seems likely  that Mr and Mrs Ws ability 
to continue to meet their mortgage  repayments  would have been  put under strain  if 
Mr and Mrs W were not working  for an extended period of time  even allowing for 
their redundancy benefits, sick pay and savings they say they would have  been  
entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs W. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs W. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Ws employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  As Ive explained above, the information from 
the point of sale indicates that Mr W may have been self employed  at the time he 
applied for the mortgage and PPI. Ive looked  at the policy  terms and if he was, I still 
think the policy wouldve been suitable  for him. I say this because  the requirements 
to make a claim under the policy if you owned your own business or were  self 
employed dont  seem  unduly  difficult to meet. 
Ref: DRN41726816-As I have explained above, the information we have about  Mr and Mrs Ws health  at 
the time of sale is conflicting. I have looked at the paperwork from the time of sale 
and it shows that the questions  the adviser  asked  about  their health were  clear. The 
adviser based his recommendation  on what he was told by Mr and Mrs W.  So  Ive 
gone on to consider  the conditions Mr and Mrs W have now told us about  But I still 
think the policy was suitable for them, even in light of these conditions.  I say this 
because Mr and Mrs W had some of the conditions many years  before the date of 
sale and they didnt seem to have a lasting impact on their ability to work. Some  of 
them were also conditions that affected them on one occasion and were treated and 
it doesnt seem they were  recurring.  Mr and Mrs W have also said they suffered from 
back problems and stress. Looking at the policy terms  there  were  no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability, unemployment or accident  it still provided useful  cover  given Mr and 
Mrs Ws circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W were  given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr and Mrs W were unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs W 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly cost,  benefit  or about the exclusions or limitations 
before Mr and Mrs W agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs W Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs W of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ws. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN41726817-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ws representative  considers  to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ws representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs W have suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs W? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs W suffer  loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs 
W. So I have gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr 
and Mrs W suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether or 
not Mr and Mrs W would have still taken  out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs W, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.  
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs W have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs W would have acted differently,  or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs W say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs W had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
Ref: DRN41726818As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W knew  they would  have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr and Mrs W applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely would have been told 
the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy  for a number of years,  so if the 
costs were significantly at odds with their expectations at the point  of sale, its possible they 
might have raised that with Lloyds at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs W would have found  the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs W would get back 
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ws 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than they would have expected as there was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs W thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mr and 
Mrs W knew about or ought to have  known about before the start date of the policy  or 
for which they had consulted a doctor  about in the 12 months  immediately before 
taking their policy out. This also included any condition  which  occurs again  in the 24 
months after they took the policy out. However,  the policy may accept a claim if Mr 
and Mrs W were symptom free and had not consulted a doctor  or received treatment 
for the condition for a full 24 months  prior to your claim.  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs W werent permanent  employees;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs W pause for thought  and may well have caused  them  to conclude  the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs W from taking out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. Mr and Mrs W say they had suffered 
from various medical conditions in the years before the PPI was taken out, and the policy 
may not have provided cover had they needed time off work  because of these conditions.  
But I dont think better  information about the policys limitations would have put them  off 
agreeing to it. I say this because some of the conditions were experienced by Mr and Mrs W 
many years before the policy start date. And some of them had been treated at the time and 
didnt seem to be recurring for Mr and Mrs W. 
Ref: DRN41726819And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  they wouldve been caught  by any of the other  
significant exclusions. So I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs W would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr and Mrs W appear to have simply needed a doctors 
certificate. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what  they would have expected  to 
make a claim. 
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs W that any claim they made would be limited to a 12 
month. This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Mr and Mrs W would have received benefits for from their 
respective employers.  
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs W would still have thought a policy  
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr or Mrs W be unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and helped  ensure their 
home was not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve Mr and Mrs Ws employer 
benefits or savings  for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs W would  still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable  for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr and Mrs W were  made  
redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not Mr and Mrs W would have  taken  out the policy in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ws representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs W would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ws 
Ref: DRN417268110circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs W found themselves as a result  of the sale was the same  position they would have been  
in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred.  
Mr and Mrs W believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs W in the position  they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs W compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs W think Lloyds misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs W, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2008  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ws representative says a court might take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs W and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs W in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 January 2021.  
Chandni Green
Ref: DRN417268111ombudsman
Ref: DRN4172681