K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs B. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2001 to cover  a store card account. Mrs B 
was sold the policy by phone, about  three years after the card account started.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  FICL disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. When I looked at the case, I 
reached a different view. So I sent out a provisional  decision and asked  for comments.  I 
said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
The adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld. This was because  Mrs B 
suffered from a long-term medical condition. The adjudicator  said FICL hadnt 
pointed out clearly enough  to Mrs B that she wouldnt be able to make  a claim 
resulting from that illness
But Ive reached  a different view. I agree its likely FICL didnt give Mrs B enough  
information about limits on claiming  for existing  medical conditions.  But Mrs B has 
said the condition  had been diagnosed almost ten years before she took out the PPI, 
and it was under control with regular medication  and had never caused her to take 
time off work. So I dont  think, even if FICL had given her proper information, it would 
have put Mrs B off taking  PPI. So I dont think shes lost out by the likely poor level of 
information. 
Ive also looked  at other possible  reasons why the PPI might have been mis-sold. 
But, from what Ive seen,  I dont  think they apply to this case:
 Mrs B has said she wasnt aware  of the PPI being added. Ive seen from her 
application form for the store card that she didnt ask for PPI at that stage. But 
FICLs records  say that the PPI was sold by phone  some  years after the 
account started,  and I think thats  likely to be right. There  is no recording 
available of that call  which isnt surprising as this happened  over 17 years 
ago. And, given the length of time that has passed, it also wouldnt be 
surprising if Mrs B might not remember the detail of everything  that happened.
But, as she already had the card, Mrs B would have  known she didnt have  to 
have the PPI to get the credit. From  what we know about  how FICL  usually  sold 
PPI by phone at that time,  I think its representative  would have  anyway been  
told to make clear it was optional and to get the customers consent before 
adding it to the account. And Mrs B hasnt told me anything to make me think 
FICL didnt follow its usual process with her. So based  on what Ive read and 
Ref: DRN46941992been told so far, I cant fairly conclude that FICL  did something wrong in the 
way the PPI was added to the account.  
 Ive seen nothing  to show me that FICL recommended the PPI as being 
particularly suitable for Mrs Bs individual needs. This means it didnt have to 
check if the PPI fitted her circumstances.  It would  have been  for Mrs B to 
decide whether  it was suitable.
 However FICL did need  to give Mrs B clear  and fair information, including  about  
the costs of, and limitations in, the policy. This was so she could make an 
informed choice.  And I cant be sure that it did this properly.  So Ive thought 
about whether  better information  is likely to have made a difference. But in 
Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, even if shed been given all the necessary 
information, I dont  think its likely  to have made a difference to whether she 
took PPI. I say this because its likely  that the PPI could have paid out for much 
longer than her full employer sick pay lasted. It would have left her limited  
savings intact for the future. And it would have been in addition to any employer 
sick pay or redundancy pay. So the PPI is likely still to have  seemed  potentially 
useful. Also it doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of the 
significant exclusions in the policy, in a way that would have put her off taking 
the PPI. 
So on balance, based on the information  Ive got at the moment  I dont think  I can 
fairly and reasonably uphold this complaint.
I didnt receive any comments in response to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding  this complaint, for the reasons  given above. 
my final decision
I am not upholding  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4694199