K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that he was mis-sold  a mortgage payment protection  insurance  (MPPI)  
policy by Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax).
background
A monthly  premium MPPI policy was added  to Mr Gs mortgage account  in  1991, to protect 
his mortgage repayments against accident,  sickness or unemployment. He was covered 
under the policy  for up to 24 months  per successful claim for accident and sickness. He was 
also covered for unemployment, for up to 12 months per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Gs complaint.  He didnt agree. He said he didnt  needed 
MPPI because he had adequate means to make his repayments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Gs case. As some of the evidence is either 
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  based on whats available. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland no longer has a copy of Mr Gs paperwork  from the time of sale.  Banks 
often only keep records for six years. The bank cant say now exactly how the policy was 
sold to Mr G, but have treated it as an advised  branch  sale.  Mr G says he thinks  he took 
MPPI out at a meeting  and the policy was recommended to him. He may be right about that. 
I have proceeded  on that basis. That means Halifax had the additional responsibility of 
deciding whether the policy was suitable  for him and giving him clear information so he could 
decide if he wanted to buy it. It also had to point out that MPPI was optional and Mr G didnt 
have to take it.
Based on the very limited  information now available, I havent seen enough to make  me 
think the optional  nature of the policy wasnt made clear to Mr G. So, I think  it more likely that 
MPPI was added because  Mr G said he wanted  it.
Halifax no longer  has a copy of the terms and conditions of the policy from the time of sale.  
So, Ive taken into account what weve learnt  from dealing with other Halifax  case about the 
terms and conditions that are likely to have applied  at the time.
I cant see that the policy looked  unsuitable for Mr G. I say this because:
Mr G appeared eligible to take out the policy; 
he said he wouldve got sick pay through his work, six months worth at full pay and 
six months at half. The policy  likely wouldve paid out on top of Mr Gs work benefits 
and potentially for longer than Mr Gs sick pay wouldve covered him for. So I think 
MPPI  wouldve been of use to him. It wouldve provided him with valuable 
Ref: DRN45097132assurance, to protect his home. It wouldve also allowed him to use his work benefits 
to meet  other household  expenditure. 
I cant see that the policy was unaffordable  and he couldve cancelled  the monthly 
premium at any time without losing  out financially. 
Mr G hasnt provided information to show that he was affected  by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover. So, I dont think having better  information  about these 
things wouldve changed his decision to buy MPPI as he couldve benefitted from 
everything the policy offered.
I cant be sure that Mr G was given all the information about the policy he shouldve  been 
when he bought it. But, I think he wouldve understood he had to pay something for MPPI 
and I cant see that he wouldve  done  anything different and decided against  having  the 
policy with clearer information.  I say this because the policy  seemed suitable, competitively  
priced and affordable. 
Even taking  into account any problems with the sale, I think  it unlikely Mr G wouldve made a 
different decision and not bought the policy. So, it follows that I dont think hes lost out 
because of anything  Halifax  did wrong.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4509713