K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that advice from Sesame Limited  (Sesame) to transfer his pension 
benefits to a SIPP and then invest in the Cyprus One Fund  was unsuitable.
background
A number of businesses were involved in Mr Ws transfer and investment.
A fact find was completed  on 1 September 2009 by J Downey Financial Management 
working with McCormick Financial Consultancy  Limited (an appointed representative 
(AR) of Sesame  Limited.
Pension Transfers Limited (an AR of Kingsway Wealth Management  Limited)
wrote to Mr W on 4 September  2009 recommending the transfer.
The SIPP application  dated 10 December 2009 was completed by 
McCormick Financial Consultancy Limited (Sesames AR).
The application for the investment in Cyprus One was submitted on 19 January
2010 by McCormick Overseas Property Limited.
Sesame says it isnt responsible for any losses Mr W has suffered as a result  of the transfer 
and investment. Advice was given by Pension  Transfers Limited. The investment was 
arranged by a company  that wasnt its AR. And its AR wasnt authorised to recommend 
unregulated products.
Mr W referred his complaint to this service. It was considered  by one of our adjudicators who 
issued her opinion  on 27 October 2016.  She did not uphold the complaint. She explained 
that there was not clear  evidence to show the role McCormick Financial Consultancy Ltd 
(Sesames appointed representative)  had in the transfer and investment.
In her opinion the evidence was inconclusive. She said:
Even if McCormick  Financial Consultancy Limited  was involved there  may be arguments
about whether  what was done was within the terms of its appointed representative 
agreement with Sesame.  If it wasnt then it may be that Sesame wont  have accepted  
responsibility for it and so wont  be liable for any losses. I havent looked into this aspect.
That adjudicator left our service. Another adjudicator  reviewed the complaint.  He issued his 
opinion on 18 July 2017. He upheld the complaint. He explained that there was a shared 
liability with Pension  Transfers  Limited,  the business  that issued the recommendation letter 
for the suitability of the transfer  to the SIPP. In conclusion he said:
..without the involvement of your appointed  representative McCormick Financial 
Consultancy Ltd, this transaction could not have proceeded. Therefore, it is my view 
that Sesame does have responsibility  for some of the losses  that have arisen together  
with Pensions Transfers  Ltd who provided  the recommendation report  to transfer.
It is my opinion that the losses in relation to this arrangement should be split 50/50 with 
Pension Transfers as both businesses contributed to the transfer to the SIPP  which 
enabled the investment in the unregulated  investment to proceed. As I have said above 
Ref: DRN40255302if the transfers did not proceed Mr W.. would not have faced the losses  that have 
occurred.
Sesame responded  to the adjudicators opinion on 14 August 2017. In summary  it said:  
The adjudicator had not concluded the issue of jurisdiction. Sesame continued to believe the 
complaint was outside our jurisdiction.
 
The adjudicator subsequently issued  a jurisdiction opinion on 8 September  2017 and 
explained why he felt this service could consider Mr Ws complaint. As Sesame did not 
agree with the adjudicators opinion  the matter was referred to an ombudsman.
An ombudsman issued  a jurisdiction decision on 29 October 2018 which concluded  that 
this service could consider Mr Ws complaint.
Sesame responded.  It did not agree this case falls within  our jurisdiction.
As agreement was not reached the matter  was then referred to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 September 2019. I explained in it that in the 
circumstances of this complaint, it was appropriate to incorporate  both my decision in 
respect of jurisdiction and my provisional decision in respect of the merits of this complaint.
I concluded my provisional decision by inviting both Sesame and Mr W to submit  any further 
evidence and arguments they wished  me to consider before I issued a final decision. I asked 
that any such submissions should be made by 20 October 2019.
In the event, Sesame  and Mr W made no further submissions. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Sesame and Mr W have not made any 
further submissions in response to my provisional  decision. It follows that I am not 
persuaded I should amend or change the conclusions I reached in it.
For completeness, I said in my provisional  decision that:
I have carefully considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide 
both our jurisdiction to consider this complaint  and its likely outcome in respect of its merits.
In other words, I have provisionally  decided a pragmatic approach to this complaint is called 
for in order to bring fair and reasonable certainty as to its possible outcome,  subject  to any 
further submissions.
I therefore intend, unusually, to address both jurisdiction and merits in my provisional  
decision.
In respect of our jurisdiction to consider this complaint, I said in my provisional decision:
jurisdiction
A number of businesses were involved in Mr Ws transfer and investment.
Ref: DRN40255303A fact find was completed  on 1 September 2009 by J Downey Financial Management 
working with McCormick Financial Consultancy  Limited (an appointed representative 
(AR) of Sesame  Limited.
Pension Transfers Limited (an AR of Kingsway Wealth Management  Limited)
wrote to Mr W on 4 September  2009 recommending the transfer.
The SIPP application  dated 10 December 2009 was completed by Mr M of
McCormick Financial Consultancy Limited (Sesames AR).
The application for the investment in Cyprus One was submitted on 19 January
2010 by McCormick Overseas Property Limited.
Sesame says it isnt responsible for any losses Mr W has suffered. Advice was given by 
Pension Transfers Limited. The investment was arranged by a company that wasnt its AR. 
And its AR wasnt authorised to recommend unregulated products.
I agree with my colleague ombudsman that this complaint falls within our jurisdiction. I have 
reached that conclusion for the same reasons as set out in her jurisdiction decision of 29
October 2018. In summary,  she said:
Sesame says that, under  its AR agreement, McCormick Financial Consultancy  
Limited wasnt authorised  to arrange  or advise on UCIS or similar products. So, on 
the basis Sesame  didnt accept responsibility for activities involving UCIS or other 
unregulated products, it cant  be held liable for Mr Ws losses.  It also points to 
Pension Transfers Limiteds responsibility,  when advising  on the transfer, to consider 
the suitability of the underlying investment. Theres also the part played by another  
company - McCormick Overseas Property Limited  in arranging the Cyprus One 
investment.
Ive considered all those factors. But, as the adjudicator pointed  out, Mr M  did complete the 
SIPP application form  his details (in his McCormick Financial Consultancy  Limited  
capacity) were shown at section 6 of the SIPP  of the application  form. He also signed  the 
Confirmation of Verification of Identity  document.
Sesame queried  if it was that application  form that was forwarded  to the SIPP provider. We 
got a copy of the form from the SIPP  provider  and it did include Mr Ms details.
I dont think Sesame  disputes that Mr M was permitted set up a SIPP for Mr W  Sesame 
said (in its response to the adjudicator on 14 August 2017): As an appointed representative 
of Sesame Network, McCormick  Financial Consultancy could have opened
up a SIPP  themselves for a customer  however what is clear  is that they asked another 
entity to open  up the SIPP on their behalf as they knew that they could not give advice on 
the underlying  investment .
So there was a regulated activity (arranging (bringing about) deals in investments  a 
personal pension  is a designated investment) undertaken by Sesames AR for which  
Sesame accepts responsibility. On that basis we can consider a complaint against 
Sesame.
I have noted that Sesame  responded to the jurisdiction decision  on 14 November  2018,  
reiterating that this complaint falls outside  our jurisdiction. But in my provisional view, the 
Ref: DRN40255304matters it raises are relevant to the merits of this complaint  and not to our jurisdiction  to 
consider it. 
Although Sesame cites a prior court ruling  in support of its position,  no two cases are 
identical. In the circumstances of this complaint, I am not persuaded they cause it to fall 
outside our jurisdiction.
In respect of the merits of this complaint, I said in my provisional decision:
merits
Having carefully considered all the available evidence and arguments, I am not persuaded 
this complaint against Sesame should succeed.
I note that Pension  Transfers  Limited advised  Mr W about transferring his personal  pensions 
to a SIPP. It appeared that another adviser, Mr M, from McCormick  Financial Consultancy  
Limited (Sesames AR) may have advised Mr W about the investments.
On that basis Mr W complained to Sesame. But it seems although Mr M was involved, he 
was acting on behalf of McCormick Overseas  Property Limited. That company was not an 
AR of Sesame. So Sesame cannot be held responsible for what it did or any losses Mr W 
had suffered.
The documentation  shows conflicting  information. Although McCormick  Financial 
Consultancy Limited  (Sesames AR) was shown on the SIPP application form as Mr Ws 
adviser, McCormick Overseas Property Limited  asked  for and was paid commission.
On that basis, I am not persuaded there is enough  compelling evidence, even on the 
balance of probability, to show  that Sesame or its AR should  be held to account for the 
transfer and subsequent investment in Cyprus One.
I also note that the agreement  between  Sesame and its AR specifically excluded UCIS 
investments, such as Cyprus One, being  recommended or advised on by its AR. In this case,  
it appears that although its AR ostensibly offered some advice, it was in effect being carried  
out by its AR acting  in a different and unregulated capacity.
I therefore agree with Sesame that: 
.the restrictions placed  by a network  on the business of the Appointed 
Representative, meant that no liability was attached to the network.   the 
employees compliance activities were  directed towards compliance with the ARs  
regulatory obligations as set out in the AR agreement and not to the compliance  
obligations of the network.
Sesame made the further point, with which I provisionally agree,  that as its AR was acting in 
a different capacity to its role as an AR of Sesame, it should not be held to account  for that 
activity. It cited a recent  court ruling  which said:
.the extent that it has relevance  to networks  who expressly forbid  certain 
activities which are then carried out by its Appointed  Representatives who set 
themselves up as a non-regulated entity.
Ref: DRN40255305My provisional decision is that although  Mr Ws complaint against Sesame falls within our
jurisdiction, it should  not succeed on its merits.
In the absence of any further submissions to cause  me to doubt the conclusions I reached in 
my provisional decision as set out above, my final decision reflects the same  conclusions. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2019                                 .
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4025530