K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that a car he financed through CLS Finance  Ltd (CLS) was of 
unsatisfactory quality  and that the early settlement figure he was provided with by them  was 
wrong.
background
Mr F took receipt  of a used car in June 2017. He financed the deal through  a hire purchase 
agreement with CLS. The car was nine years  old at this point.
Mr F says that the car developed mechanical problems shortly afterwards and he asked CLS 
to compensate him for this: sending them pictures  of car parts  to demonstrate  the repairs 
that had been necessary. CLS asked  for receipts but Mr F didnt supply them and hes 
unhappy CLS have refused to reimburse his expenses.
He settled his finance early  but now says that the settlement  quotation he was provided with 
was wrong. But CLS disagreed and Mr F therefore referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  think CLS had done  anything wrong. She didnt think  pictures of car 
parts were  sufficient evidence that Mr F had problems with his car and she thought CLS 
were right to refuse to pay for any repairs without  receipts and evidence  of the work that was 
necessary. She asked  CLS for a copy of their calculations and thought the quotation was 
accurate. She provided a detailed  breakdown.
But Mr F disagreed with her and he asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr F so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr F acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it. 
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then CLS are responsible. The relevant law also says the 
quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory  taking into account  any description of the goods,  the price  and all the 
other relevant circumstances.  
Ref: DRN47741062In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr F. The car here 
was around nine years old.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask CLS to put this right. 
But here theres been little evidence of any fault with the car. Im not persuaded by the 
pictures of car parts as theres no evidence the parts were fitted or removed from Mr Fs car 
or that it was experiencing any problems  that may have been  developing at the point of 
supply. So it wouldnt be reasonable to ask CLS to take any action here and Im not asking 
them to.
the settlement  quotation
Im satisfied that the detail has been presented accurately in the view that our adjudicator  
provided to Mr F and CLS in March 2019.
The adjudicator explained that when the total amount of credit  was added  to the interest,  
noted on the hire purchase agreement, and then the deposit was deducted, the balance  to 
pay was £12,087.36.
She explained that payments of £3,777.30  had been made by Mr F which left £8,310.06 to 
pay on the agreement.
The settlement  quotation  was £5355.24 which, when deducted from the amount remaining to 
pay, represented a rebate of interest of £2,954.82. I cant therefore see that theres  evidence  
Mr F overpaid any interest  and I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask CLS to take 
any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4774106