K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) voided an insurance policy  
he took out to cover  a van hed bought for his business after he made a claim. 
background
Last year Mr T purchased a van that had been modified for use as a mobile coffee shop. He 
took out a van insurance policy with Admiral (trading  as Gladiator) via a price comparison 
website.
As part of the application  process  he was asked Has the van been modified in any way. A 
help box associated with this question says A vehicle is considered modified if it has been  
changed in any way since it was first supplied by the vehicle manufacturer. Mr T said the 
van hadnt been modified.  He was also asked How would you describe the vans body 
type? From the available options which included canteen, hot food dispenser or mobile 
shop Mr T selected van. 
Mr T made a claim two months later following the theft of his van. Admiral looked into this 
and said Mr T hadnt told it that the van had been  modified for use as a coffee shop when he 
took out the policy. And it wouldnt have provided  cover if it had known that. So it cancelled 
the policy from the outset.  Initially it said it wouldnt be refunding the premiums Mr T paid for 
this but it subsequently  did so. 
Our investigator thought that Mr T had been  asked  clear  questions when taking out the 
policy which  he didnt answer correctly. And he was satisfied Admiral wouldnt have provided  
cover if it had known the van had been  modified. So he didnt think  it had done anything  
wrong in voiding  the policy and refunding the premiums Mr T paid for this. 
Mr T didnt  agree. He said he didnt  see the help box when completing the online application 
and thought the question  was about  whether the van had been modified since he purchased  
it. He also said hed answered the question  about the body type of the van correctly. He said 
he didnt receive  the motor proposal  form Admiral sent him following his application. And the 
wording of that form would have  prompted him to declare the modifications  to the van in a 
way the online question didnt. So I need  to reach  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The law that covers issues  relating to consumers and insurance mis-representation is the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). But as Mr T has 
taken out insurance  which  relates to his coffee  shop business that wouldnt apply here.  
However, Mr T is a sole trader and so in the circumstances I think it would be fair to apply 
the principles of CIDRA when looking at whats happened in this case. Doing so means 
Admiral needed  to make sure that Mr T was asked clear questions when taking out the 
policy. And Mr T needed to take reasonable care when answering those questions.  
Ref: DRN48124842In this case Mr T was asked Has the van been  modified in any way. The associated  help 
box explained that meant whether it had been changed in any way since the vehicle was first 
supplied by the manufacturer. And its not in dispute the van had been modified  because it 
had been altered to turn it into a mobile  coffee shop. 
I appreciate Mr T appears to have misunderstood  and thought the question was about  
whether any changes had been made  since he bought the van. But thats  not what  it says. 
And I think if hed been taking reasonable care when completing  this application he would 
have provided  the correct  information. 
Mr T says he didnt  receive the motor proposal  form Admiral  then sent him. And the 
information it contained would have led him to provide more information  about the van. But 
Ive seen a copy  of the motor proposal form which contains his correct contact details. So 
while its really unfortunate he didnt  receive it I dont think thats as a result of something  
Admiral got wrong.  In any case while I appreciate  there is some further information about  
what constitutes a modification in this document I dont think  thats significantly different to 
the information provided when Mr T completed his application. And Ive already concluded 
that would  have been clear to him. 
Admiral has also suggested Mr T didnt correctly answer the question  about the body type of 
the van. And it does seem  to me that there  are other  options  he could have chosen which 
would have better described  the current status  of his van. But I understand his point that the 
option he did choose wasnt in itself wrong.  However, as Ive already concluded Mr T didnt 
take reasonable care when answering the question about modifications to the van I dont 
need to look into this issue further.  
And Admiral says it wouldnt have provided  cover if it had known about the modifications that 
had been made to Mr Ts van. Its provided  information which  satisfies me thats the case.  In 
those circumstances  its entitled to cancel the policy from the outset and refund the premium 
thats been paid for this. I know this has been an extremely upsetting situation for Mr T and 
this decision has significant financial  implications for him. But I cant  say Admiral has done 
anything wrong  here. Im sorry to bring  Mr T what I know will be disappointing  news.  
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4812484