K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Pinnacle  Insurance Plc (Pinnacle) unfairly declined her claim under  
her pet insurance  policy.
background
In December 2018, Mrs B purchased a pet insurance policy which  was underwritten by 
Pinnacle. The policy was taken out to cover her pet dog, whom Ill refer to as D.
A few months later, D fell ill and needed veterinary treatment for vomiting. As a result,
Mrs B submitted a claim under the policy to cover  the cost of the veterinary bills.
Pinnacle declined  Mrs Bs claim on the basis that at the time the policy  was taken out, she 
didnt tell them that D had previously received veterinary treatment for vomiting and 
diarrhoea.
Pinnacle says that had it known about  this, it would have  applied an exclusion from the start 
of the policy  for any claims  involving gastro-intestinal problems  Vomiting and Diarrhoea. 
Its now applied this exclusion  retrospectively  and as a result, considers that Mrs Bs claim is 
not covered under the policy.
Mrs B disagreed with Pinnacles decision to decline her claim and complained  to Pinnacle 
about this. Shes of the view that the treatment D received in January 2018  for vomiting and 
diarrhoea was not related to the treatment claimed  for in February 2019. She also said that 
previous sickness wasnt  related  to a specific condition or illness and therefore  shouldnt be 
excluded under the policy terms. As Pinnacle maintained its decision to decline her claim, 
Mrs B brought her complaint to our service  for an independent review.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Bs complaint. She thought that Pinnacle hadnt acted 
unfairly by applying the policy exclusion and was therefore entitled  to decline Mrs Bs claim 
under the policy  terms.
Mrs B didnt agree with the outcome of the investigators assessment of her complaint. So, 
the complaint  was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in August 2019.  In it I explained that Id considered the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). It sets out the 
respective rights and responsibilities of consumers  and insurers  when entering  into contracts 
of insurance. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable care not to make 
any misrepresentations (i.e. to say something  untrue or misleading), provided the insurer  
has asked clear and specific questions.  If the consumer doesnt  take reasonable care to 
answer the questions  accurately and this adversely  affects the insurers  ability to underwrite 
the proposed  risk, this is treated as a qualifying misrepresentation,  which  may entitle the 
insurer to certain remedies depending on the nature and scope of the misrepresentation, i.e.  
whether its regarded as careless, reckless or deliberate. 
In my provisional decision I explained  that:
Mrs B purchased her policy online in December 2018 and Pinnacle provided our service with 
a copy of a screenshot of the questions it asked Mrs B at the time of sale. This showed that 
Ref: DRN43341822she was asked to consider  a number of assumptions about D, which shed need to edit 
where required.
Looking at the screenshot, I could see that Mrs B was asked to confirm  that the following 
assumption was correct:
Your dog has never  shown any signs of illness or injury. This includes anything  you 
have discussed  with your vet or any other professional about [pet]s health or 
behaviour. Even if there was nothing to be concerned about  or the issue  was 
resolved quickly.
Mrs B was then asked to do the following:
Please tick to confirm  the above assumptions for your pet are correct. If any of this 
information is inaccurate or untrue,  your policy may be cancelled,  applications 
rejected or claims not fully paid.
I was satisfied the question about  the pets health was clear and specific.  I was also satisfied 
that the potential implications  of a wrong answer were made clear at the time of sale. Based  
on what Id seen, I didnt  think  Mrs B answered  the question/assumption accurately. So there 
did appear to have been a misrepresentation.
Pinnacle provided our service with copies of Ds veterinary records.  These showed that D 
was previously treated  for vomiting and diarrhoea. The veterinary records  dated  19 January 
2018 specifically  stated the following:
Reason: V+ And D+
Appointment Notes: mp
Tuesday v+ 2xand  watery D+
D had received treatment  for vomiting  and diarrhoea within only a year of the policy  being  
taken out in December 2018. I was therefore satisfied that Mrs B wouldve been  aware  of 
this at the time she confirmed the assumptions.  So, I thought  Mrs B failed to take reasonable 
care to avoid making a misrepresentation  at the time of sale.
I said I needed to consider  whether  this was a qualifying misrepresentation. In other  words,  
did it induce Pinnacle to enter into a contract  that it would otherwise have avoided,  or enter 
into a contract on less favourable terms from its point of view?
Accordingly, Id considered what  Pinnacle would have done had it known that D had 
previously received veterinary treatment  for vomiting  and diarrhoea.
Pinnacle shared  some  of its underwriting guidance with our service. This showed  that an 
exclusion for Gastro-intestinal Problems  Vomiting and Diarrhoea would have been added  
to Mrs Bs policy until such  time as the policy was due for renewal. Based on the information  
provided, and in the absence of any evidence in rebuttal,  I was satisfied that it was most 
likely that this is what Pinnacle would have done. I was persuaded, therefore,  that its 
underwriting was adversely affected by the non-disclosure of material  information  so there 
was a qualifying  misrepresentation.
I went on to explain that CIDRA allows an insurer to void a policy altogether   i.e. treat it as 
having never existed   if its determined that the qualifying  misrepresentation was either 
Ref: DRN43341823deliberate or reckless:  see section 5 and schedule  1 of CIDRA. But Pinnacle hadnt sought 
to do that, so it was fair to assume  that it only regarded Mrs B as having  been careless in 
completing the application; and I was satisfied thats  a fair and reasonable conclusion in all 
the circumstances.
In relation to careless misrepresentations, CIDRA  says, If the insurer would have entered 
into the consumer  insurance contract, but on different terms... the contract is to be treated as 
if it had been entered  into on those different terms if the insurer so requires. And I said I 
thought that Pinnacle was entitled to apply this exclusion retrospectively.
As a result, Id considered whether Ds treatment in February 2019, falls within  the policy 
exclusion for Gastro-intestinal Problems  Vomiting and Diarrhoea. Looking  at the claim 
form Mrs Bs vet submitted  to Pinnacle in February 2019, I could see her claim was for treat 
for susp gastroenteritis . Ds veterinary records also showed that at the time of the claim, he 
was admitted for vomiting and required  treatment  and further tests. Based on this, I was 
satisfied that Mrs Bs claim had been  fairly declined under the policy exclusion which
Pinnacle is entitled to rely on due to the misrepresentation at proposal.
I explained that Id considered very carefully  what Mrs B and her vet have said about there 
being no link between  the January 2018  and February 2019 treatment, but I didnt think  this 
made a difference to the outcome of Mrs Ds complaint. I said this because Pinnacle hadnt  
declined Mrs Bs claim on the basis that the two incidents were linked. In this case Pinnacle 
had declined  the claim on the basis that it wouldnt have covered  D for any claims linked to 
Gastro-intestinal Problems  Vomiting  and Diarrhoea had Mrs B disclosed the fact that D 
had previously been ill with vomiting and diarrhoea.
I concluded by saying I didnt currently think Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. But I said 
Id consider anything  else anyone wanted to give me before issuing my final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Following the issuing of my provisional decision, both parties confirmed theyd received it. 
And neither Mrs B nor Pinnacle had any new information to add. So Ive reached  the same  
conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision and for the same  reasons.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4334182