K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly refused to pay 
their cancellation  claim  under their travel policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C held their travel policy through their bank account. Unfortunately,  a family 
became ill and Mr and Mrs C cancelled their holiday abroad.  They made a claim for the cost 
of their holiday. UKI asked to obtain  medical  evidence from the doctors  attending the family 
member in order to process  their claim.
The family members GP completed the required  form but crucially said he or she wasnt 
able to answer the question as to whether the family  members medical condition was 
severe enough to warrant  the cancellation of the holiday.
UKI said it did require an answer  to this question before it could  consider  Mr and Mrs Cs 
claim. Mr and Mrs C were  of the view it was sufficient and they were very reluctant to go 
back and ask for more  evidence. They  also said UKIs adviser  said on the call that the 
medical condition  of the family member was very serious. They felt, as it was clear they had 
cancelled their holiday, which was confirmed by their travel agent and that very sadly this 
family member had subsequently  died, UKI should consider and pay their claim.
UKI refused, so Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to us. The investigator didnt think UKI 
request for medical proof was unreasonable as it was clearly  indicated as being  necessary in 
the policy terms and conditions.  
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree so their complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why. 
First, I want to extend my condolences to Mr and Mrs C on the death  of their family  member. 
It was obviously a very sad and distressing time.
My role and the role of this service  is to assess whether UKI did anything wrong and if it did, 
then to ensure  it has done enough to put things rights.  We assess that by ensuring it acted in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions of its policy in its requirements of what it needed 
from Mr and Mrs C in order to progress their claim.  I dont consider UKI did do anything 
wrong as it followed  its terms and conditions. 
This is because, as the investigator outlined in his view, the policy requires claims due to the 
death, illness injury  or quarantine  must be supported by the relevant medical  certificates 
from a doctor, at the policyholders expense.
Sadly, here,  the familys  members GP said he or she was unable to comment  on this 
question:
In your medical opinion,  was the condition sufficiently severe so as to have caused 
our insured  to have  cancelled or cut short their trip?
Ref: DRN45552602So I dont  consider UKI was unreasonable in requesting this question to be answered either 
affirmatively or negatively, as its policy term for payment of cancellation  claims requires it to 
be answered. And if it isnt obviously no claim can progress. UKI has said if Mr and Mrs C 
obtain further clarification  from this doctor, it would be happy  then to consider their claim. I 
also consider that is reasonable.  
UKI, like all other providers, which are regulated by the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA),  
are subject to the rules  and ethos of guidelines  set down by the FCA. These arent  really  
negotiable. One of those  is treating all of their customers  fairly. That in turn means ensuring 
they assess claims in accordance with their terms and conditions across  the board. This is 
what UKI did here and therefore its simply not possible for me to say it has done  anything 
wrong in the processing of Mr and Mrs Cs claim.  
It remains that if the doctor can answer this question in Mr and Mrs Cs favour, UKI will then 
consider their claim.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4555260