K821x#15complaint
Miss T has complained about a personal  loan Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans,  provided to her. She says Everyday Loans  acted  irresponsibly in lending to 
her because of the financial situation she was in at the time.
background
Everyday Loans  provided Miss T with a loan for £2,000  in February 2018. The loan had an 
APR of 199.6% and was to be repaid over two years. This meant that the total interest  
payable on the loan was £2,972.80, the total amount to be repaid  was £4,972.80 and the 
monthly repayments were  £207.20.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Miss Ts complaint and thought that Everyday Loans had 
acted irresponsibly in lending  to her. Everyday Loans disagreed  with our adjudicator, and so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and guidance say that businesses must act responsibly when lending to 
consumers. Businesses must  consider the potential for the lending  to adversely impact  the 
consumers financial situation and the consumers ability to make the repayments as they fall 
due over the life of the agreement.
Businesses must assess whether the consumer could  afford  to meet  the repayments in a 
sustainable manner,  without incurring financial difficulties or significant adverse 
consequences. This means the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to meet the repayments.
As part of its affordability check, Everyday Loans says it carried  out a credit  search  to check 
Miss Ts credit history  and outstanding  debt,  and Ive seen a copy of this. Ive also seen 
copies of Miss Ts bank  statements given  to Everyday Loans and the income and 
expenditure calculations done  as part of the check.
The bank statements confirmed that Miss Ts monthly income was around £1,500.  The 
income and expenditure calculations show Everyday Loans  was told Miss Ts rent was 
around £500 and assumed she would use 35% of her income  to pay for living  expenses. 
And the credit search showed  Miss T was making  repayments towards  around  £800 of debt 
across four credit cards, around £500  of debt on a catalogue account and around  £3,300  of 
older debt.
Everyday Loans  income and expenditure  calculation therefore suggested Miss T would 
have a remaining  monthly disposable income  of around £300 each month, and around £100 
each month  after the payments for this loan were  made.
Ref: DRN40822852But this loan would need to be repaid for two years. And Everyday Loans was required to 
establish whether  Miss T could sustainably make  the repayments,  not just whether the 
repayments were affordable based  on a strict  pounds  and pence  calculation. And the 
calculation left Miss T with a relatively small amount of money for any unexpected expenses 
that might  occur  over the life of the loan.
The bank statements Everyday Loans  had for Miss T also showed a number of significant 
monthly payments  to companies that werent listed on its credit search. They  also showed 
that some  of the payments  being  made to the companies that were  listed  on the credit  
search were  much  larger  than the credit search  said. And the statements  showed that 
Miss Ts monthly  spending was significantly higher than the income and expenditure 
calculation assumed.
As Everyday  Loans had access  to the information on Miss Ts bank statements, I dont think  
it was reasonable  for it to rely solely on the information from the credit search and any 
assumptions about her living expenses. If Everyday Loans had also assessed the 
information on Miss Ts bank statements it should  have  seen  that some of the information 
from the credit search was inaccurate  and that the estimate it had used for living expenses 
wasnt appropriate for Miss T. So I dont think Everyday Loans has acted reasonably  in 
relying on a calculation it should  have  known didnt give an accurate reflections of Miss Ts 
financial situation.
Everyday Loans  also says Miss T wanted the loan in order  to consolidate other  debts. But 
the amount of this loan wasnt enough  to pay off all the debts shown in the credit search. 
And Everyday Loans calculation  showed  that only around £15 of monthly payments towards 
other debts  were being consolidated by this loan. So I dont  think it was reasonable for 
Everyday Loans  to think that taking  on this loan would improve Miss Ts financial  situation. 
And, given  this, I think everyday Loans should have done more  to question whether Miss T 
would be able to make the monthly  payments towards this loan as well as towards the other 
debts she had that werent  consolidated  by this loan.
Miss T had significant debts with other companies that would need to be repaid alongside 
this loan. Everyday  Loans calculation doesnt appear to have accurately taken these  debts 
into account. It showed this loan wouldnt significantly  improve her situation. And it left 
Miss T with a relatively small amount of money for any unexpected expenses. So Im not 
satisfied Everyday Loans adequately considered  whether Miss T could  sustainably  make the 
repayments and so Im not satisfied it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks in 
relation to this loan.
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Ts financial situation at the time, if Everyday Loans had 
carried out reasonable and proportionate  checks, I think it would  have found  it was unlikely 
that Miss T could afford to sustainably  make the repayments. And so it wouldnt have given 
her the loan.
I therefore dont  think Everyday Loans acted  reasonably in providing Miss T with this loan. 
As Miss T ended up paying, and is being expected  to pay, interest and charges  on a loan 
she shouldnt have  been given, I think she has lost out as a result  of what Everyday  Loans  
did wrong.
Ref: DRN40822853putting things right
I understand there may be an outstanding balance on the loan. Everyday  Loans  should 
therefore:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance on the loan, and 
treat any repayments  made by Miss T as thought they had been repayments of the 
principal.
If this results  in Miss T having made overpayments,  Everyday Loans should  refund 
these overpayments  plus 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have been made,  to the date the complaint  is settled.
Remove any adverse  information recorded  on Miss Ts credit  file in relation  to this loan
* HM Revenue & Customs  requires Everyday  Loans to deduct tax from this interest.  Everyday  Loans must give 
Miss T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Miss Ts complaint. Everyday Lending Limited,  trading  
as Everyday Loans, should put things right by doing  what Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4082285