K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about Santander UK Plc (Santander) about fees that were 
deducted from their regular international transfers.  Mr and Mrs P want  the fees refunded and 
their distress  and inconvenience to be recognised.  
background
Mr and Mrs P hold a joint account  with Santander.
Between January 2017 and January  2018, Mr and Mrs P sent 11 transfers  of £300 to a 
relative overseas.  They sent this by international transfer, operated  by Santander. 
Mr and Mrs P were  aware  that Santander usually applied a charge of £25 for each 
international transfer, but as Mr P was a member  of staff, Santander refunded this charge on 
each occasion.  
In early 2018, Mr P visited his relative  and learned  that the amount reaching him was 
approximately £20 less than Mr P expected each time. 
Mr P made enquiries at his relatives bank and was advised that no deductions were made 
at the receiving bank.  
He contacted Santander and spoke to an agent.  He queried the deduction and was told that 
the intermediary bank took a fee and that Santander  had no control over this. The agent told 
Mr P that Santander did not advise customers on international  transfer fees. The agent  
submitted a complaint on Mr Ps behalf. 
Santander sent its final response  shortly afterwards. It did not uphold the complaint and 
repeated that Santander cannot  advise on intermediary fees and how much they will be. 
Mr and Mrs P were  not happy  with this response  and contacted  us. They thought that 
Santander should have told them about  the intermediary fees and that, had they known, they 
would have used  an alternate  service to transfer the money. They  also said hat the agent Mr 
P spoke  to was difficult and rude.  
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties.  This 
was that she did not think  that Santander had done anything wrong as its terms and 
conditions explain that fees may be deducted  by intermediary banks. She had also listened 
to the call and did not think that the agent  had been rude.
Mr and Mrs P were  not happy  with this view and asked for an ombudsman decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs P, and I can imagine that it was upsetting to learn that a 
proportion of each  payment  was deducted by a third party, when they had expected the full 
amount to reach  their relative. They also explained that the amount deducted  represents  a 
lot of money in the destination  country.
Ref: DRN46728202I do, however,  have  to look at whether the business acted reasonably. 
Santanders general terms and conditions include a section  on International Payments. This 
sets out that there may be other  third party  banks  involved  in effecting an international 
payment, and that they might deduct charges. The terms  explain that this could mean  that 
the sum received by the beneficiary  may be less than the amount sent.
I note that Mr P thinks it is insufficient to include this only in the terms and conditions  and not 
to be more explicit to customers. 
In this instance, there has been  no suggestion that Mr and Mrs P made enquiries  with 
Santander about terms relating to their transfer,  or about whether it was the most efficient 
way to send money  to their relative.  
Since there does not appear  to have been any specific advice sought by, or given to, Mr and 
Mrs P and Santander about  their regular transfer,  it is reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs P to 
have looked at Santanders  published information  on transfers, including  the terms and 
conditions, before deciding to set up the transfer.  I would not expect Santander to question  
Mr and Mrs Ps choice  of using the service once they have decided to set up a transfer.
The terms clearly set out that intermediaries may deduct a fee from the amount sent and that 
consequently the amount received may be less than the amount sent. 
I appreciate that Mr P feels that this should have been specifically pointed out to him, but I 
think that from the circumstances described it was sufficient for Santander  to explain in their 
terms that fees may be charged.  I therefore do not think  that Santander has done anything 
wrong in relation to the transfer fees.  
Mr P also said that he had had a difficult conversation with an agent of Santander and that 
he found her rude. I have  listened to the call Mr P referred to and I did not think the agent  
rude. I think  the agent was clear in the information  she gave, and that information  was 
disappointing news for Mr P, which gave  the call a less positive tone, but I did not hear any 
examples of rudeness. I therefore do not uphold this part of the complaint. 
I realise that this decision will be disappointing  to Mr and Mrs P but hope that they are able 
to accept my reasons.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and do not ask 
Santander UK Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4672820