K821x#15complaint
Ms L says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading  as Sunny)  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about twenty-four high-cost short term credit instalment loans that Sunny 
provided to Ms L from April 2015 onwards.  Ms Ls last loan was provided in June 2018. Our 
adjudicator upheld Ms Ls complaint and thought  she shouldnt  have been provided with the 
loans from loan five onwards.  Sunny  didnt  agree  with our adjudicators assessment in full. 
So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Ms L could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Ms L, I think  that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Ms L was unlikely to have been able to make  her payments in a 
sustainable manner  by the time it provided loan 5. 
I say this because  by this stage  Ms L exhibited a borrowing pattern of taking out further 
loans not too long after repaying previous ones. And some of them were even provided 
when Ms L already had an outstanding balance on an existing loan. 
Sunny continued  lending  to Ms L even  when this pattern was repeated and in circumstances 
where it ought reasonably to have realised  that any further loans were more likely than not 
unsustainable for her. 
Ref: DRN48038202putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund all interest  and charges Ms L paid on all loans 5 to 24;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the number of loans  provided means that any information recorded about instalment 
loans 5 to 24 on Ms Ls credit file is likely to be adverse. So all reference  to these loans 
should be removed  from Ms Ls credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms L a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Ls complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Ms L compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4803820