K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  John  Lewis Financial  Services Limited (John  Lewis) made a number of 
mistakes when hed reported  his card had been taken overseas and he requested  a 
replacement in line with the promises advertised by the card scheme.
background
Mr L has a credit card account with John Lewis, the card issuer. Mr L brought  his concerns 
to us as he was unhappy with the response from John Lewis when  he complained about 
what had happened  after he reported his card as retained by an overseas ATM on 21 
September 2018.
John Lewis  apologised  to Mr L for the inconvenience this incident  had caused.  They  said it 
was evident from the various times  theyd  been  in touch that the implication of these errors 
and the delays had a strong impact. John Lewis told Mr L theyd make sure to learn from the 
incident and thanked him for his patience. John Lewis said the error regarding the 
emergency replacement  card from the card scheme was due to an internal error with the 
card scheme's systems and that had been confirmed as part of their internal investigation.
They said the feedback regarding the emergency card being sent to Mr L without  activation  
instructions was standard process  for such an emergency card but Mr L should have been  
told about this when he initially requested the replacement with the emergency phone  line. 
John Lewis  said theyd  sent feedback both internally and to the card scheme.
Our investigator found John Lewis had rectified  the mistakes made  by the card scheme. And 
although she understood that, during the period he was without his card, Mr L had 
experienced stress and a considerable amount of inconvenience, she thought  the £750 
compensation John  Lewis  had paid reasonably  covered that.
Mr L didnt accept the findings; he thought the decision totally unacceptable  and requested 
his case was escalated  to the ombudsman  for the following reasons;
The card scheme  always refused to discuss his complaint directly and hid behind  
John Lewis,
The card scheme  now admitted the emergency cash  option wasnt  offered,
The card scheme  didnt deliver the replacement card as advertised,
Hed accepted  the compensation offered by John Lewis on the basis it would not 
prejudice any claim he subsequently  made against the card scheme as set out John  
Lewiss letter of 6 March 2018.
Mr L also thought  the view failed to mention understanding the gross negligence, 
incompetence, breach of advertising,  loss of business income,  reimbursement of travel 
expenses, upset, and stress and strain. As a consequence he said he was formally claiming 
for £10,000 and expected full consideration for his claim  to be upheld  on the basis of the 
above four points.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the view 
that this isnt a complaint which I can fairly and reasonably uphold.
Ref: DRN44264512Its important to be clear that in this decision Im dealing solely  with Mr Ls complaint about 
John Lewis. Im not dealing with his concerns about  the card scheme.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in the letter 
giving her opinion  so I shant repeat that here.  Indeed, theres not a great deal I can add to 
what the investigators already told Mr L. I think shes covered most points quite clearly.
John Lewis  told Mr L in their final response  letter the card scheme didnt engage  with end-
consumers directly. So it doesnt seem unreasonable to me that John Lewis went  onto tell 
Mr L they were unable to transfer his request for contact to the card scheme directly.
From the records theyve sent Im satisfied John Lewis have accurately explained whats 
gone wrong here with the two aspects of the service Mr L is concerned with  the 
replacement card not being delivered in the advertised time and the failure to offer the option  
of a cash alternative. So, I think, as far as they can, John Lewis have accepted  responsibility  
for the mistakes, explained  how theyve  occurred and apologised.  Theyve  also credited 
Mr Ls account with £750 compensation which Mr L accepted on a specific basis.  I think  
thats a reasonable response  by John Lewis. So Im not going to uphold this complaint and 
dont require John  Lewis to do anything further.
I know Mr L has asked for considerably more compensation than that which  has been paid. 
But I think the payment  is a fair reflection of the inconvenience hes experienced here. And 
its the sort of award Id have made  had it not been offered. Mr L has mentioned incurring 
travel expenses and experiencing a loss of earnings as a result of the failings but Im afraid  
theres nothing in the evidence before me to support that. 
Given how strongly Mr L feels about  what happened  he may want  to pursue the matter 
further through other routes or against other parties.  But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to resolve his dispute with John Lewis informally  can do for him. Im sorry if 
this disappoints  Mr L.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4426451