K821x#15complaint
Mr G is unhappy with his home insurer Aviva  Insurance Limited because its refused to 
accept his claim for further subsidence damage to his property.
background
Mr Gs home  was damaged by subsidence  in 2009. It was declared  stable in 2010. After  a 
few months Mr G noted further  damage. The property  was monitored for a while.  Aviva  
accepted that further damage  had occurred but didnt think the property was still moving. So 
it settled in cash with Mr G so he could fix the cracks  (£158). That was 2014.
Mr G looked to repair the cracks but his contractor  let him down. But, as Mr G was worried  
about further movement, he began to monitor the cracks instead. In 2016 he got back in 
touch with Aviva as he was certain  theyd widened and extended. 
Aviva sent a loss adjuster to Mr Gs home to assess the cracks. The loss adjuster said Mr G 
told it that all of the damage  was new as hed had the previous  cracks fixed. The loss 
adjuster couldnt  see signs  of previous  repair. Aviva  wrote to Mr G and said it wouldnt do 
anything now as it seemed he was claiming for damage that it had already settled for in 
2014. Mr G complained to this service.
Our investigator, having  seen photos of the cracks  from 2014  and 2016  felt the damage had 
got worse. And Avivas loss adjuster accepted this was likely the case. Our investigator said 
this suggested  the property was still moving and Aviva should reasonably re-open the 
previous claim and carry out further  investigations. She said if the claim was settled in cash  it 
could deduct its previous  payment from the settlement, or if it carried out work Mr G would 
need to re-pay  the original  settlement figure to it (which hed said hed be happy to do).
Aviva said that it was satisfied Mr G hadnt  carried out repairs in 2014. It said until Mr G 
proved he had done so, it didnt think it should have  to do anything.  Our investigator  pointed 
out that Mr G had confirmed he hadnt  had work done and that the evidence  showed the 
property was likely still moving. Aviva still wasnt minded to accept our investigators view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the photos of damage from 2014 and 2016. I think  they show  the damage has got 
worse. Further, Avivas  loss adjuster has accepted  that the cracks have increased.  Its also 
referred to the fact that vegetation  (owned  by the local authority), near to the property, that 
was present previously, is still present. Thats sufficient for me to say Aviva reasonably 
needs to look into this matter further. 
When it does that Id expect Aviva  to take into account that this is now the second time 
damage has re-occurred.  Whether or not it determines  such is minor, it seems it needs to 
look carefully at what an appropriate  repair will be. An appropriate repair  is one that is 
effective and long-lasting. Mr G needs to have confidence that he isnt going to see cracks 
re-occurring following any reinstatement work.  
Ref: DRN44895642I cant be sure what Mr G told the loss adjuster when it visited. Its possible some 
misunderstanding occurred. But Mr G is happy  to re-pay  the settlement figure to Aviva  and 
I think thats reasonable. It is clear the cracks have widened and extended  so Im not 
persuaded that if Mr G did initially mislead the loss adjuster about  having carried  out repairs, 
that should reasonably stop Aviva  from completing the claim it started  back  in 2009, and for 
which it sought to relinquish its liability for in 2014  by virtue of making a cash  settlement. 
I would also comment,  even if Mr G had completed repairs in 2014, in light of the ongoing 
movement, its likely  those repairs would have  failed. So Aviva hasnt been disadvantaged 
by them  not being completed.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Aviva Insurance Limited to re-open Mr Gs previous  
subsidence claim and investigate the current damage and/or movement  that is occurring at 
his home  and, taking  into account my points above,  ensure that an appropriate repair  is 
carried out.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4489564