K821x#15complaint
Mr C has made a complaint because  Unum Ltd has accepted a claim on his permanent  
health insurance policy but has assessed  that no benefit is payable. 
background
Mr C is a self-employed restaurateur and has had a permanent health insurance policy for 
around 30 years. The current  policy benefit is limited at £25 213. He says he takes his 
income as drawings from the business, typically drawing around  £4000 per month.
Mr C was diagnosed  with cancer  and made  a claim on the policy. The claim was accepted  
for the period between December 2017  and March 2018. But Unum said no benefit was 
payable because Mr Cs earnings  were negative in the 12 months before his absence  from 
work. Unum acknowledged that the definition  of salary was unclear in Mr Cs policy  but 
explained theyd  applied the current policy definition which says: 
Initial benefit payable  under this policy (excluding  any increase in benefit  payable 
under condition 11) together  with benefit payable under  any sickness or accident 
policies in respect of the insured (excepting  policies under  which the maximum 
period of benefit does not exceed 2 years) and any early retirement pension received 
in the event of incapacity  shall not exceed one half of earnings in the year prior to 
incapacity
In summary  Unum said drawings from a business arent earned income and therefore  Mr C 
didnt suffer a loss of insured income.  
As Unum wouldnt pay Mr C any money he made a complaint to our service.  Our investigator 
looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. She said the policy  didnt define 
income and so she applied the dictionary  definition which is, money that is earned from 
doing work or received  from investments . She also pointed out the policy  documentation  
didnt say a members business  needed to be making a profit in order  to make a successful 
claim. And the policy  document  said it was designed  to offer Mr C a replacement  income  if 
he was off sick for a considerable length of time. So she thought  Unum  should pay the claim 
but theyd be entitled to reflect the amount of tax Mr C would have had to pay when 
calculating the benefit thats payable. 
Unum responded  to say they didnt  agree.  They  said the investigator was effectively asking 
them to insure  Mr Cs pension as he was putting money into the business and then drawing 
it out. They said the receipt of this pension was in no way related to or affected by Mr Cs ill 
health and they couldnt calculate the tax liabilities. 
Our investigator confirmed the further representations didnt change her thoughts  about the 
outcome of this complaint. She said the policy states it will pay out for lost income  and the 
dictionary definition shows that drawings  can be considered as income.  She also said that 
there was no wording within the policy which  supported  the decision to decline the claim. 
Ref: DRN43422132Unum asked an ombudsman to review the case.  They said the money was being churned  in 
such a way that it was to Mr Cs advantage. They also commented the movement  of the 
money is creating  an artificial situation and HMRC  should be seeing  through  this, although 
its unclear whether they are aware. Finally, Unum  argued this was an abuse of insurance 
and will impact on premiums for others.  So I need  to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  Im considering in this decision  is whether its fair for Unum to say that no benefit 
was payable during the time that Unum accepted the claim. The decision letter says thats 
the period between December 2017  and March  2018. Mr C hasnt  paid any premiums since 
July 2018 and the policy has lapsed.  
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that Unum has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt reject  a claim unreasonably. 
Im upholding Mr Cs complaint because: 
The product  guide  explains, PHI is basically a form of insurance which will provide 
you with a replacement  income  should  you be off sick for some  considerable length 
of time.  It goes  on to say that PHI is a means  of providing  financial support for 
yourself and your family should  accident  or illness render you unable to work for a 
number of months. The policy  terms and conditions dont define income, 
replacement income or financial  support; 
There isnt an exclusion or limitation  in Mr Cs policy which  says he cant  claim for 
income taken from the business  as drawings. Mr C took out his policy around 30 
years ago and his policy contains  no such exclusion.  So I dont think  its reasonable  
to apply a definition, from a different and much  more recent policy, retrospectively  in 
the circumstances of this case; 
The Oxford English  Dictionary defines income as, money received, especially on a 
regular basis, for work or through investments. In the absence of a definition of 
income within the policy terms I think its fair and reasonable to apply this definition in 
the circumstances of this case;
Mr C explained he manages his business by taking drawings from it as his income.  
He says that this has been his way of doing business throughout the life of the policy. 
Unum hasnt disputed  this and Im satisfied Mr Cs explanation is plausible and 
persuasive on this point, particularly taking into account the nature of his business. In 
the experience  of our service its not uncommon  for a business owner to access  
dividends or drawings as a form of income.  And so, taking into account all the 
circumstances, Im satisfied Mr Cs drawings meets  the dictionary definition  of 
income which Ive outlined above;  
Ref: DRN43422133Our service is an informal dispute resolution service which is designed to settle 
disputes between  consumers and financial businesses. So its not my role to 
comment or speculate on the tax implications of Mr Cs manner  of conducting his 
business;
Unum has also argued that upholding this complaint is, in effect, asking them  to 
insure Mr Cs pension.  However,  theyve provided  no evidence  in support of this 
assertion or any further context as to why they consider this to be case.  So this 
doesnt change  my thoughts about  the outcome of this complaint. 
putting things right
Unum should put things  right by:
Backdating the claim and paying  it for the period it was accepted.  Unum  should use 
Mr Cs income,  in the form of drawings,  to calculate  the relevant benefit figure. This 
is subject to the maximum benefit policy benefit figure. Interest  should be added at 
8% simple per year on each  benefit payment that should have  been made, from 
the date each payment should have  been made  until the date settlement is paid.
If there  has been a fluctuation in the level of income from the drawings I think its fair 
for Unum  to calculate the benefit using an average of a three year period prior to 
incapacity.  
my final decision
Im upholding Mr Cs complaint about  Unum Ltd and direct them to put things right in the way 
Ive outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2019. 
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4342213