1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited  [2014]  UKSC 61
K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Bradford  & Bingley Plc received a high level of commission for 
selling them a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  with their joint 
mortgage in 2000.
background
Mr and Mrs G complained  about the mis-sale  of their PPI policy  previously and this Service  
dealt with that complaint in February 2019   we decided  we could not look at the complaint.
In 2018, in light of the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1, Mr S complained to Bradford & 
Bingley Plc about the commission it received from selling them  the PPI policy. When 
Bradford & Bingley  Plc rejected the complaint, they referred it to our Service
In February 2019,  our adjudicator explained to Mr and Mrs G that because  their mortgage 
had been redeemed in 2005, the rules and guidance about commission  didnt apply to them.  
So Bradford  & Bingley Plc wouldnt be refunding any of the commission they paid.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed  with our adjudicators view and asked for the commission complaint   
to be looked at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should explain  that Im not looking at any issues  relating to the sale of the PPI that 
were dealt with by my colleague in February  2019. So my decision will focus solely  on the 
complaint Mr and Mrs G made about the level of commission Bradford & Bingley Plc 
received from the sale of the PPI policy.
Mr and Mrs Gs credit agreement (mortgage) concluded in December 2005 when they 
redeemed their mortgage. That means  the unfair relationship provisions set out at section 
140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about section 140A 
of the Act and the rules  and guidance made by the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA)  about  
the handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission  in the light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. So Bradford & Bingley Plc doesnt need  to refund any of the 
commission Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
This is because the Plevin judgement only applies to agreements that are taken out on or 
after 6 April 2007,  or to agreements  taken  out before then which  were  still running on 6 April 
2008. And although Mr and Mrs G took out their agreement with Bradford  & Bingley Plc 
before 6 April 2007, their mortgage wasnt still running on 6 April 2008   theyd redeemed it 
in December 2005.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint against  Bradford & Bingely Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 May 2019.
Ref: DRN43638222Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4363822