K821x#15Complaint
Mr E complains that the car he acquired through a conditional sale agreement  with 
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
Background
Mr E entered into a conditional sale agreement with Santander in 2018  to acquire a car. He 
says that he hadnt seen  the car before  acquisition  and that had he done so he wouldnt 
have gone ahead. He says the bodywork wasnt in brilliant condition as described; there was 
no evidence of a recent  service as suggested; and he wasnt  provided with an official  
specification despite  asking for one on several occasions. He also says the rear tyres were 
worn and the car was puling to the left.
Mr E says that he raised the issue about  the car pulling to the left and Santander said it 
would inspect this. However because the tyres were worn this inspection  didnt take place. 
The tyres were replaced but Mr E says the issue of the car pulling to the left was never  
assessed. He says this has now led to further issues with the tyres and brakes.
Mr E also complains that his agreement  shouldnt have been started until he took delivery  of 
the car but instead it started  a few weeks earlier and that the car wasnt  delivered  on the 
agreed day. Mr E says he asked to reject  the car but the dealer didnt accept  this.
Santander says that Mr Es conditional  sale agreement was started  on 25 July 2018 but his 
car wasnt delivered until 15 August. It says Mr E raised his complaint on 22 August and it 
accepted that Mr E had agreed  with the dealer that the agreement wouldnt start until 
delivery and so it refunded him the payment relating to the period from 25 July until the car 
was delivered.
It didnt accept that Mr E had been  rushed into the finance agreement and said that he had 
sent a friend  to view the car before  acquisition.
Santander says Mr E raised  a further complaint on 30 August about the car pulling to the left 
and uneven wear  on the tyres. It says it spoke to Mr E and said the car could be inspected  
but that the tyres would  need to be replaced  before this. It covered the cost of four new 
tyres. It says it then tried to contact Mr E to confirm the tyres had been  fitted  as it needed  
this confirmation  before an inspection could be arranged. It says it left messages for Mr E 
but he didnt get back in touch. It says because of the lack of contact Mr Es complaint was 
closed.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint in part. She noted that Santander had already covered 
the cost of four new tyres and provided Mr E with a refund  to reflect  the fact that his 
agreement started before  he had the car. She thought this was reasonable.
In regard to the other issues raised  she said that Mr E wasnt provided  with the correct 
information about the cars service history  and said hed been  caused inconvenience by the 
car not being  delivered on the expected  day. She recommended that Santander cover the 
cost of a service and pay Mr E £200 compensation for the inconvenience he had been  
caused by the dealer.
Ref: DRN40914092Mr E responded to our adjudicators view explaining that the car wasnt  as expected  which is 
why he wanted  to reject it, but as the agreement was started early he lost his right to 
withdraw from it.
Santander didnt  accept that it should  pay for the car to be serviced or pay compensation.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint which, in summary,  gave  the following 
conclusions.
Mr E asked  for a full specification of the car. He was provided with some details about 
the car but didnt receive the full specification he wanted. However  he chose to go ahead 
with the acquisition and had he been concerned about getting more  details,  I would have 
expected him to check these  or view the car before agreeing to acquire it. 
Mr E didnt  see the car before delivery. But this was his choice  and he sent a friend to 
look at the car.
Mr E was told a service had taken  place recently and I hadnt seen any evidence  that this 
had happened.  
The finance agreement was set up before delivery of the car despite it being agreed the 
finance wouldnt start until delivery.  Santander  refunded Mr Es payment for the period 
before he took delivery of the car, which I found reasonable.
Mr E raised concerns about the car pulling to the left and the tyres being worn.  Given  the 
car passed the MOT  shortly before acquisition I cant say that the tyres werent legal at 
the point of supply and so I cant say this was a fault. Santander paid for all four tyres  to 
be replaced without  inspection and I found this a reasonable remedy.
The outstanding  issue was whether there  was a fault with the car at the point of supply 
which was causing it to pull to the left. Santander  offered  to arrange an inspection  of the 
car which I found reasonable. However  Mr E didnt ultimately  respond to Santanders  
offer after his tyres had been replaced. Without the inspection I didnt find I could say 
whether or not the car was faulty.
Mr E raised further issues regarding  the brakes  and the car failing its MOT. Mr E had 
driven the car around  19,000 miles by the time of the MOT  and I didnt find I could say 
without further  evidence that the issues were due to faults that were present at the point  
of supply.
Overall, I found it reasonable that Santander cover the cost of a service  and if Mr E wished 
then an inspection should be arranged.
Following my provisional decision, Santander said that Mr E had part exchanged  the car and 
so it was no longer  in his possession. 
In regard to the service,  Mr E said that he had to pay for a service to be carried out before he 
sold the car. He provided a copy of a quote for a service. Santander said that the dealer had 
evidence of a service taking place as had been suggested and provided  a copy of an invoice 
dated July 2018 on which a service  is mentioned.
Ref: DRN40914093My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I assess each case  based on its merits 
and while  I take relevant  regulations into account  my decision is based  on what  I consider 
fair and reasonable given the circumstances of the complaint.
Mr E acquired a used  car through a conditional sale agreement. Under the regulations,  
Santander can be held liable if the car provided wasnt  of satisfactory  quality or if it was 
misrepresented to Mr E. As I set out in my provisional decision  I didnt think  I had enough 
evidence to say that there were issues outstanding with the car that were present or 
developing at the point of supply. I also found that Mr E had accepted the car and so was 
aware at the outset  of certain issues  he had raised.  However I did find that he was told a 
service had taken place before acquisition.
I have looked  at the service invoice and can see this is dated 24 July 2018 which is at the 
time of Mr E signing the documents  for the car. This invoice doesnt specify work carried out 
other than the oil charge and labour although  it does  mention a service in the notes. So while  
I accept that the dealer did have this work  carried out before the car was provided to Mr E, it 
is also clear from the correspondence in this case that Mr E had asked  for evidence of the 
service and this wasnt provided.  Santander hasnt provided anything  to suggest Mr E was 
given the service information before  he decided  to sell the car. 
On balance, I accept  that Mr E acquired  the car believing a service to have taken place.  
However following  this, because of the lack of information provided, I find it reasonable that 
Mr E then believed the service hadnt  taken place  and so acted on this belief before sale.  
Because of this I think it fair that Santander  refunds him the cost of any service he paid for 
before the car was sold.  That said, I havent seen a copy of the service invoice, only a quote, 
and I think it reasonable  that Santander receives  a copy of the invoice  of the actual  service  
before being required  to refund the cost.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should cover the cost of a service  for 
the car if Mr E provides  evidence that he paid for this before the car was sold.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4091409