K822xcomplaint
Miss M complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited  trading as Very (SDFC) lent 
to her in an irresponsible manner. She also complains about the interest rate that SDFC has 
charged and the frequency  of the payments she has needed to make.
 
background 
Miss M opened a catalogue shopping  account  with SDFC in October 2017. Since then her 
credit limit has been increased on three  occasions  as shown in the table below.
Date of 
Change Amount  of 
IncreaseNew Credit 
Limit 
24/10/2017 New Account £    750
24/01/2018 £   200 £    950
30/04/2018 £   300 £ 1,250
08/03/2019 £   250 £ 1,500
SDFC says that Miss M initially  managed her account well, but she fell into arrears in 
September 2018, and between October  and November 2018.  She brought her account up to 
date at the end of November 2018  before experiencing problems once more  in early 2019.  
At the time she made her complaint  no repayments  had been  made  since  March 2019  and 
her account  has been passed to a third party debt recovery  company.
When Miss M first complained to SDFC it didnt think it had been wrong to offer the initial  
credit limit. But it later concluded that it might not have been  in Miss Ms best interests for it 
to offer the subsequent increases to her credit limit. So SDFC offered to reduce Miss Ms 
outstanding balance by removing all the interest  and charges it had added  since the first 
credit limit increase. 
Miss Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators.  She thought that SDFC 
had provided sufficient information  to Miss M about  the interest rate and repayment  
frequency. She also thought that the offer SDFC had made was fair. So she didnt think  that 
SDFC needed to do anything further than its offer to resolve the complaint.
Miss M didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint  hasnt  been  resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Miss Ms complaint.
The rules  and regulations throughout SDFCs lending relationship  with Miss M required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay 
what she owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment  or affordability  check.
Ref: DRN40014322The checks  had to be borrower focused   so SDFC had to think about whether repaying  
the credit  sustainably would cause difficulties  or adverse  consequences  for Miss M. In 
practice this meant that SDFC had to ensure  that making the payments to the credit  wouldnt  
cause Miss M undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other  words,  it wasnt enough for 
SDFC to simply  think about the likelihood of it getting its money back,  it had to consider the 
impact of any repayments on Miss M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether SDFC did what  it needed  to before initially  
agreeing to Miss Ms initial credit limit.
Before agreeing the initial credit limit SDFC asked Miss M for details of her, and her 
households, normal income. And it did some checks  on her credit  file. SDFC has given us a 
summary of the results of the credit check and they dont show  anything that I think should 
have caused additional concerns to SDFC.
I think that the checks SDFC did before opening the account were proportionate. The 
amounts that Miss M would need  to repay each month, even if shed used the whole credit 
limit at the outset, were  relatively small compared with the income shed declared. Given  
these repayment  amounts,  and what was apparent about Miss Ms circumstances at the 
time, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for SDFC to ask Miss M for the amount  of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before initially 
opening the account. I dont think SDFC was wrong  to initially open Miss Ms account with a 
credit limit of £750.
Ref: DRN40014323SDFC has already agreed that it might not have been in Miss Ms best interests  for it to offer 
the subsequent increases to her credit limit. The first of those  increases took place in 
January 2018.  And SDFC has offered to remove all the interest and charges it has added to 
Miss Ms outstanding balance from that point onwards. That is what Id have expected SDFC 
to do in those  circumstances. So I dont need  to consider whether or not SDFC should have 
agreed to increase Miss Ms credit  limit any further.
It seems  to me that the interest rate that SDFC charged to Miss Ms account would have 
been set out clearly when she initially made  her agreement. And I can see that it is also 
shown on the regular statements that she received. So I cant conclude  that Miss M has 
been treated unfairly by SDFC in that regard.
SDFC has explained to us that Miss M was required to make  repayments every four weeks.  
So that means that on one occasion  in 2018 and on one further occasion in 2019 Miss M 
was required to make two repayments in a calendar  month. Whilst I appreciate that might 
have caused some problems for Miss M if she were paid on a monthly, rather than four 
weekly, cycle it doesnt appear to be unreasonable  for SDFC to make  those repayment  
demands.
So in summary I dont think SDFC treated Miss M unfairly in relation to the interest rate it has 
charged to her account or the repayment  frequency that it applied. And I dont think  SDFC 
was wrong to originally  open the account.  But SDFC has accepted  that it might not have 
been in Miss Ms best interests  for it to offer the increases to her credit  limit from 
January 2018.  So SDFC needs to put things right for Miss M in line with what it has offered.
putting things right
SDFC has agreed that it might not have been  in Miss Ms best interests for it to offer the 
increases to Miss Ms credit limit starting from January 2018. So SDFC should;
Calculate the total of interest  and charges that it, or the third party  debt collection 
company, has applied to Miss Ms balance since the first credit  limit increase on 
24 January 2018.
Arrange with the third party to reduce Miss Ms outstanding balance  by the amount of 
interest and charges  calculated above.  If that is not possible the total of the interest 
and charges should be refunded directly  to Miss M so she can choose whether or not 
to use the refund  to reduce her outstanding balance.
Attempt to agree  an affordable repayment  arrangement with Miss M for any 
remaining balance, or encourage  the third party that now owns the debt to do so.
Remove any adverse  information on Miss Ms credit file in relation to the debt that 
wouldnt have arisen if the interest and charges hadnt been  added to the account 
from January 2018 onwards.
Ref: DRN40014324my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Miss Ms complaint and direct  Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited  to put things right as it has proposed and Ive detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4001432