K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken  out with credit 
cards in 1995. Ms V says Barclays Bank UK PLC,  trading  as Barclaycard, mis-sold her the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Vs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policies werent  mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Ms V took out both a VISA  and a Mastercard as part of the same  application  in 1995, and 
each card was covered  by a PPI policy.
When selling  the PPI, Barclaycard had to make  it clear  to Ms V that she had a choice about 
it. But Ms V says it wasnt  made clear to her that the PPI was optional  and that she wasnt 
given the chance to opt out of it.
Barclaycard has sent us a copy of Ms Vs application form for the credit card. This included a 
section on PPI, with yes  and no boxes to be ticked to show  if Ms V wanted to take it out. 
And the yes box has been  ticked.
If Ms V didnt want  the PPI, I think she couldve ticked the no box, or left the section blank. 
So I think Barclaycard  did make it clear to her that she had a choice about  the PPI. And that 
Ms V chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
Barclaycard says it recommended the PPI to Ms V, so it had to check  that it was right for 
her. And, based on what Ive seen of Ms Vs circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example, she doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover. The policies couldve paid out for longer than Ms V told us she wouldve 
been entitled to full sick pay. And they wouldve meant Ms V didnt need to rely on any 
savings she had to make her repayments  if she wasnt  earning.
Ms V also mentioned pensions she had. But the PPI would  pay out in different 
circumstances to these  pensions. So I still think it was right for her.
As well as checking it was right for her, Barclaycard had to give Ms V clear  information about 
the PPI. Its possible the information it gave her wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But, for 
the same  reasons I think it was right for her, it seems like the PPI would have  been  useful for 
Ms V if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Ms V off taking it out.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Barclaycard doesnt have to refund 
everything Ms V paid for it. But Barclaycard has already offered  to give Ms V back  some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
I understand Barclaycard has already paid this to Ms V.
Ref: DRN41135842my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4113584