K821x#15complaint
Ms W complains about the way Bank  of Scotland plc have  handled her current account 
given that shes  been experiencing financial difficulties.
background
Ms W had a current  account with Bank of Scotland up until May 2018. She had an agreed 
overdraft limit of £3,500  which  she regularly exceeded.
In December 2017, Bank of Scotland recognised Ms W was experiencing financial difficulties 
and at that point  stopped applying interest  or charges to her account.
In May 2018, they closed Ms Ws account and opened a basic  account for her. This account 
has no credit  facility  and so no overdraft interest or charges  can be applied.  At the same 
time, Ms W agreed  a plan to pay off the amount owing on the closed account at £10 per 
month.
Ms W says Bank of Scotland  should  have recognised she was experiencing financial 
difficulties much earlier. She says she went into her branch on a number of occasions over 
several years to tell them she was struggling  and to ask for help.
She complained to Bank of Scotland in August 2018 and asked them  to refund any charges 
over the previous eight years relating to direct  debits, standing orders  and/or unarranged 
overdrafts.
Bank of Scotland responded by paying Ms W £100 compensation because they should have 
referred her to their Money Management Team (MMT) earlier.  However, they didnt uphold 
the other aspects of the complaint and said all fees and charges had been applied correctly.
Ms W wasnt happy with this outcome and complained to us. Our investigator  looked into it 
and thought the bank  had done  nothing  wrong.
Ms W disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  Because I disagreed 
with our investigators opinion, I decided to issue a provisional decision before making my 
final decision  about this complaint. This gave both Ms W and Bank  of Scotland a chance  to 
comment on my thinking and/or provide  more  information or evidence  before I make my final 
decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my thinking on the substance  of Ms Ws complaint, its important to 
be clear about exactly what Im allowed to consider in making this decision.
Ms W also has a mortgage with Bank of Scotland. And she had a credit  card account 
with them  which defaulted in 2011.
Ref: DRN49253902Her complaint to Bank  of Scotland was specifically about her current account and the 
charges and interest applied to it. So, Im not looking here at charges applied to the 
mortgage account or the defaulting of the credit  card account.
Ms W asked  Bank of Scotland to refund  charges  and interest applied over the last 
eight years.
The rules  which govern our investigations,  set out by the Financial Conduct Authority, 
say that we cant consider complaints made  more  than six years after the events 
complained about or, if its later, six years after the complainant should reasonably 
have been aware  that they had cause to complain  unless  there  are exceptional  
circumstances which explain the delay in making the complaint or the business 
consents.
That being  the case, Im not looking at anything Bank of Scotland did before 20 
August 2012  which is six years before Ms W complained to them.
Bank of Scotland do not consent to us going back further than that in our 
investigation. And I can see no exceptional circumstances which  might  explain why 
Ms W couldnt make the complaint before August 2018.
Turning to the matters  I can consider, I think Ms Ws complaint should be upheld. I 
think Bank of Scotland should  have  recognised  she was experiencing financial 
difficulties before December 2017. And I think they might have taken the action they 
eventually took in December 2017  somewhat  earlier.  Ill explain why. If Ms W or Bank 
of Scotland disagree with my thinking,  they have an opportunity now to provide 
further information or comments  before  I make  my final decision.
Ms W says she went into her branch once a year during  the relevant period to inform 
Bank of Scotland that she was experiencing financial difficulties.
Bank of Scotland say they have no record of Ms W raising this issue  in branch at any 
point. But in their final response to Ms Ws complaint, they said they should have 
referred Ms W to their MMT  earlier.
When I asked them to explain  why they took this view and when exactly they feel they 
should have referred  Ms W to their MMT, they said theyd simply given Ms W the 
benefit of any doubt and assumed that she had  as she said  raised  the issue  in 
branch.
I think Bank of Scotlands approach to this is very fair and reasonable. And I agree 
theres no reason  to doubt Ms W when  she says she raised  her difficulties in branch 
on a number of occasions.
Even if I doubted Ms Ws word  on this, theres enough evidence here for me to be 
satisfied that Bank of Scotland should  have picked  up that Ms W was in financial 
difficulties whether she raised it with them or not.
And to be clear, our view is that there  are instances  where wed expect a business to 
pick up on signs that a consumer is struggling without them contacting  the business 
to say so.
Ref: DRN49253903Ms Ws credit card account  with Bank  of Scotland  defaulted in 2011.  This may not 
have been enough in itself to trigger action by the bank on the basis  of financial 
difficulty, given  that her current account  was being managed within  agreed limits at 
the time.  But it is background information   available to Bank of Scotland  which  
might have been taken  into account as a wider  picture of financial difficulty emerged 
later.
Ms W also started missing mortgage payments  in 2013 and was regularly charged 
'arrears management fees'  from 2013.  There appear to be at least  15 such fees in the 
two years or so after May 2013.
Again, this is a Bank of Scotland  mortgage,  so this information is available to the 
bank and might have been  taken  into account. And the fact she was missing these 
mortgage payments  is also apparent in her current account statements. There  are 
failed direct debits from that account to her mortgage account.
Ms W also regularly  went  over her £3500 arranged overdraft. For example, from the 
information we have, she went over the limit four times between  September  and 
December 2012,  19 times  in 2013  and 13 times in 2014.
Bank of Scotland say that Ms W always brought her account back  within agreed 
overdraft limits reasonably quickly  they point out that if shed been over the limit for 
more than 30 days at any point that would  have triggered a referral  to their collections 
team.
I do accept that. However, its my view that when you put all of the information 
together, theres  a picture of someone struggling to keep afloat  and regularly 
incurring charges for going over her agreed  overdraft limit. I dont think  its 
unreasonable to suggest  that Ms W was in financial difficulty  - and noticeably  so.
Its also my view that Bank of Scotland should have taken action by around October 
2013, when Ms W had missed several  mortgage payments and had exceeded  her 
current account overdraft  limit persistently in the previous 12 months.
When Bank of Scotland did take steps to address Ms Ws financial difficulties, in late 
2017 and early 2018, they clearly accepted that she was in need  of their help. I cant 
see what specifically had changed between late 2013 and late 2017. The same cycle  
of exceeding the agreed  overdraft limit regularly  was in evidence.  And the problems 
with the mortgage were  already apparent in 2013.
In other  words, if Bank  of Scotland accept  as they do  that Ms W was in financial 
difficulty in late 2017, I dont think they could  argue  that she wasnt actually  in 
difficulty in 2013.
To summarise, I think Bank of Scotland should have  recognised  Ms Ws financial 
difficulties by around October 2013.  And at that point, they should have taken similar 
steps to the ones they eventually took in late 2017.
I understand why the bank may have been  reluctant to close  Ms Ws current account 
 and I understand doing so would certainly  have had repercussions  at the time for 
Ms W. But I think by October 2013, it should have been apparent that Ms W was 
trapped in a cycle of debt that could not be resolved  by carrying  on with the status 
quo.
Ref: DRN49253904If the bank  had taken those  steps in 2013,  then Ms W would not have  incurred 
interest and/or charges  on her overdraft from that point onwards. She would have 
been paying off the overdraft  presumably by monthly instalments similar to those 
agreed in 2018.  But any payments she made in that way would have  been  reducing 
her overall debt.
So, Im minded  unless  I get and more  information or evidence  in response to this 
provisional decision which changes  my mind  to ask Bank of Scotland to refund to 
Ms W any interest  or charges applied to her current account resulting from her being 
overdrawn after October 2013.
For the sake of complete  clarity, I mean both interest / charges applied  to her agreed  
overdraft and to her unarranged overdraft. She would have been paying  neither from 
October 2013 onwards if Bank of Scotland had taken steps to address her financial 
difficulties at that time as I believe they should  have.
Im also going to ask Bank of Scotland to pay Ms W compensation for her trouble and 
upset between October 2013 and December 2017  (when they stopped  applying  
interest and/or charges  to her debt). Ive no doubt  she suffered considerable stress 
during this period in trying to make ends meet  particularly  whilst trying to stay within  
her agreed overdraft limit.
If Ms Ws financial position  had been addressed much earlier,  she would have been 
considerably less worried about the possibility of charges and interest  pushing  her 
further into debt.  I think £250 is sufficient compensation for the degree of trouble and 
upset Ms W suffered.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Ms W responded to say she was broadly happy  with my provisional decision. But she 
queried why Id said Bank of Scotland should  refund interest and charges on her account 
back to October 2013 rather  than go back further. 
She noted that Id said I could consider what Bank  of Scotland  had done  within  the six years 
prior to her complaint to them. She complained in August 2018, so six years  prior to that 
would be August 2012 rather  than October 2013.
Bank of Scotland responded to say they didnt agree with my provisional decision.  Ill try to 
summarise their arguments.
They say large monthly credits were  paid into the account during 2013 and thereafter.  I 
assume theyre suggesting this indicates that Ms W wasnt   or shouldnt have been   in 
financial difficulty.
I said Ms Ws failed  direct  debits (when she went over her overdraft limit) might have 
indicated financial difficulty. Bank  of Scotland  say they failed due to spending which  doesnt  
suggest financial hardship (e.g. payments to Amazon and Sky subscriptions).
They say statements were sent to Ms W on a monthly basis  and she used on-line facilities  
through which statements, letters and correspondence were available and were  read.  Some 
of those communications invite Ms W to contact the bank if shes experiencing financial 
difficulty.
Ref: DRN49253905And they say they have no record of any contact  from Mrs W to ask them to help with 
financial difficulty.
They say the position changed  in 2017   when they agreed with Ms W that the account 
should be closed   because they changed the way they charged customers for using their 
overdraft facilities, which meant it would have been  more expensive for Ms W to continue  to 
use her account in the same way.
Finally, Bank of Scotland  say that if I do uphold the complaint, as per my provisional 
decision, it would nonetheless be unfair to award  interest to Ms W on the refunded interest 
and charges because Ms W used  an overdraft facility with them  on a monthly basis 
throughout the period  in question.
Bank of Scotland also forwarded  an example of the letters sent to Ms W during the period in 
question and an online customer  profile for Ms W. 
The latter appears  to show Ms W has a basic account plus four other accounts which are 
around £1500 in credit in total. The list of accounts  itself isnt dated  and Bank of Scotland  
havent said why they sent it. Its attached to a statement relating to the closed current  
account which shows Ms W gradually paying off that debt. The last entry on that statement is 
dated August  2019.
I assume the purpose of providing  us with details of all Ms Ws accounts was to show that 
shes not in financial  difficulty  currently (or at least as at August 2019).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including the responses to my provisional  
decision provided by Ms W and Bank of Scotland.
I havent changed my mind about  upholding the complaint or about  the redress I suggested 
Bank of Scotland should pay Ms W. Ill explain  why.
Ill take Ms Ws comments first. Shes right to say that I said in my provisional decision I 
couldnt consider  anything  Bank of Scotland did before August 2012. That doesnt mean Im 
necessarily going  to say everything Bank  of Scotland did after that date was wrong.  
In short,  I have to decide when I think the pattern of information available  to Bank of 
Scotland should have prompted them to take action to find out whether she was in financial 
difficulty. 
In my view, thats around October 2013,  as I explained  and for the reasons I set out - in my 
provisional decision. Its around  then that theres an established pattern of Ms W going over 
the arranged overdraft very regularly and missing direct debits as a consequence.  
I hope Ms W will understand that I couldnt  expect Bank of Scotland to act on the first 
occasion she went overdrawn  or had failed direct  debits  - at that point, theres no pattern 
which would allow Bank of Scotland to pick up that she was in difficulty.  In my judgement  the 
pattern is sufficiently established by October 2013, but not before that.
Bank of Scotland put forward a number of arguments in response to my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN49253906They refer to large monthly credits  going into Ms Ws account during 2013 and thereafter.  
And they appear  to imply this means she wasnt in financial difficulty.  
It appears Ms Ws wage income during  the period from early 2013  to late 2017 is around 
£1,000 per month  significantly less on some occasions. She also claimed  working and 
child tax credit throughout that period. 
Im not going  to get into a semantic debate about  whether  those were  large monthly 
credits,  but they certainly dont  present  a picture  of comfortable wealth. And I remain of the 
view that Ms Ws financial difficulties are evidenced  by the pattern  of failed direct debits and 
exceeded overdraft  limits during the period in question.
Bank of Scotland also queried  whether some  of the spending from Ms Ws account  which  
may then have caused direct debits to fail  was essential. They referred  to one payment to 
Amazon and a Sky subscription. 
I dont think its for me  or Bank of Scotland - to question Ms Ws spending in detail. You 
can buy most things from Amazon  including essentials. And choosing to subscribe to a TV 
channel doesnt  in my view necessarily indicate that you ought  not to be in financial difficulty.  
I entirely accept Bank of Scotlands suggestion  that they invited Ms W to contact them  if she 
was experiencing financial  difficulty in a number of communications  that she would  or 
should  have read.
However, I think this misses the point. Ms W says she did contact Bank of Scotland   
through her branch   on a number of occasions,  to ask for help.  And, as they said in their 
final response to Ms Ws complaint and later confirmed to me, Bank of Scotland  decided to 
accept she did do so. 
They now say they have no record of Ms W contacting them,  but they previously  said they 
gave the benefit of the doubt to Ms W and believed her when she said she had raised the 
issue in branch. This was why they admitted they should have referred  her to their Money 
Management Team  (MMT) earlier. 
Given that theyve  accepted that, the issue then becomes simply a question of when they 
should have provided the assistance they eventually provided in 2017. My view remains that 
thats in 2013, when  the pattern of exceeded overdraft limits and failed direct debits is 
evident.
I understand that Bank of Scotland changed the way they charge for overdrafts in 2017.  
They say that meant  Ms W would  be worse off. Ive no doubt that is the case, but it has no 
bearing at all on whether  Ms W was in financial difficulty from 2013 onwards  or on whether  
Bank of Scotland should have picked that up.
Bank of Scotland have also now sent records which seem  to show Ms W has a healthy 
balance overall  in a number of accounts  she has with them.  Im not sure what theyre  
intending to show  by giving me that information. The idea of the support they provided  to 
Ms W in 2017 was to help her escape  her financial difficulties.  It seems to have succeeded  
which is good. 
Ref: DRN49253907If Ms W has now escaped  the cycle of exceeded overdrafts etc. and has some financial 
stability  after Bank of Scotland stopped adding charges and interest to her account  in 2017 
- its at least  arguable she might  have been  able to do that much earlier if that support had 
been afforded to her in 2013. 
So, in summary,  Im still satisfied the complaint should be upheld.  Bank of Scotland admitted 
they should have helped  Ms W earlier.  They didnt.  The consequence  was that Ms W paid 
interest and charges on her account for a prolonged period   after October 2013  when she 
wouldnt have if Bank of Scotland had recognised her position  and provided  appropriate  
support at the time.
Im also satisfied that Ms W has been deprived  of the money she paid in charges and 
interest during  that period, when she would otherwise have had access to it (whether or not 
that was through an overdraft facility with Bank  of Scotland).
So my provisional decision  and the redress suggested  remains  unchanged.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Bank of Scotland plc should refund any interest  or charges applied to Ms Ws current 
account from October 2013 until December 2017 which  resulted  from her being overdrawn.
They should  pay interest on these payments at 8% simple   calculated from the time of each  
individual charge or interest payment to the date on which  Ms W receives the refund. 
If Bank of Scotland deduct  tax from those interest  payments they should  give Ms W a 
certificate showing how much theyve deducted.
They should  also pay Ms W £250  compensation for her trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4925390