K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out to protect a 
mortgage in 2003 which was amended to cover  further advances in 2004, 2005 and 2007. 
Mr and Mrs F say National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
NatWest had to make  Mr and Mrs F aware  that the PPI was optional and gain their consent  
before adding it to their mortgage. I cant be certain what  was said when  Mr and Mrs F took 
out their mortgage  in 2003 but NatWest has sent us a copy of the available paperwork. 
Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage application was completed  before it was printed including personal 
information about them both. The form also had a separate section for PPI where the option 
to cover Mr F only had been selected. I think its likely this form was completed  as a result  of 
a conversation that took place between  Mr and Mrs F and a NatWest representative where 
the decision to take PPI was made.  Mr and Mrs F also signed the application in agreement 
with the selections that had been  made on it. Based on the information available I think  
NatWest made it clear that Mr and Mrs F didnt have to take out the PPI and that they chose 
to take it out.
Mrs F was added to the PPI in 2004  following Mr and Mrs F taking out a further advance. 
The level of cover was increased at this time and was later amended  in 2005 and 2007 when 
two further advances were taken.  There is limited information form the time these 
amendments were  made, but as I think Mr and Mrs F would have been aware the PPI was 
optional when they first took it, they would  also have been aware they didnt have to take the 
policy when they applied for the further advances.  But I can understand why they may not 
remember this.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs F so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for them. But it did have  to make sure Mr and Mrs F got the information they needed to 
decide if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means  they had 
available of making their repayments which included sick pay. But the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to their sick pay and for longer. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like they 
were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for them  if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put them off taking out the cover.  
Which means NatWest doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F.
Ref: DRN42743052Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs F have said - including what  theyve  said about not 
being told about the commission  NatWest  received  when selling them  the PPI. But NatWest 
wasnt required to tell Mr and Mrs F about  this so these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 May 2019
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4274305