K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy with how Creation Financial Services Limited has handled his accounts  
during a period of financial difficulty.  In particular Mr P doesnt think Creation has been 
sympathetic enough  to him due to the mental health  issues he suffers  with. 
background
Mr P raised a formal  complaint with Creation.  He is unhappy with the fact his accounts were 
passed between  collection  agencies, and that he was sent numerous  default notices and 
letters which  contained conflicting information  in them.  He says this correspondence  caused 
him a great amount  of stress. He doesnt  think Creation made reasonable adjustments in 
light of his disability.  
Creation looked  at this complaint. Overall they felt theyd acted fairly  and so didnt uphold the 
case. Creation  has told our service they werent made aware  of Mr Ps financial difficulties  
for quite  some time.  And that it was only right for them to send regular letters to Mr P 
advising him of the arrears on the accounts. 
An investigator has already looked  at this case. She felt that Creation had acted reasonably  
and so didnt uphold the case. Having considered all the evidence  she was of the opinion 
that Creation had made reasonable efforts to contact and help Mr P. And she didnt think  it 
was fair to ask them to write off Mr Ps outstanding debt.
As Mr P remains dissatisfied, this complaint has now been  passed to me to look at. Further  
evidence has been provided to our service by both Mr P and Creation. Ive carefully 
reviewed all of this. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst Ive looked at all the evidence, this 
decision will focus on what I think are the key issues in dispute.
Im afraid just like the investigator I too wont be upholding this complaint or asking Creation 
to do anything further. I dont believe Creation acted incorrectly by approving  Mr Ps credit  
card applications  and allowing him to open the accounts. Just because  Mr P had been  made  
bankrupt some time prior,  I dont  think this is a sole reason to decline an application for 
credit. I note Mr Ps further submissions about his bankruptcy and additional checks being 
required, but I still think Creation has acted reasonably.
Once the accounts were open,  I think Creation acted fairly in how they addressed  matters.  It 
appears Mr P cancelled a direct debit and, at times, Creation struggled to get in touch with 
him. I can see the accounts were passed around but I note at the moment a specialist  team 
is looking after Mr Ps accounts.  I think this team is well equipped to deal with cases  such  as 
Mr Ps and offer the best support going forward. 
Mr P has expressed his dissatisfaction at being asked to provide Creation with details about 
his income and expenditure. Even if Mr P has previously provided this information,  I dont 
think its unreasonable for them  to review this from time to time to monitor  his affordability.  I 
would urge Mr P to co-operate with Creation going forward  in doing this.
Ref: DRN47650842I do understand that this has been  incredibly  stressful  for Mr P and receiving  certain 
correspondence from Creation has been upsetting.  Indeed  Mr P has told our service when 
unwell he didnt open post at times.  But Creation hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably. The 
correspondence that Ive seen clearly  explains the arrears on the account and explains what  
Mr P should  do if hes unable to make  payment.  
Creation has advised  our service that Mr P never  told them about the difficulties he 
experienced on the phone. As such they say they couldnt make the required reasonable 
adjustments. However Im pleased to see that theyll ensure the necessary adjustments  are 
made going forward. 
Overall I think  the actions of Creation have been fair. I dont think  its unreasonable for them 
to want information  concerning Mr Ps income  and expenditure and to then review  this. I 
wont be asking Creation to write off Mr Ps outstanding debt or award any compensation. If 
Mr P didnt feel able to speak with Creation  on the phone he could have communicated with 
them in writing instead. Im satisfied  Ive seen evidence of Creation trying  to help Mr P. And 
this includes applying no interest or fees to his accounts since  December 2017.  I therefore 
wont be upholding Mr Ps complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4765084