K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn) acted irresponsibly when it lent 
him money  to buy a car, and that now the loan is in default, hes being  asked to repay  more  
than he owes.
background
Mr B entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn  in 2016. He was to pay 
about £316 a month  towards  a loan of just under £10,000 which he used to buy a car. He 
didnt make the first few payments  and about  three months later talked to Moneybarn  about 
his financial situation.  Based on the information  Mr B provided, Moneybarn  agreed a new 
payment going  forwards  about  £127 a month  extra,  until hed caught up on missed 
payments. Mr B didnt  make the next payment, so the following month  Moneybarn  said the 
account was in default, and over the next month or so matters  progressed until Moneybarn  
terminated the agreement.
A couple of weeks later Mr B said he could bring the account up to date. Moneybarn 
obtained a consent order. That essentially meant it had been through a repossession  
process in court  but it wouldnt repossess the car if Mr B maintained  monthly payments of 
just under £330 a month. Mr B brought the account up to date, but still didnt make  all the 
payments as they fell due. Eventually  Moneybarn said it was going to repossess the car, and 
Mr B explained that there had been some fraudulent activity on his bank account  which 
prevented him from making payment. He made one more payment, but eventually the car 
was repossessed in February 2018.  It was sold a month later.
Mr B doesnt  think he should  have any outstanding debt as hes returned the car. And he 
also doesnt think Moneybarn should have lent to him in the first place. When he complained  
to Moneybarn about this it said it wouldnt change its stance.
Our investigator looked at whether Moneybarn had lent responsibly  and concluded it had. 
She also thought  Moneybarn  was correct in asking Mr B to repay the outstanding debt, 
which she thought  was the amount due after the sale of the car had been taken into account.
Mr B is unhappy about this so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two main parts to this complaint. Im not going to uphold  either part. Ill explain 
why.
the lending decision
Moneybarn was required to lend responsibly  to Mr B. So it should have carried out a credit 
assessment of Mr Bs circumstances before it lent to him. There arent  any set rules  about 
how Moneybarn should conduct such an assessment  but it should carry out sufficient, 
proportionate checks before it agrees  to lend.
Ref: DRN47890362The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out the rules and guidelines Moneybarn must  
follow when deciding whether to lend to a customer.  In 2014, the FCA issued rules on 
responsible lending. Part of those  rules (in particular CONC5.2A.17) says that a lender 
should  in nearly all cases  assess an applicants  outgoings as well as income before 
deciding whether to lend.
Moneybarn says that it carried out sufficient  checks.  It looked  at Mr Bs credit file and his 
income before deciding  whether to lend. Having looked at Mr Bs credit file from the time I 
think the first part of the check was reasonable. Although Mr Bs record  wasnt  perfect, there 
werent strong indicators that he wouldnt  be able to meet the repayments.
Moneybarn also checked Mr Bs income.  It says as the required monthly repayment wasnt  
more than 25% of Mr Bs income they should have  been affordable. Our adjudicator  thought 
that was sufficient.
I dont agree with that approach. To be in line with the FCA rules,  I think Moneybarn  should 
have made  an assessment of Mr Bs actual  outgoings, rather  than assume he could afford  
repayments based on his income. Only if the information Mr B provided  flagged up potential  
difficulties would I think it proportionate for Moneybarn to check bank statements before 
lending.
I understand Mr B should have provided information  about his outgoings during the 
application process  but I havent seen any evidence that this was done. I think that was a 
failing on Moneybarns part. So Ive thought about whether, if Moneybarn  had carried  out this 
check, it would still have lent to Mr B. 
Overall, I think it would have. 
I think it reasonable to say Mr B would have given  Moneybarn information in line with his 
actual outgoings  when he applied for the loan. Our adjudicator looked at Mr Bs bank  
statements covering  the period when he applied for the loan, and she concluded Mr B could  
afford the first repayment figure. Ive looked at them too and agree with her conclusions.  
Moneybarn also talked  to Mr B about his outgoings  less than three  months after providing 
the loan, and he gave information that suggested  he could afford an extra £127 a month on 
top of his regular payment. Our adjudicator looked  at the worst case  scenario for Mr B based  
on what he told us and Moneybarn  thats minimum income and maximum outgoings  and 
thought he could afford the increased  payment.  Again I agree with what she said.  
I also think it unlikely Mr Bs financial  situation changed much in less than three  months  he 
hasnt said, for instance that he lost his job in the intervening period. He has mentioned 
splitting up with his partner  but I cant say Moneybarn should  have anticipated  that might 
happen when  it lent.
On balance I think Mr B would have most likely provided the same  or similar  information  at 
the point he was applying for the loan as he did three months later.  That suggests he should  
have been able to afford  the loan.  
Mr B has told us he was gambling  when  he applied for the loan and a check  of his bank 
statements would have  revealed that. Ive already  explained why I dont think Moneybarn 
needed to ask for Mr Bs bank statements before it lent to him. And I cant see Mr B told 
Ref: DRN47890363Moneybarn he was gambling. So I dont think that was information Moneybarn could have 
taken into account  when deciding whether to lend to Mr B. 
In summary  I think if Moneybarn had carried out sufficient checks  it would still have lent to 
Mr B.
outstanding debt
Mr B says its unfair for Moneybarn to say he still owes a substantial amount of money (or 
anything) because  he surrendered the car. And I understand why he thinks  that. But Mr B 
did sign a credit agreement which explained  how much he was borrowing overall  which 
was just under £19,000, once interest had been  added to his loan. From what  Ive seen, 
Moneybarn has applied  all the instalments  Mr B paid to his account, and deducted the sale 
proceeds of the car from his debt. And it does appear to have added fees and charges in line 
with his agreement. I can see Moneybarn has also offered Mr B a discount if he pays  the full 
amount promptly. So long as Moneybarn calculates the amount due in line with the terms 
and conditions (including any early settlement rebate) of Mr Bs agreement,  I wouldnt ask it 
to change the outstanding  figure.  
I would remind Moneybarn that it should be treating Mr B positively and sympathetically 
according to his current financial situation. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.  
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4789036