K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc wrongly withdrew money from his account and then 
deliberately misled him about what it had done and why.  
background
Mr H has an account with Santander. In March 2018 Santander received a letter from the 
Child Support Agency  (CSA) headed  Statutory requirement: lump sum deduction order  
interim order. The letter explained  that the CSA had made a lump  sum interim deduction 
order and intended  to recover arrears of child maintenance  from Mr Hs account. It explained 
that the order operated as an instruction not to do anything  that would reduce the amount 
standing to the credit of the account below a certain sum. It said,  in bold lettering, that 
payment was not due under the interim order. 
The balance of Mr Hs account was more than the sum specified in the order and the letter. 
Santander transferred  that sum to a holding account but didnt, at that point, transfer it to the 
CSA. But it wasnt then available  to Mr H either.  Santander confirmed to the CSA that it had 
set up the order  successfully. 
Mr H was also given notice of the order. When he found out about it, he wrote to Santander 
to say that, to the best of his knowledge, he didnt  owe any child maintenance and would be 
taking further  action.
The CSA wrote to Santander  again  the following month, this time with a final order.  The 
agencys letter this time said that Santander  would have to make payment from Mr Hs 
account and that it would shortly be receiving instructions on how to do so. The bank 
confirmed it had secured  the sum set out in the order. 
Mr H complained that Santander had acted without his authority and hadnt acted in line with 
the orders. The final order said that payment should  be made from a specified account,  
identified by his sort code  and account  number. But Santander hadnt made a payment from 
his account to the CSA, and indeed it hadnt  at that point  been instructed to do so. Rather, it 
had made  a payment to the holding account. 
When, some  time later, the CSA did request payment, Mr H says it was wrongly made  from 
the holding account, not from his current account.  The final order required payment to be 
made from the account specified in it.  
When challenged,  Santander told Mr H it was obliged under a court  order  to do what  it did. 
Mr H said the CSA interim order expressly  didnt require payment  and was in any event not a 
court order.  
Mr H and Santander were  unable to resolve the matter, and so Mr H referred it to this 
service, where one of our adjudicators considered  it. He didnt recommend that we uphold  
Mr Hs complaint. Mr H asked that an ombudsman review the matter.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Im broadly in 
agreement with the adjudicators conclusions. 
Ref: DRN43719572I should mention  at the outset that Mr H has been  very thorough  in his submissions and has 
written at some length. My own comments will be rather more brief, in line with this services 
statutory remit as an informal  dispute  resolution service. I can assure  Mr H however that Ive 
given due consideration to everything  hes told us.
I understand Mr Hs point that, by moving  money to a holding account, Santander wasnt 
complying with the interim  lump sum deduction  order and the bank  therefore  transferred 
money without proper authority. That order and the final order both specified the account to 
which it related. Section  32G(1) of the Child Support Act 1991  addresses  freezing orders  
and says:
 an order under section  32E or 32F which  specifies an account held with a deposit-taker 
shall operate as an instruction to the deposit-taker not to do anything that would reduce the 
amount standing to the credit of the account below the amount specified in the order  
Section 32H(1) addresses payments and includes:
an  order  under section  32F which specifies an account held with a deposit-taker  shall 
operate as an instruction to the deposit-taker  to deduct from the account and pay to the 
Commission the remaining amount.
The emphasis is mine. Section 32E deals with interim orders  and section  32F with final 
orders. 
So, its arguable  that moving  money  to a different account did reduce the money  standing  to 
the credit  of the specified account,  even if it didnt reduce the amount standing  to the credit 
of Mr H. And its arguable  too that, by paying  the CSA by transfer from the holding  account 
rather than the account specified  in the final order, Santander didnt  do exactly what the 
order said it should.   
But that depends to some extent on how the holding account was set up and designated and 
how closely it was linked  to the Mr Hs current account. Santander says that this was the 
only way it could comply  with the orders,  since  it couldnt simply restrict the amount that 
could be withdrawn from the current account. It points  out that the credit balance  on the 
holding account  always represented money  it owed to Mr H, just as a credit balance on any 
other account would.  
Its not for me to decide whether Santander  complied with the orders  by acting in the way it 
did. Rather, what Im required to do is to decide what I consider to be a fair and reasonable 
resolution to Mr Hs complaint; and one thing I must take into account  in doing that is any 
relevant law. I make the following observations:
The aim of the interim order was to freeze  funds to that the CSA could, if necessary, 
recover from Santander  money  it said was owed by Mr H.
The aim of the final order  was enable the CSA to take payment from Mr H. 
It would have  been misleading  for Santander  to have told the CSA that it couldnt 
comply with the order, since the account specified did belong  to Mr H and had a 
balance in excess of the amount set out in the order.  
Santander  says, and I accept, that placing funds in a holding account was the only way 
it could effectively place a partial  block  on the account.
Ref: DRN43719573Had Santander  been able to place a partial restriction  on Mr Hs account (so he could 
deal with all but the sum specified in the interim order) and then paid the CSA directly 
from that account  his overall  position would have been no different.   
I turn now to Mr Hs complaint that Santander  wrongly referred to the interim lump  sum 
deduction order as a court order. His point here is that it wasnt made by a court but by a 
government agency,  and that Santander suggested they were effectively the same thing. 
Santander accepted that its description  wasnt correct and had apologised. 
On this issue, I note that the CSA sent Mr H a copy of the order   and he wrote to Santander 
as a result. So he must have known what Santander  had received.  As he says,  it wasnt  a 
court order,  but I dont  believe  that makes any material difference to the way Santander 
handled it. It was an instruction  to the bank  to secure funds, and Santander  had no real 
choice but to comply  with it by freezing funds. 
I realise that Mr H feels hes been  treated unfairly by the CSA and that Santander has added 
to his sense of injustice. But, when viewed  as a whole, I dont believe the bank  has treated 
him unfairly.       
my final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is not to require Santander UK plc to do anything further 
to resolve Mr Hs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision before 28 July 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4371957