K820x#14complaint
Ms W says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
policy in 1998  with a credit  card.  Ms W stopped  using her card around  2005 and it was 
closed completely by Tesco in 2006.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  Ms W still 
thinks she was mis-sold the PPI and has asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Ms W cant remember much about the sale but Tescos records  show she bought the PPI 
whilst applying, by post, for a new credit card in July 1998. Ms W says she never  agreed  to 
PPI and didnt  need it. 
These events are now over 20 years  ago and neither  party can show  me the original 
application form or an agreement that was used. However, Tesco  sent in an example of the 
type of form that was typically  used at that time.  Ive seen quite a few similar sales  from 1998 
and the form Tesco  has showed me corresponds with many others Ive seen. 
I can see, for example, that the form gave an obvious choice to either have,  or not have, PPI 
with the new credit card. This is because there  was an option box underneath  a heading 
which said Extra Optional Services. To get the PPI added, Ms W would have needed to 
sign her name next to a declaration about Cardholder  Payment Protection, confirming she 
wanted this type of cover. She would also have needed to sign the application  form again  at 
the bottom  to agree to the credit terms. 
Ive also looked  carefully at Ms Ws spending  on the card. This tells me that she was 
charged quite a bit for PPI and so this would have shown up on her regular monthly 
statements as a charge.  I think  if she hadnt ever asked for the cover, she would have 
wanted to know  why she was being  charged on a regular basis  on her statements.
So in the absence of the original documentation,  these things show  me its more likely she 
agreed to the policy, knew it was optional and would have been able to see such  a policy  
had been set up on her account. 
I think Tesco properly obtained  her consent.
I note this was a postal  application and not an advised sale.  So Tesco  didnt need  to make 
sure the policy  was suitable for her. The decision about buying the cover was for Ms W to 
make and she would have made her way through the postal form without any intervention 
from Tesco. 
Ref: DRN46233702My experience of these  types of sale is that the application  was part of a wider  leaflet  based  
form which would have  also included some  brief details about the policy,  including the cost.  
So I think Ms W would have had enough information on which  to make an informed decision.  
I can certainly see ways in which the form could have  been set out more clearly  but I dont 
think theres enough evidence to say this would have changed what  Ms W went  on to do.
This is because Ive looked at Ms Ws situation  and I think she was eligible for the cover and 
not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types  of policy.  The cost 
of the PPI was 70p per £100  of the outstanding card balance so I think  this was affordable 
for her.
Looking at the work she did, I agree  Ms W may have had some  sickness protection.  But this 
doesnt necessarily  mean  the PPI cover wasnt  of value to her. It would have paid out 10% of 
her outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if shed needed to claim.  This wouldve 
been in addition to any other means  she had at that time. So I think this policy was of use.
Im sorry  to disappoint her but this means Im not upholding  Ms Ws complaint.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
anything to Ms W.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4623370