K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mrs P raised  a complaint  about a lifetime mortgage taken with Aviva  Equity  
Release UK Limited in 2004. The representative of the estate (Mr L) has put forward  that he 
doesnt believe a full fact-finding process/due diligence was done. He also has concerns 
over the reasons given for the equity release being needed, that the terms and conditions  
are on the wrong  letterheaded paper and he believes Avivas  statement,  that all of the 
beneficiaries were contacted, is wrong  as he and another relative werent.
background
In late 2003 Mr and Mrs P met with Aviva to discuss releasing equity from their home.  At the 
time Mr and Mrs P were  retired  and aged  85 and 78 respectively. Their  joint income was 
£835 per month,  almost all of which went on normal outgoings, and theyd lived in their home 
for 12 years. They had no mortgage  on their home and didnt have any debts. They also 
didnt have any savings  or investments to fall back on.
The release  of funds was to be for a mixture of uses  repairs/home  improvements and 
replacing furniture;  an emergency fund; money  gifts to family members.   It was detailed that 
they didnt have any savings to use for these purposes and didnt want to borrow the money 
in a way that would necessitate them making  monthly payments as they had a limited 
income. 
It was detailed that Mr and Mrs P had discussed releasing equity from their home with their 
daughter and all close members of their family.  Their attitude toward the risks of the 
mortgage was detailed as them being  prepared to accept the risk of eroding all of the equity 
in their property for the benefit of having  as much  capital as possible at that time.
A mortgage was advanced on 12 January 2004 for an amount of £112,000. The interest  rate 
was 7.49% per annum  and an ERC applied to the mortgage for 22 years in the event the 
mortgage was repaid  before death or the need to move into residential  care.  
Mr L was appointed as Mrs Ps attorney  in 2014.  He complained  about  the advice 
Mr and Mrs P had received from Aviva. Aviva  responded to the complaint in December 
2018. It explained how a lifetime mortgage  worked and what  the sales  process consisted of. 
It reviewed the documented circumstances and needs, and concluded there had been 
nothing wrong  with the sale. It rejected  the complaint.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld.  He 
considered the advice  was suitable based on Mr and Mrs Ps needs and circumstances at 
the time of the sale. 
Mr L didnt accept the investigators  conclusions. He highlighted  that there was no evidence 
of Mr and Mrs P having seen their solicitor as part of the process.  He also questioned the 
reason documented for Mr and Mrs P wanting the mortgage to go through  quickly  Mr Ps 
health  as Mr P didnt  die until 11 years later. 
Mr L said that when  it came to the property being  sold, he didnt see how Aviva could justify 
taking £365,000 from an elderly  and vulnerable  widow, given the original loan was only 
£112,000. He didnt consider it was ethical and it impacted on the choices he had to make 
when moving Mrs P into long-term  care. Mr L asked that the complaint be passed to an 
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN40962712The complaint was passed  to me and, upon review of the file, I requested  a document that 
was missing from Avivas file. Aviva then provided a copy of the SHIP certificate, which  is the 
document Mr and Mrs Ps solicitor  completed  when  it finished  its part of the process. That 
being for the solicitor to ensure they understood the mortgage contract. A copy  was sent to 
Mr L who commented that it would have been  helpful if Aviva had provided this document  to 
him when  he asked. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has effectively questioned whether Aviva did its due diligence before selling this 
mortgage to Mr and Mrs P. All a financial or mortgage adviser can do is ask a consumer 
what they need and want to do, what resources they have and what their circumstances are. 
Aviva did that and documented the answers it received in the fact find document  it 
completed at the time of the sale. I have seen nothing wrong with the process it used or the 
information it obtained from Mr and Mrs P.
That information said that they wanted to help their daughter (and some other members of 
their family)  financially. They also wanted  some money to spend on their home and replace 
some of their furnishings. They had no assets or income available  to do this other than the 
home their owned. Alternative options to raise funds were  considered  and discussed,  but 
Mr and Mrs P didnt  want to move home and didnt have the income  to support the other 
options available.  So equity release appears  to have  been the only option available  to 
Mr and Mrs P at the time.  I have seen nothing that indicates the mortgage  was not suitable 
for them and their circumstances at the time.
It was documented  that Mr and Mrs P had discussed  the option  to release equity from their 
home with their daughter and other relatives.  I note that Mr L has said it wasnt  discussed  
with him or another beneficiary. It was Mr and Mrs Ps choice who they discussed  the 
concept with or whether to discuss it at all. Many consumers decide not to, and it is their 
choice. It wouldnt be appropriate for Aviva  to have told anyone  about the confidential 
discussions or arrangements made with Mr and Mrs P.
Mr L has questioned  one of the reasons for the equity  release because he has said 
Mr and Mrs Ps property  was in good condition. I dont  think  whether the property needed 
repairs or not can be evidenced  now, but what I can say is that Aviva was entitled  to rely on 
what Mr and Mrs P told it at the time. Avivas adviser  would have  explained at the beginning 
of the first interview the importance of accurate information and it was not for Aviva  to 
question whether Mr and Mrs P were  telling the truth about  their circumstances after that.
It has also been questioned whether there was a need for the mortgage to go through  
quickly. Whilst Mr P may not have died for many years after the sale of the mortgage, I note 
that he did have  a very serious illness. In the circumstances  it wouldnt be unusual that a 
consumer would want to get their affairs  in order. I dont think the urgency expressed  in the 
documentation indicates anything was wrong with the advice or the sale of the mortgage.
Mr Ls concerns about whether Mr and Mrs P saw their solicitor  as part of this process have 
been allayed  by the provision of the SHIP  certificate.  It is somewhat disappointing  that this 
document wasnt included in the file given to this service, but Mr L now has a copy of the 
Ref: DRN40962713relevant document for his records. However,  I would  comment for information purposes only,  
that whilst  the scheme Aviva was a part of required it to ensure this happened,  that scheme 
was voluntary. There was no regulatory or legal  requirement for it to be done  at the time. 
I note that the documentation from the time of the sale and the mortgage terms and 
conditions were all produced on Norwich Union letterhead. Aviva is simply a name  change  
and doesnt have any effect  on our consideration of this complaint. 
Mr L has said that he feels it wasnt ethical  for Aviva  to take almost all of the sale proceeds 
from the property when it was sold. I cant comment on the ethics  of lifetime mortgages as it 
isnt my role to do so, but the amount  owing  on such mortgages can be considerable by the 
time a property is sold as the interest rolls up. It appears that Mr and Mrs P were aware that 
that all of the equity  in their property could be taken up by the interest and decided to move 
ahead with that knowledge.  I can appreciate that it would have been difficult for Mr L to be 
constrained financially when making  decisions about  Mrs Ps care, but I cant  find Aviva did 
anything wrong  in taking what was owed  to it under the mortgage  contract.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr L (acting as Mrs Ps attorney)  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4096271