K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Revolut Ltd requested information about a transaction before allowing 
the payment to go into his account.
background
In May 2019, Mr H sold an item and the purchaser  paid him by bank transfer into his Revolut  
account. Before  Revolut released  the funds to Mr H, they contacted  him to ask some 
questions. They wanted to know the full name, address and country of residence of the 
payer.
Mr H challenged Revoluts request for this information, particularly as the transaction was of 
a low value. He made a complaint to Revolut  about  their process.  A few days  later,  Mr H 
provided the information they had requested and the funds were credited to his account. But, 
as he was unhappy with Revoluts approach to the situation, he instructed them  to close  his 
account. 
Mr H brought a complaint to this service.  He queried the basis  on which  Revolut were  
entitled to request information from him about  the purchaser. He said it was unreasonable  
and that he couldnt be expected to know the buyers personal details. Mr H wanted an 
apology and compensation  for the distress he says this situation caused him.
Revolut said that they have policies  and procedures in place for administering accounts, 
making funds available and identifying fraud. They said that all payments may be subject to 
their usual fraud checks and that they may perform additional checks if they think it 
necessary. They said their terms and conditions allow  them to do this. Here, they say their 
security system had flagged the payment into Mr Hs account and they decided that 
confirmation of the payers details was needed for them to release the funds. 
Our investigator thought that Revolut  had acted fairly so she didnt ask them  to do anything. 
But Mr H didnt agree  and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  He 
says that Revoluts terms are vague  and that, as their customer, he cant  be expected to 
collect information about every person who transfers  money  into his account,  especially for 
low value transactions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point  here is that its right for Revolut to have security  measures  and procedures  
in place to safeguard customers accounts and prevent fraud so far as possible. As to 
exactly what those procedures are and how theyre carried  out, thats a matter for Revolut to 
decide. But, having put a fraud detection system in place, when it flags up a transaction as 
potentially suspicious,  its reasonable  for Revolut to act on that.
In this case, Revolut  requested the name,  address and country of residence  of the payer.  I 
think that request  falls within  the scope of their terms  and conditions  and I think  it was 
reasonable here. I note Mr Hs point that he cant be expected to know  the personal details 
of everyone who might  make a payment into his account. But he was able to provide that 
information in this case, just a few days after it was requested. Unfortunately,  its in the 
Ref: DRN43625162nature of security checks like these that they sometimes  cause inconvenience  for some 
customers. I realise that Mr H is unhappy  about the situation, but I dont  find that he suffered 
any significant adverse  consequences as a result  of Revoluts  request  here.
The fact that none of the previous transactions on Mr Hs account have been picked up by 
Revoluts security system doesnt  mean  it was wrong to highlight this one. Its for Revolut to 
decide what factors their system should look at when screening transactions.  And I havent  
seen anything which suggests it was used unfairly or incorrectly  here.  So Im not going to 
ask Revolut to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4362516