K820x#14complaint
Miss H has complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has unfairly
recorded a fault claim  against her car insurance  policy. Shes also unhappy that LV failed to
investigate the claim  and her concerns when she first queried it.
background
Miss H made a claim  for repairs to her car under her policy  with LV. In March 2018 while her
car was being repaired; she received a hire car to use.
When the hire car was collected, the hire car company made  a claim to LV for scratch
damage to the hire car which it said was caused  while Miss H was using it.
LV settled the hire car companys claim. The repairs cost £209.63.
In September  2018 Miss H received a renewal  invite from LV. She complained that LV
hadnt updated her about  the claim since shed called  to dispute it in March 2018. Miss H felt
LV hadnt  properly investigated the claim.
LV apologised. It said it could have done  more  to investigate the claim at the time.
However, having reviewed the claim it said the outcome would have been the same.  Miss H
had signed two forms  when she received the hire car and when  it was picked up. The form
on delivery of the car recorded no damage. But the hire car agent identified a new scratch
which he noted on the collection form and made Miss H aware of. As Miss H signed the
collection form, LV decided to settle the claim.
LV accepted that it failed  to call Miss H back in March 2018  when she first queried the claim.
For this poor service, LV offered Miss H the option to buy back  the claim. So if Miss H
wanted to pay the repair  costs of £209.63, LV said it would remove the recording of the fault
claim and record it for information purposes only. And LV said Miss H needed to only pay
£150 toward the £209.63 costs in order for it to be removed as a fault claim. In other  words,
LV would cover the remaining £59.63 of the claim costs by way of compensation to resolve
her complaint.
Miss H wasnt  sure if LVs offer seemed reasonable. So she asked us to look at her
complaint. Our investigator agreed  that LV had dealt with the claim reasonably.  But she felt
the compensation LV offered was too low. She said this was because not only did it fail to
keep Miss H up to date with the way that it was handling the repair  claim, but it missed
opportunities to address and mitigate the impact of the complaint Miss H made in March
2018, and the situation was escalated when the insurance came up for renewal.
So the investigator recommended LV pay Miss H £150 compensation  and she thought it
fair for Miss H to decide to offset that against the remaining repair  costs.  The investigator
also recommended  that  if LV had charged a higher premium  as a result  of the fault claim at
renewal in September 2018, it should recalculate  the premium  and provide  a refund if
appropriate.
LV didnt agree. It said when Miss H called it to discuss  the claim in March 2018, LV made
her aware that it would deal with the claim and that it would have an impact on her premium.
While it agrees it could have investigated the claim further before reaching  its decision 
ultimately what it told Miss H was correct and the outcome remained the same.
Ref: DRN41504272LV said its offer to allow Miss H to pay the repair costs of the claim isnt one it would usually
give  as her contract was with the hire car company.  So any dispute  she had about the
claim could  have been directed to them. It explained that Miss Hs No Claims Discount
wasnt affected by the claim as it was protected. But of course  if the claim had any impact
on her renewal premium, LV would refund any overpaid premium  should Miss H decide to
accept its offer to buy back the claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 August 2019. I thought the outcome of the claim would 
have been the same if LV had called Miss H back in March 2018. So I thought what it had 
offered to put things right was reasonable.  
Miss H didnt agree. She said the weather  conditions were  poor as it was raining when the 
car was delivered to her. She said the agent who picked up the car took a photo of the 
scratch on his mobile phone but it didnt  use this evidence in the paperwork it sent to support 
its claim. 
Miss H said she doesnt recall LV telling her the claim might have an effect  on her premium.  
LV has referred  us to the report the car hire company provided to LV. This included  pictures 
of the scratch  to support their claim. So the case has been passed back  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive considered Miss Hs further  
comments. But I think LVs decision to settle  the claim was reasonable. Ill explain why.
Miss H said the delivery agent didnt go around  the car with her before she signed the first
agreement form. She said it was raining and early evening. Miss H doesnt  feel the hire car 
company agent  followed  the correct process.
We dont decide  liability as this is the role of the courts. But we can look at whether  an
insurer properly investigated a claim and reached  its decision in a fair and reasonable way.
LVs policy has a term which Ive seen in most  if not all motor  insurance policies. So I dont
think its unusual. This term allows LV to settle  a claim  as it sees fit. This means  that Miss H
might not agree with LVs decision  but the policy  allows LV to do this. We dont  disagree
with this in principle, provided LV can show its treated its customer  fairly.
Miss H signed an agreement form provided by the hire car company to reflect the
condition of the hire car when she received it and when it was taken back.  A new scratch  
was identified on collection  of the hire car which wasnt identified or reported on the delivery 
form. 
The photos  the hire car company sent to LV show the scratch  - which Miss H accepts was 
pointed out to her before  she signed  the collection form. So even if the photos arent the 
same as the photos  the agent  took on his mobile phone, I think the overall evidence LV 
received was enough for it to reach a decision. I understand Miss H doesnt know how the 
scratch got there. But I think LVs decision to pay the claim was fair based on the information 
it had and in line with the policy.  
I know Miss H is unhappy about  the impact the claim may have had on her premium at
renewal. But even if LV had made further  enquiries  in March 2018,  I think it would have
Ref: DRN41504273recorded the claim in the same way. So I think the outcome would have  been  the same.
This means  I think  LVs decision to record the claim as a fault claim was reasonable.
So the remaining  issue is whether LVs offer is fair to resolve Miss Hs complaint about the
poor service it gave her. Miss H spoke  to LV twice on 22 March  2018 to dispute  the claim
from the car hire company.LV has provided  recordings of the key calls it had with Miss H. In 
the first call, I think LV managed Miss Hs expectations as to the outcome of the claim. The 
agent explained that based on the evidence  it had, LV would settle the claim  and it may 
affect her premium at renewal. In the second call, LV said it would investigate her concerns 
further and it would reply  to Miss H. But LV failed to do this.
I think LV should have  replied to Miss Hs concerns  and it should have updated Miss H
when it settled the claim. I can see that Miss H called LV again in September 2018 when she
received her renewal notice. In my view,  LVs poor service is in its failure to reply to Miss Hs
concerns in March  2018. This is the issue which LV could  have  prevented having an impact
on Miss H. But I havent seen anything to suggest that Miss H has been caused  distress and
inconvenience for the five months  in between.  So I think  a fair and reasonable level of
compensation for the impact  LVs poor service had on Miss H is in the region of £50  in line
with similar  awards which we give. This amount is close to the reduction in the claim  costs
LV has offered Miss H. I think Miss H was put to some time and trouble in the calls she
made to LV in March and September  2018. But as Ive said, although Miss H didnt think  she
was responsible for the scratch damage, I think LVs decision was reasonable.
LV has confirmed that if Miss H pays £150  toward the costs of the repair claim and it
updates her claims history, it will review  the premium Miss H paid at renewal in September
2018 and  if a refund is due  it will refund Miss H. I think  given the delay in replying to
Miss Hs concerns, its reasonable for LV to pay interest on any refund it pays  Miss H at a
rate of 8% simple interest from the date she paid her renewal  premium  in September 2018 to
the date it pays  the refund. If Miss H accepts LVs offer to buy back the claim at a reduced
amount but is unhappy with the revised  renewal premium, she can raise this as a new
complaint with LV.
Overall I think  LV has done enough to resolve Miss Hs complaint. Its for Miss H to let LV
know if she wants to accept its offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I think  Liverpool  Victoria  Insurance 
Company Limiteds  offer for Miss H to buy back the March 2018 fault claim at a reduced 
amount of £150   and to adjust the renewal premium from September  2018 if appropriate - 
is reasonable to compensate Miss H for the poor service it provided. Its for Miss H to decide  
if she wants to accept  the offer.
If she does, I think LV should  pay interest on any refund due as a result of the claim being
changed from a fault claim to a notification only at a rate of 8% simple  interest a year.  This
should be payable  from the date Miss H paid her renewal premium in September 2018 to the
date Liverpool  Victoria  Insurance Company Limited pays  the refund.
If Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue
& Customs to withhold  income  tax from any interest it pays, it should tell Miss H how much
its taken off. It should also give Miss H a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN41504274Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4150427