K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy that their buildings  insurance claim has been  turned down by 
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited.
background
Mr and Mrs O had a leak from a skylight in their property. The incoming water caused 
damage to the wallpaper and carpets around  the skylight. In September  2018  Mr and Mrs O 
claimed against their buildings insurance policy with Lloyds.
Lloyds sent a surveyor to look at the damage. The surveyor concluded that this wasnt storm 
damage, but damage caused  by due to wear  and tear. Because  Mr and Mrs Os policy  
excludes this, Lloyds turned down the claim.
Mr and Mrs O have complained that their claim has been turned  down, and they dont see 
the benefit of having  insurance if its not going to pay out for damage. Since the claim was 
declined, Mr and Mrs O have had the skylight fixed.  But they would  like Lloyds to cover the 
cost of this repair, and also pay for the damage  caused by the water coming in.
Our investigator found Lloyds had acted fairly. She said that the insurance didnt cover  wear 
and tear. She felt the damage wasnt consistent with storm damage but wouldve happened 
over a long period of time. Because of this she felt that Lloyds didnt need to cover  the costs  
of repair.
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree with the investigator  and have asked for an ombudsman to review 
their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Mr and Mrs O were unable to say exactly when the storm damage had occurred. Ive seen 
the insurance policy and this says Lloyds consider a storm to be violent weather such as 
strong winds of 55mph  or more, torrential rain, heavy snow or hail that causes damage to 
hard surfaces or breaks glass. Lloyds have also said they consider more  than 15mm of rain 
in one day to be torrential.
While there  was no weather that met this definition in the period of time Mr and Mrs O said 
the damage mustve  occurred, Lloyds did note one day with 13.6mm  of rain. Because of this 
they sent a surveyor  to look at the damage. Given how close  the actual volume of rain was 
to Lloyds definition,  I think it was reasonable of them  to consider the claim and send a 
surveyor out. 
The insurance policy also says well take into account the condition  of your home  as a well 
maintained building should  withstand  all but the most severe weather events [and] make 
sure your home is in a good  state of repair or you may find that the damage has been 
caused as a result of wear and tear, and not something your insurance covers you for.
Ref: DRN45943722Ive seen the surveyors report on the damage.  This says there was no evidence of storm 
damage, but there was evidence the roof was poorly maintained with slipped tiles, cracked 
slates and defective  flashing. It also says there was evidence of wood rot in the skylight  
timbers, which would  indicate a long term water  leak and damage building up over a period 
of time. The report also contains  photographs  that support the comments  about the roof and 
skylight timbers.
While I appreciate that Mr and Mr O wont agree with me on this, I think  it was reasonable for 
Lloyds to rely upon the surveyors report as the surveyor was an expert who had physically 
inspected the damage.  The surveyor said that the damage was wear  and tear and not storm 
related, and I havent seen anything that shows  me this opinion  is clearly wrong. Mr and Mrs 
Os insurance policy clearly excludes  damage  caused by wear  and tear, so I dont think  
Lloyds did anything wrong by turning down this claim. So I wont be asking them  to cover the 
costs of the skylight repair or the damage  to the wallpaper and carpets.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint against  Lloyds 
Bank General Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 November  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4594372