K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  about the difficulties  she had in getting a replacement  debit  card for the 
account she holds  with The Co-operative Bank Plc.
Ms B is represented by her grandson, Mr B.
background
In August  2018  Ms Bs debit card was kept by an automated  teller  machine (ATM). A day 
later she was admitted  into hospital. So Mr B got in touch with Co-op to order her a new 
card. Co-op said it couldnt take instructions from Mr B as he didnt  have authority. Mr B 
explained he didnt  want access to Ms Bs account; he just wanted a replacement  card 
ordered. Not having her card meant  she had to borrow money  from friends and family. 
Co-op said it didnt  have authority for Mr B to act on Ms Bs behalf  and so couldnt take 
instructions from him. It said Ms B would need to phone or write in, as she had previously 
done, to request a new card. 
Mr B said Co-op should have automatically  sent a new card when Ms Bs old card was kept 
by the ATM.  He also complained that it shouldve take instructions from him considering  the 
circumstances and that withholding her card meant withholding access to her money.  As 
such he considered  this to be theft and fraud.
Ms B brought her complaint to this service.  One  of our investigators  looked into things and 
said Co-op had acted fairly in not taking  instructions  from anyone  but Ms B. And that Co-op 
wouldnt be required to issue a new card automatically when one was retained by an ATM. 
Ms B didnt agree and so the case has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding it. 
Having looked  at the terms  and conditions of Ms Bs account Im satisfied Co-op wouldnt 
automatically issue a customer with a new card if one was taken by an ATM. So I dont  think  
Co-op was required  to do anything differently when Ms Bs card was taken.
The terms of the account also say someone else can operate the account on the customers 
behalf if they have a third party mandate in place or a Power  of Attorney. Mr B didnt have 
either of these in place.  But he says Co-op  should  have  been more empathetic.  I can 
understand why Mr B says this as Ms B was without money for a period of time.
However terms and conditions such as these are put in place to safeguard customers. They  
ensure actions arent taken on the account without the customer  knowing and details or 
cards dont fall into the wrong hands. So while I can understand how frustrating this situation 
was for Ms B and Mr B, I think  Co-op  acted fairly and reasonably by refusing to issue  a 
replacement card until Ms B made  the request.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN45464322Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Kinjal Vadgama
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4546432