K820x#14complaint
Mrs Os complaint against TSB Bank  plc is about  what happened when she was unable to 
make a transfer between  two of her accounts.
background
Mrs O visited  a TSB branch twice on 15 February 2019 to transfer £2000  from her ISA to her 
current account. She needed the funds in her account that afternoon  to pay for a holiday. 
Due to problems with TSBs system, they were unable to make  the transfer. 
The branch  manager offered to approve  an overdraft on Mrs Os current  account to cover  
the amount she required. He said TSB would waive any charges and interest.  Mrs O 
declined that option and said TSB should  be able to resolve things without her needing an 
overdraft. 
Mrs O called TSBs telephone banking team to make  a complaint. During the call, Mrs O 
said shed had to make other arrangements  to pay for the holiday. To resolve  her complaint, 
TSB agreed  to pay Mrs O £9 to cover her call costs, and £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience shed  been caused.  
Mrs O called TSBs telephone banking team again the next morning.  They explained that 
their system had been fixed at about 7pm the previous day. The call handler  made  the 
transfer for Mrs O while she was on the line. Mrs O was unhappy  because  she said the 
branch manager  had agreed to make  the transfer  once  the system was working again. 
The call handler said shed reopen  Mrs Os complaint. 
The branch  called Mrs O around midday to ask if she still needed to make  the transfer,  but 
she told them shed already done it via the telephone banking  team.    
Mrs O complains about TSBs actions. Shes unhappy that the branch manager was only 
able to offer her an overdraft, which she didnt want. And the branch said theyd carry out the 
transfer as soon as possible, but didnt call her until around  midday on 16 February. 
Mrs O also says TSB didnt reopen her complaint as theyd  said.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt think TSB needed to do 
anything more to resolve  Mrs Os complaint. She said Mrs O hadnt  incurred any financial 
loss and TSB had paid her compensation as soon as shed made a complaint. 
Mrs O disagrees  with our investigators response and has asked for an ombudsman to make 
a final decision.  She says TSB didnt do anything  they said they would, and have caused her 
stress and anxiety.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  that the problems with TSBs  system  prevented Mrs O from transferring the 
funds she needed.  Mrs O had to make alternative  arrangements to pay for her holiday, and 
TSB accept this caused her distress and inconvenience.  So the key thing I need to look at is 
whether TSB should do anything more to put things right.
Ref: DRN41107852I can understand that it must have been  very inconvenient for Mrs O not to be able to make 
what should have  been a simple transfer  to pay for her holiday. She spent a long time on the 
phone to TSB on 15 February,  and had to call the following day as well. Ive listened to 
Mrs Os calls and heard how frustrating  it was for her. 
Ive also taken account of what Mrs O has said about the branch not making the transfer as 
soon as they could. But the branch did call her about  midday on 16 February, soon after 
shed arranged the transfer via the telephone banking team. I understand that Mrs O thinks 
the branch should have made the transfer or called  her first thing that morning, but I dont  
think it was unreasonable for them to call by midday.  
I can understand why Mrs O feels strongly  about what  happened  and how TSB handled her 
complaint. But its not our role to punish  businesses. Where something  has gone wrong, we 
look at the impact its had and whether  what the business has done to put things right is fair 
and reasonable.  
Mrs O didnt lose out financially from what happened, and TSB agreed to compensate her on 
the day the problems arose. And overall I think the amount TSB have paid is fair and 
reasonable to compensate Mrs O for her call costs, and the trouble and upset caused to her. 
I realise this wont be the decision Mrs O was hoping for, but I wont  be asking TSB to do 
anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I consider TSB Bank plcs offer to 
pay Mrs O a total of £59 in compensation to be fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4110785