K821x#15complaint
Ms T has complained that Santander Cards UK Limited  (Santander)  cancelled an insurance 
policy linked with a store credit account  without  her permission after she had previously 
complained that the policy had been mis-sold. Santander has accepted that it made  an error 
when it arranged to cancel Ms Ts policy and has offered her £50 for any trouble and upset it 
caused. But Ms T doesnt believe  this is sufficient compensation. She wants  Santander to 
reinstate the policy and ensure she is paid for any successful claims she may make. 
background
I sent Santander and Ms T a provisional  decision on this complaint on 28 March 2019. That 
provisional decision now forms part of this final decision and I have  attached a copy.
In my provisional decision,  I set out the background and circumstances of the complaint and 
I explained why I thought  that Santander  had given Ms T incorrect information about  
cancelling her policy. I described the compensation I thought it should pay her. I asked both 
parties to send me any further comments and evidence they wanted me to consider before I 
made a final decision.  In particular, I invited them to tell me if they thought the way I was 
proposing that Santander should  calculate  compensation  for Ms T was unfair.  I also asked 
Santander to work  out the compensation that would be payable using the approach I 
proposed and to provide details of its calculations to us and to Ms T. 
I understand that Santander did not send its calculation to Ms T directly, but we have told 
her how much its calculations show she would be due. 
The period  of time I gave for responses  has now passed. Both parties have responded and 
neither believes  my provisional decision to have been fair. 
In outline, Santander does not think I should uphold  the complaint. It thinks its previous offer 
was fair. Ms T does not think  that the way I proposed that Santander should  calculate  the 
compensation was fair. She thinks she is entitled  to much more  than Santander has 
calculated. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive looked into everything that Ms T and Santander  have told us or sent us about  the 
complaint, including the points they have raised  since my provisional decision, and I have 
decided to uphold  it without changing the way I think Santander should  calculate fair 
compensation. I explain why below. 
When Santander responded  to my provisional  decision, it made three  main  points:
It explained that its normal process  is to cancel any policy when a customers 
complaint (about  mis-sale) is upheld.
It argued that Ms T hasnt lost out on anything as the correct  outcome was reached.
Ref: DRN40264652It pointed out that the insurance  was there to help with repayment  of store-card 
related costs and not a supplement for meeting  daily living  expenses.
It has also reiterated that it believes that its offer of £50 was reasonable for the error it made.
And when  Ms T responded, she also made  three main points:
 
She believes the cover the policy provided  was for life. 
She thinks the figure for compensation which Santander has calculated is too low 
and unfair because it isnt based  on items (she) actually purchased.  Shes also told 
us that she didnt  use the card regularly, so some  months there would be no claims 
then lots of claims in other  months.
.
She thinks that before she brought the case to us she put a lot of time and effort into 
trying to sort things  out and that the compensation I proposed  in my provisional 
decision isnt sufficient  to cover  this. 
Neither Santander nor Ms T have said anything  in their responses to my provisional  decision 
to change my understanding of the factual background or overall circumstances of the 
complaint, so I wont repeat the same  analysis here. Instead, I will explain why I am not 
changing my provisional findings on the complaint by taking Santanders and Ms Ts latest 
points in turn. I will start with Santanders concerns: 
Santander has said its normal  process is to cancel policies where it upholds mis-
sale complaints 
I accept this and I said in my provisional decision that this is a common industry 
practice. However, the heart of Ms Ts complaint is that Santander  cancelled  the 
policy despite telling her it was still active and would  remain so unless she took 
steps to cancel it. This point is not in dispute.  Santander has acknowledged its 
error.
I accept that Santanders error was accidental, but once it had departed  from 
part of its normal approach, which would have been  to tell Ms T it was arranging  
to cancel the policy, then it had placed  Ms T in an unusual situation.  So I dont 
think it would  be fair for Santander to continue as if everything was still normal. 
Santander has said that it doesnt think that Ms T has lost out 
I disagree. 
In my provisional decision,  I said that I thought Ms T had lost out on insurance 
cover and possible claims for the period up to 16 May 2018. I accepted that I 
didnt know how much she may have lost; but I outlined how Santander could 
reasonably estimate  this. Santander has now done  this and I consider thats its 
own calculations show that Ms T did lose out. 
Ref: DRN40264653Santander has said that the insurance  was there to help with repayment of store-
card related  costs and not as a supplement for meeting daily living  expenses. 
I agree  that the insurance was in part intended to help Ms T with costs related  to 
her card. But as I mentioned in my provisional decision, one of the policys  
benefits was that under  certain conditions it insured policyholders against  the risk 
that the store may reduce  the prices of articles after a customer had bought 
them. So the claims Ms T made were against  one of the risks for which  she was 
insured. Im satisfied that the way she used both the card and the policy  were in 
line with the relevant terms  and conditions. 
Turning now to Ms Ts concerns:
Ms T thinks the cover  was for life 
The crux of Ms Ts point here is that she believes her insurance cover should  
continue indefinitely.
I referred to this briefly  in my provisional decision,  but I also set out why I thought 
it was reasonable  for Santander  to cancel the policy after it upheld  Ms Ts 
complaint that the policy had been mis-sold.  I said that I didnt think Santander 
owed Ms T anything beyond 16 May 2018.  I have  not seen or been told anything 
to change my mind on this. 
Ms T thinks that the figure Santander has calculated for compensation is too low 
In my provisional decision,  I said that Santander  should compensate Ms T for the 
period when it wrongly led her to believe that her insurance policy was still live. I 
explained that it wasnt clear how long this period  lasted, but I was satisfied that 
it had ended by 16 May 2018. 
I went on to say that I didnt know how much, if anything, Ms T would have been 
entitled to claim if the policy had been in force until 16 May 2018.
I accept Ms Ts comments that she may have used  her card more in some 
months than in others, but the approach I proposed  was based on her average 
usage over three years, so it should  give a fair estimate of the successful claims 
she would  probably  have been able to make in the period up to 16 May 2018. 
I accept that the approach I proposed can only ever give an estimate. Ms T has 
told us she has receipts  for the goods she bought with the card and has sent us 
a list of these from 2016, 2017 and 2018.  But the receipts dont show if the store 
has, or will, reduce its prices for these goods  and if so when and by how much;  
so I dont believe that they can reasonably be used to provide a more objective  
or fair estimate than the approach I described  in my provisional decision. 
Ms T has suggested that Santander  could check if the store  had reduced any of 
the relevant prices. But I dont think it would be reasonable  for me to ask 
Santander to do this for all the articles Ms T bought; and Im not going to do so. 
Ref: DRN40264654Im satisfied that the approach I set out in my provisional decision for calculating  
the amount Santander should pay Ms T in compensation is fair. I am not going  to 
change it. 
Ms T thinks that Santander should pay her more because  she has put a lot of 
time and effort  into her complaint
When Santander originally offered Ms T £50, it didnt  believe that she had lost 
out financially  due to its mistake. But it said it was making the offer because it 
acknowledged its error and wanted  to apologise for any upset  it had caused  to 
Ms T. 
I accept that Ms T may well have spent a considerable amount of time and effort 
in gathering information about her complaint and explaining it to Santander. But I 
dont think Santanders  error caused  her highly significant distress or 
inconvenience and I think its offer of £50 for any upset it caused is fair. I am not 
going to change it. 
However, from some of Ms Ts correspondence  with us, it seems that my 
provisional decision may have led her to believe that I was proposing  to include 
Santanders offer of £50 (the upset money) in the amount she lost out by not 
being able to claim on the policy  up to 16 May 2018 (the claims money). So to be 
absolutely clear, in my provisional decision I was proposing that if Santander 
hadnt already  paid the upset money  to Ms T, it should do so, in addition to the 
claims money. This is still my position. 
So in conclusion, I still think Santander  made  an error when it cancelled Ms Ts policy  but 
told her it was still live, and should put things right by paying her compensation. And I 
believe the way of calculating compensation that I proposed in my provisional  decision is a 
fair and reasonable way to do this in the particular  circumstances  of this complaint. 
putting things right 
If Santander hasnt  already  paid Ms T the £50 for upset which  it offered  previously,  it should 
now do so, and additionally it should:  
A.Look back at the amounts Ms T claimed on the policy for price protection  cover for 
the three previous years before May 2018,  between 1 October and 16 May each 
year. 
B.Work out the average amount Ms T claimed during these three periods.
C.Work  out how much  Ms T would  have  paid in premiums  if the policy  had been  live 
until 16 May 2018,  but didnt  pay as the policy  had been  cancelled.  
D.Work  out how much  (if anything)  Ms T actually  received  in successful  claims  between  
1 October  2017  and 16 May 2018.  
E.Deduct  the amounts  at C and D from the amount  at B.
Ref: DRN40264655F.Add simple  interest  at the rate 8% per year to the amount  at E from 16 May 2018  until 
the date of payment  and pay this amount  to Ms T (+). 
(+) HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Ms T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
If Ms T accepts this decision, then Santander should set out its calculation  for her fully and 
simply so she can see how it has worked  things out. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above and in my provisional l decision,  I am upholding Ms Ts 
complaint against  Santander Cards UK Limited.  It should pay her the fair compensation I 
have described  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN40264656copy of provisional decision
complaint 
Ms T has complained that Santander Cards  UK Limited  (Santander)  cancelled an insurance policy  
linked with a store credit account without her permission after she had complained that the policy  had 
been mis-sold. Santander  has accepted that it made some errors when  it arranged  to cancel Ms Ts 
policy and has offered her £50 for any trouble and upset it caused.  But Ms T doesnt believe  this is 
sufficient compensation. She wants Santander to reinstate the policy and ensure she is paid for any 
successful claims  she may make. 
background
One of our adjudicators  has already looked into this complaint  and thought that Santanders  offer was 
a fair way to resolve it. Ms T disagreed and asked  for an ombudsman to review her case, so it has 
come to me to consider.
my provisional  findings  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive looked into everything that Ms T and Santander have told us or 
sent us about her complaint  so far, and I currently intend to uphold it. I explain why below.
Ms T opened her credit account to make purchases at a high-street store and she took the insurance 
policy at the same  time. The policy provided  several  benefits. It would  insure Ms Ts repayments if 
she was made  redundant or was off work  sick, and if the store  later reduced  the prices  of articles that 
she had bought, she would  in certain  circumstances be able to claim  a refund for the difference in 
price. This last benefit was called price protection cover. 
Santander upheld  Ms Ts mis-sale complaint, but as she had received more  in claims from the price 
reduction cover than she had paid for the policy, it didnt  give her any financial compensation. It also 
arranged for her policy to be cancelled.  
Ms T is not now complaining  about the mis-sale  itself and I have only looked  at evidence about it 
which directly  affects  the complaint about cancellation of the policy.
Santander has told us that if it upholds  a mis-sale complaint about  an insurance policy like Ms Ts 
which is still running, then it usually arranges  for the policy be cancelled so that no further premiums 
are payable. 
In the mis-sale complaint,  Ms T had said that she would not have taken  the insurance if Santander 
had told her about it; and if this service upholds  mis-sale  complaints about insurance policies similar  
to Ms Ts then subject  to consumers accepting what we say, we usually  tell businesses to cancel  the 
policies. This is in order to put consumers  back into the positions they would have been in if they 
hadnt bought the policies and stop them  from having to pay more for policies  which were  mis-sold. 
So Im not surprised  that Santander arranged  for Ms Ts policy to be cancelled.
But, when Santander sent Ms T its final answer  on her mis-sale complaint in October  2017,  its letter 
said that the insurance was still active and wrongly told Ms T that if she wanted to cancel it she should 
contact her card provider. 
Ms T has also told us that she made a phone call to Santander during February  2018 when she says 
Santander told her that it wouldnt cancel the policy if she faced any financial difficulties. Santanders  
records show  that the call took place and that after it had finished it sent Ms T a further copy of its 
letter from October 2017. But it doesnt have a recording  of the call or any detailed notes, so I dont 
Ref: DRN40264657know for certain what was said.  But from what Ms T has told us, I think its unlikely that Santander let 
her know clearly that the policy was cancelled. 
Santander has accepted  it made an error  in the letter, and although its brief records of the phone call 
dont mention any discussion about cancellation it has offered Ms T £50 for any trouble  and upset  it 
may have caused her.
However, Ms T does not believe that Santanders offer is fair. She has told us that she first noticed 
from her account statements that the policy  may have been cancelled during November 2017 and 
questioned it during December  2017. Shes told us that she continued to use her card during this time 
on the understanding that she could claim on the price protection cover if the store  reduced its prices  
for the goods she bought. She has also mentioned that she thought the policy  would have lasted for 
life and has said that she had intended to use it for another  twenty years. 
In my view Santander behaved reasonably when it arranged for the policy to be cancelled. I think it 
understood from Ms Ts mis-sale complaint that this was what she wanted it to do, and it was 
following a common industry practice. But I wouldnt have expected Ms T to have been aware  of this 
practice and I think Santanders letter and the phone call probably mis-led her. Santander has told us 
that its mistake  was due to human error and wasnt intentional, and l fully accept this. But I think  Ms T 
lost out as a result. 
Ms T has told us that she would have bought fewer or cheaper goods  from the store if she had known 
that Santander  had arranged for the policy to be cancelled, and I accept her argument about  this. So I 
think Santander should compensate Ms T for the period  when it wrongly led her to believe that the 
policy was still live.
Its not totally clear  how long this period lasted, but Im satisfied that it had ended  by 16 May 2018 
when Ms T contacted us. By that stage,  Ms T was aware  the policy had been cancelled and that she 
would no longer  be able to claim  under  it. So I dont think Santander owes her anything beyond this 
date.
putting things  right 
I dont know how much, if anything, Ms T would  have  been entitled to claim if the policy  had been in 
force until 16 May 2018,  or whether Santander  has already  paid her the £50 for trouble and upset 
which it offered  previously.  
So, if Santander hasnt  already made the trouble and upset payment I propose to tell it to do so; and 
then to:
A.Look  back at the amounts Ms T claimed on the policy  for price  protection  cover for the three 
years up to May 2018 between 1 October and 16 May each year.
B.Work out the average  amount  Ms T claimed during these  three periods.
C.Work out how much  Ms T would have paid in premiums if the policy had been live until 16 
May 2018, but didnt pay as the policy had been cancelled.
D.Work out how much  (if anything) Ms T actually received in successful claims  between 1 
October 2017 and 16 May 2018.
E.Deduct  the amounts at C and D from the amount at B.
F.Add simple interest at the rate of 8% per year to the amount at E from 16 May 2018 until the 
date of payment and pay this amount  to Ms T.
Ref: DRN40264658Ive proposed the periods  at A above as I think theyre likely to give a fair picture of Ms Ts relevant 
claims history. I invite Ms T or Santander to tell me if they believe that isnt the case, and explain why. 
I also ask Santander to work  out the compensation payable using  this approach, before  I issue a final 
decision, and to provide details of its calculations  to us and to Ms T. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Santander  to take off tax from this interest. Santander must give 
Ms T a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision 
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I currently intend to uphold Ms Ts complaint against Santander 
Cards UK Limited and to tell it to put things right in the way I have described. 
I now invite  both parties to respond  to my provisional  decision by 28 April 2019 I will consider any 
responses I receive before making a final decision.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4026465