K822xcomplaint
Mr Os complaint is about the suitability of advice he received from Best Practice  IFA Group 
Limited (Best Practice IFA) to transfer  his personal pension  into a self invested personal 
pension (SIPP). 
background 
The investigator set out the background in her view issued on 1 November 2019. Ive 
recapped most of it here.  
At the time of advice  in March 2011,  Mr O was 53 years old. He intended to retire  at 65. His 
earnings were around £56,000 pa and he had rental income of £8,400 pa. The fact find 
completed in February 2011 recorded that he had a portfolio  managed by a discretionary 
fund manager  (DFM) with a value of £185,000 and £50,000 in a deposit account. He had a 
personal pension  with a major provider which was valued at around £45,000 and invested in 
a with-profits fund.  The notes to the fact find said Mr O was considering  an investment in 
alternative assets, possibly land abroad.
Best Practice IFA issued its suitability letter and switch report on 24 March  2011. It included 
a comparison of what Mr Os fund might  be worth at retirement if he retained his existing 
pension and what he might get if he transferred. 
Mr O was advised to transfer  his pension to a SIPP with the money  left in cash to be readily 
accessible for when  he decided to invest. Mr O incurred a market value adjustment (MVA) of 
£1,135 on his existing pension. The SIPP application was signed on 8 April 2011.  Mr O 
signed the suitability report on 11 April 2011.  
In May 2011  Mr O invested  £7,000  in Physical  Gold, around £13,000 in Caracola  Beach 
Resort (Caracola), an overseas property investment, and about  £13,000 in PropFund  
Germany, another overseas property  fund. A further investment in Halcyon Hills (which was 
also an overseas property development) was made  in late May 2011 for around  £7,500.  The 
investments in PropFund Germany were recouped  and around £15,000 was returned to the 
SIPP by August 2015. Mr O also received some payments into his SIPP  from Halcyon Hills 
in 2012 and 2013.
Mr O was paid £10,000 as tax-free cash in October  2015.
A report completed by Mr Os SIPP provider confirmed that, as of 1 August 2017, the 
Caracola investment should be valued at £1. As a result, Mr O complained  about  the 
suitability of advice  he had received from Best Practice  IFA.
Best Practice IFA sent its final response  letter in November 2018.  It didnt  uphold  the 
complaint. It said the advice was suitable as Mr O wanted to invest  more speculatively.  
Mr O referred  his complaint to us. Our adjudicator  upheld it. In summary:
She referred to the alert issued  on 18 January  2013 by the then regulator about  
advising on pension transfers  with a view to investing pension  funds in unregulated 
products. Where advice  is given  on a product which  is a vehicle for investment in 
other products  (such as a SIPP),  suitable  advice required consideration of the overall 
position, that is the wrapper and the underlying investments. Where a customer  
Ref: DRN46905232seeks advice on a pension transfer  in implementing a wider investment strategy, the 
advice must  take account of the overall investment strategy the customer  is 
contemplating.
The alert post dated  the advice. But it wasnt new and was aimed at reinforcing the 
existing principles for regulated firms. Best Practice IFA simply stated that Mr O was 
interested in investing  in alternative  investments  such as land abroad. That sort of 
investment would usually be unregulated,  high risk and illiquid.
Mr O had other monies he could use in retirement but hed also have relied on the 
pension Best Practice IFA advised  him about and which was his only pension 
provision. The suitability letter said he was looking to adopt an adventurous or 
speculative risk profile in his retirement planning. But there  was no evidence  that a 
robust risk profiling exercise was completed. His existing pension was invested in a 
with-profits fund. How his DFM portfolio was invested wasnt recorded. Based on 
what shed seen,  the adjudicator thought  Mr O was a medium risk investor. Given  his 
age and that hed need to rely on his pension in retirement, it wasnt appropriate to 
transfer to a SIPP to invest in unregulated  investments.  
Best Practice IFA charged  Mr O an advice fee of £1,200. Hed also be paying a 
further £600 plus VAT a year in SIPP fees. The costs associated with the 
investments werent considered in the suitability report. The illustrations were 
incomplete. Based on the figures  that should  have been given the transfer wasnt  
justified. Thered be no benefit in transferring from a relatively safe environment  of a 
with-profits investment with a mainstream provider to a SIPP  with a relatively new 
provider to invest in unregulated investments. Suitable advice  would have been  to 
retain Mr Os existing  pension. 
The report said Mr O was unhappy  with the performance of his existing plan. The
returns werent very high.  But that didnt justify recommending  a transfer to facilitate 
unregulated investments.
The investments  exceeded  Mr Os risk profile  and capacity for loss. He may have 
made the investments himself  Best Practice IFAs name wasnt  shown on the 
investment applications. But it did liaise with the SIPP administrators about the 
investments. Best Practice IFA had a responsibility  to assess the underlying 
investments when advising on a transfer  to the SIPP. It recommended  the transfer  
knowing Mr O was intending to invest a large proportion of his pension fund in 
unregulated investments. The adjudicator  also referred to the regulators July 2010 
report into unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS). The adjudicator wasnt 
certain all the funds were UCIS. But they had similarities and were  unregulated. 
Mr O was a medium  risk investor  with limited  investment experience. And not with 
unregulated investments. All of his pension was invested in that type of fund, which 
was far in excess of the percentage pointed to by the regulator  as an example of 
good practice limiting  exposure to such investments. Mr O would have been aware 
the investments  had some degree  of risk but he relied on Best Practice IFA to 
recommend the transfer on the basis that it was not only consistent with his attitude 
to risk but also suitable for his wider  circumstances and capacity for loss.
Mr O was recorded as having an adventurous attitude to risk. But that wasnt 
consistent with how his only pension had previously been invested  or his other 
Ref: DRN46905233investments. He didnt  have a high capacity for loss. His share portfolio had been hit 
by the credit crunch. He couldnt afford to take an adventurous approach with
his only retirement savings.
The adjudicator set out how Best Practice IFA should redress  Mr O. She later wrote  to the 
parties making a small adjustment to reflect the fact that Best Practice  IFA wasnt  the adviser 
responsible for the SIPP from 12 December 2012.  Mr O didnt have a regulated adviser after 
then. Any investment hed made after that date should  be treated as a withdrawal so that it 
stopped accruing growth in the redress calculation from that point on. She added that losses  
shouldnt be capped at that point because  the investments were illiquid. 
Mr Os representative said Mr O would prefer compensation to be paid direct to him and not 
into the SIPP as he wanted to wind it up as soon as practicable. 
Best Practice IFA didnt agree with the adjudicators view and made  the following points:
The adjudicators  view didnt  fairly  represent  Mr Os intentions  at the time or his 
appetite to take risks with his pension  in return for greater returns.
Theres no evidence it provided  advice on the investments  it was Mr O who 
ultimately elected to invest as he did. He must  bear some  responsibility for making 
the wrong investment choices. Its unfair that he can enter into an arrangement  to 
make better gains but, when  that doesnt  work out, complain that someone else is 
responsible for the loss.
Mr O didnt have significant  wealth but he had savings  and his net worth,  excluding  
his pension fund,  was around  £335,000. His income wasnt  inconsiderable (£56,000  
pa) and he had rental income of around  £8,500  pa. He was very clear what he 
wanted to achieve  and that to meet his desired income in retirement he was going to 
have to be speculative  with this pension, particularly as he didnt plan to contribute to 
a pension going forwards. 
He hadnt  invested similarly  in the past.  But all the evidence points to him wanting to 
do what he did. Best Practice IFA didnt solicit the business and Mr O wasnt unduly 
influenced.
Taking into account his other assets  (including  cash in the bank, a balanced DFM 
share portfolio,  his rental property)  it wasnt unreasonable to invest  £40,000 more  
adventurously.
He wasnt intending to make any further  contributions and was clearly  unhappy with 
the return on offer. Saying he wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital 
and that hed have remained in his existing plan is at odds with his stated aims.
The reasons  why letter evidences Mr Os concerns with his existing plan. He hadnt 
gone into the investments with his eyes shut. The investment did represent a 
gamble which  has gone wrong. But at the time he was able to make a suitably 
informed choice. The investment wasnt presented  to him unfairly and he was willing  
to accept a substantial level of risk with this part of his savings and investments.
The adjudicator considered what Best Practice IFA had said but she didnt change her view. 
She said Mr Os only pension  savings  had been transferred into a more expensive  plan to 
facilitate unregulated investments and without considering  the alternatives available within  
his existing plan.  If the funds  didnt match his attitude to risk, a fund switch should  have been 
recommended.
Ref: DRN46905234my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator and for the reasons she gave that Mr Os complaint should be upheld. 
In reaching the conclusion  Ive considered carefully  all Best Practice IFA has said about  why 
that outcome  is unfair. 
Mr Os position,  when he sought  advice from Best Practice IFA, may have been  that his only 
pension fund was modest and wasn t going to be sufficient  to meet his needs in retirement.  
He considered he had to invest  speculatively,  in the hope that hed see some real gains. 
Best Practice IFA describes whats happened as a gamble  which went  wrong and for 
which Mr O is responsible. But Mr O had sought professional advice about his pension.  It 
was up to Best Practice IFA to give suitable  advice and not just facilitate whatever Mr O 
thought he might want to do. 
Best Practice IFA says Mr O is seeking  to blame  others for his investment decisions. Best 
Practice IFA may not have advised  about the proposed investments. But it should have 
considered them. As the regulator s alert makes clear, to give suitable advice on the 
transfer, the proposed investments needed to be considered  too. I dont think  Best Practice 
IFA can say the investments were, or should  have been, Mr Os responsibility. Especially if 
Best Practice IFA should have advised  Mr O against  investing  as he did. 
Mr O may have  signed the investment  application  forms  himself but the adviser did liaise  
with the SIPP provider about the investments. Its clear he knew what Mr O was investing  in. 
Even if the particular investments and amounts werent decided until after the SIPP had 
been set up and the transfer made, the adviser  knew from the outset that Mr O was looking  
to invest in alternative  assets, possibly  in property abroad.  
Mr O may have  had some  investment experience. But his share portfolio was managed  by a 
DFM so he wouldn t have  made  his own investment decisions. He had no experience of non 
mainstream, unregulated  funds. Such  investments are often unusual, complex and with 
multiple risk factors. They  often involve gearing  (borrowing) which can boost returns but also 
magnify losses. Illiquidity  may be another issue. Best Practice  IFA should have pointed out 
the risks of investing  as Mr O was contemplating and that there was a significant risk he 
could lose all the money hed invested. 
Best Practice IFA argues that it might  not have been unsuitable for Mr O to invest this 
portion of his overall wealth more adventurously. He did have savings,  a share portfolio and 
a healthy income.  But Best Practice IFAs advice was confined to Mr Os pension  plan. Best 
Practice IFA didnt explore with Mr O how his DFM  portfolio was being  managed  and 
whether, taking that and his other assets  into account, he could afford  to take a higher level 
of risk with his pension.  In any event, even taking into account  Mr O had other assets, Im 
not convinced  it would  have been suitable  advice to invest the majority of his only pension  
provision in higher  risk or speculative  funds.
I dont think  it was suitable advice  to recommend that Mr O transfer  so that he could invest in 
unregulated investments. 
Best Practice IFA might say that Mr O might still have wanted  to go ahead, despite advice 
against. But hed gone to Best Practice IFA for professional advice for which he was paying.  
Ref: DRN46905235I dont immediately see why hed have been  prepared to disregard that advice. If hed still 
wanted to go ahead,  Best Practice IFA would  have needed to have treated him as an 
insistent client, that is one who wanted to proceed  despite advice to the contrary.  Im not 
sure if Best Practice IFA would  have  been  prepared to act on that basis. Even if it was, 
theres a process that needs to be followed,  including recording Mr Os reasons for wanting 
to go ahead despite advice to the contrary.  I think that would have made Mr O think  again 
about whether  it was a good  idea to proceed against professional advice. 
I dont think  redressing Mr O on the basis hed remained  in his existing plan is unfair or 
unreasonable. Best Practice IFA has pointed out that isnt consistent with his stated aims. 
But I think Best Practice IFA should  have  addressed  those with Mr O and whether adopting  
a speculative approach to his only pension provision was wise.  Mr O did express some 
unhappiness with his existing plan and its performance. But the purpose  of the transfer was 
so that he could invest as he was planning. If the transfer didnt go ahead,  the proposed 
investments fell away. 
In that scenario Im not convinced hed have done anything with his existing plan. Its 
possible he may have  switched funds. But thats not certain and its difficult to ascertain  now 
which fund(s) hed have  selected. All in all I dont think the adjudicator s suggested redress, 
on the basis Mr O would  have simply left his pension where it was, is unreasonable.  Ive 
adopted it below.  
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr O as close as possible to the position hed probably  now be in if hed 
been given suitable advice. I think hed have retained his existing pension  plan.  Im satisfied 
what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable. To compensate Mr O fairly  Best Practice  IFA 
should:
Compare the performance of Mr Os investment (his SIPP) with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, theres a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no compensation 
is payable.
If theres a loss it should be paid into Mr Os pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect  of 
charges and any available tax relief.  It shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If Best Practice IFA is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Os pension  it should be paid 
direct to him  and thats his preference as he wants to close the SIPP  (and in which case  
further SIPP fees will be avoided). But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided  a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The notional 
allowance should  be calculated using Mr Os actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his 
selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr O is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. If he would have been able to take a tax 
free lump  sum, the reduction should  be applied  to 75% of the compensation. As Ive set out 
above my understanding is that Mr O took tax free cash in 2015.
Ref: DRN46905236In addition, Best Practice IFA should pay Mr O £300  for trouble and upset  for the disruption
to his retirement planning. And provide details of the calculation to Mr O in a clear, simple  
format.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date) to 
(end date) additional 
interest
Mr Os 
SIPP mixedNotional  Value 
of the 
Prudential 
PlanAssuming  Mr 
O had 
remained in 
the plandate of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date,  an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value
should be assumed  to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. Best Practice  IFA should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  
provider. This amount  should be deducted  from the compensation  and the balance paid as 
above.
If Best Practice IFA is unable to purchase the investment the actual  value should  be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Best Practice IFA may require Mr O to 
provide an undertaking to pay Best Practice IFA any amount he may receive  from the 
investment in the future.  That undertaking must  allow  for any tax and charges that would be 
incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. Best Practice  IFA will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  Mr Os existing plan would have been worth at the end date had it remained
in force.  Best Practice IFA will need to contact  the provider to obtain  the notional  value. Any 
additional sum paid or investments returned  into the SIPP should be added to the fair
value calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income 
or other distribution out of the investment should  be deducted from the fair value at the point 
it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the calculation from that point on. If 
there is a large  number  of regular payments, to keep calculations  simpler, all payments can 
be totalled and deducted at the end instead  of deducting periodically. Any investments made  
after 12 December 2012 (when Best Practice IFA ceased to be Mr Os adviser) should  be 
treated as a withdrawal.  
why is this remedy suitable?
In my view Mr O would  have retained his existing  pension  plan had Best Practice IFA given 
him suitable advice.
fees
The SIPP largely  exists  because of the Illiquid investments. For the SIPP to be closed and 
further SIPP fees avoided, these investments need  to be removed.  But if Best Practice  IFA 
Ref: DRN46905237cant buy them and the SIPP  provider is unwilling to close the SIPP, Mr O will be faced with 
future SIPP fees. I think its fair to assume  five years of future  SIPP fees. So, if Best Practice  
IFA cant buy the investments and the SIPP cant be closed, Best Practice  IFA should pay an 
amount equal  to five years of SIPP fees based  on the current tariff. Thats in addition  to the 
compensation calculated using a nil value  for the investment.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Best Practice IFA Group  Limited must redress  Mr O as Ive set out 
above 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4690523