K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that a motor home he has been financing through  an agreement  with Black 
Horse Limited (Black Horse) has not been  of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr N took receipt of a used motor home  in April 2018. He financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with Black Horse.  At the point of supply the motor  home was about 11 
years old and had already  completed 27,000 miles.
Mr N has had some problems  with the vehicle. The following faults were repaired before he 
contacted Black Horse:
electric step fault;
radio fault;
fault with the reverse  camera;
magnetic strip on blind and table repaired.
He obtained a report from another garage  who identified  that a vibration in the vehicle was 
due to worn gearbox  mountings and when he complained to Black  Horse they arranged an 
independent inspection which identified some delamination of the flooring  and a failed locker 
alarm. A subsequent  independent inspection took place in early 2019 when Mr N 
complained of problems with the glow plugs, clutch and 12 volt supply but the inspector 
could not replicate the issues that were complained of. 
Black Horse  accepted responsibility for the delaminated floor and the failed locker  alarm. 
They asked Mr N to obtain  quotes so they could have them  repaired for him. They  also 
noted hed complained about a problem with the cruise control  but they didnt support this 
aspect of his complaint  as they said the independent inspector hadnt been able to replicate 
it. They offered to pay Mr N £250  compensation in recognition of the distress  and 
inconvenience hed been caused.  But Mr N was dissatisfied with their response, he wanted 
to reject the motor home and he therefore referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator thought Black  Horse had done all he would expect of them. He noted that 
they were only responsible for issues that were present or developing at the point of supply  
and he thought some of the faults that had been identified could be considered normal wear 
and tear on a vehicle  of this age and mileage.  He didnt think  any of the mechanical 
problems with the vehicle had been evidenced and, overall, he thought Black Horse had 
identified the issues they were responsible  for and that they were right, in the first instance, 
to offer to repair them. He therefore didnt think Black Horse needed to take any further 
action.
But Mr N disagreed with the adjudicator and he therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN42257182I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr N so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr N acquired  his motor home  under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase 
agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and as a result our service  is able to 
look into complaints  about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the vehicle should have been  of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Black Horse, who are also the supplier of 
the vehicle, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory if 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would  consider satisfactory  taking into 
account any description of the goods,  the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this the other relevant  circumstances  would likely include things like the age, 
mileage and price at the time the motor home was supplied to Mr N. The vehicle  here was 
around eleven years old and had travelled 27,000  miles. I think in a vehicle of this age a 
reasonable person would expect quite  a lot of wear  and tear.
Mr N has already had some repairs completed under warranty. The relevant legislation 
would allow Black Horse an opportunity to resolve  faults that were present or developing at 
the point of supply. I think  the evidence from the first independent inspector suggests the 
delamination and locker  alarm are faults  that were most probably present or developing 
when the finance agreement began  and Black Horse are therefore right to offer to repair 
them. 
But Im not persuaded they should replace the gearbox mountings as I think  its most likely  
these are an example  of what  a reasonable person would consider to be wear and tear. 
Ive considered the other issues Mr N has complained about, some of those were  the subject  
of the second  independent inspection. Ive reviewed  them all but I dont think  there  is 
evidence here of any further  work  that would not be considered  to either  be normal wear and 
tear i.e. some seat corrosion or that hasnt  been evidenced/replicated i.e. the cruise control 
fault. 
Black Horse  has offered  to pay Mr N £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
hes experienced. I think thats  reasonable in the circumstances as hes clearly been 
inconvenienced having to take the vehicle  to be repaired and I can understand that the 
issues would  be distressing for him and his family.  
So, overall, I think Black Horses offer to provide repairs to the delaminating floor and the 
locker alarm, and to provide £250  in compensation, is fair. Ill not be asking them to do 
anything more.
Ref: DRN42257183my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4225718