K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  when  he took out a credit card.
background
Mr R took out PPI in 2003 when he applied for a credit card.  Both were done  at the same 
time using  a postal  application. But Mr R says he also had a phone call with Barclays.
At the time Mr R was employed  and he told us his was entitled  to six months full sick pay and 
six months half pay. He said he had around  £5,000 in savings and life and critical illness cover. 
He also said he had no health problems at the time.
The policy provided  cover  for accident and sickness, unemployment and death  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  up to 10% of Mr Rs credit  card balance in 
the event of a successful  claim for accident  and sickness or unemployment. And it would do 
so for up to 12 months per claim. At the time, it cost 79p per £100 of the monthly outstanding 
balance. The premium  would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did 
attract interest. 
In summary  Mr Rs representative raised  the following  complaint  points  on his behalf:
Mr R was told he had to have  PPI during a phone call  it wasnt optional
because there was a phone  call this was an advised sale
he had substantial employment benefits  which mean he didnt need PPI
there are no documents available such as a demands and needs form  so the 
complaint should be upheld.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the mis-sale complaint should be upheld. They said Mr R 
chose to take out the cover and there  wasnt anything to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for him. But they said Barclays offer in relation to high commission  and profit 
share was fair in the circumstances.
Because the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and published some  example final decisions that set out in 
detail how these relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Rs. I dont intend  to 
set that out in this decision, but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs complaint.
Having done so, and carefully considered the information provided by both parties to this 
dispute, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs mis-sale  complaint.  Ive set out my reasons below.
did Mr R know  he had a choice?
Barclays needed to make it clear to Mr R that PPI was optional. Mr R says that Barclays 
didnt  he says he was told during a phone call that PPI would be included and advised  it 
was not optional. 
Ref: DRN48014112Barclays says this was a postal sale  it has no record of a phone call taking  place. 
Ive firstly  seen a copy of Mr Rs postal credit  card application that he completed to take out 
the credit  card.  I can see here that under the heading Optional benefits Mr R was asked if 
he wanted PPI  he was given two equally prominent options: Yes  to take out PPI or No to 
decline it. Mr R ticked the Yes  box.
The application didnt  say or imply PPI was a condition of the card  Ive already  said it was 
described as one of the optional benefits   and being presented  with Yes and No options to 
tick, Im not persuaded Mr R wouldve thought  or was reasonably led to believe that he had 
to have it.
While I hear what  Mr R says about  a phone call he had Barclays  during  which  he says he 
was advised PPI wasnt optional, Ive not seen anything to support what  Mr R says 
happened  I think this was more likely than not a sale solely  by post.
So taking everything into account, I think Barclays presented the policy  to Mr R as being 
optional and he agreed to take it out without undue  pressure.
did Barclays provide  advice?
Barclays says it didnt  provide advice during this sale.  Mr R says it did provide advice and he 
refers to the phone call I mentioned above.
Given what Ive said above about  how the sale likely  came  about, I dont think this was an 
advised sale. Ive not seen anything  within the card application, which  makes me think that 
Mr R was led to reasonably believe that hed been  given advice. Rather Barclays  alerted  Mr 
R to the fact that he could take out the policy and gave him information  about it.
So looking  at what happened when  Barclays sold Mr R the PPI, Im satisfied it did not 
provide advice.
This means  Barclays didnt have  to check if the PPI was suitable or right for Mr R. But it did 
have to give him enough clear and timely information about  the policy so he could make an 
informed decision about it.
the information
Ive already said Barclays has provided us with Mr Rs credit card application. It has also provided 
the policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance  of probabilities  applied to policies 
like Mr Rs. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr R at the time, I dont think Barclays  gave Mr R the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
The application didnt  say much about PPI  instead it directed Mr R to accompanying 
information to find out more.
Ref: DRN48014113I think the information provided  would have given Mr R a broad  sense of the main  things the 
policy covered and that it wasnt  free  the application itself said it was protection against 
unemployment, accident, sickness and death.  And given Mr R was completing  the 
application in his own time,  I think  its reasonable to assume he wouldve paid more  attention  
to the written  information provided than for example in a face to face meeting where  more  
reliance might be placed on the spoken  word of an adviser. I dont think Mr R wouldve 
decided to take the policy out knowing nothing about what he was ticking  for.
But it was Barclays responsibility  to draw to Mr Rs attention the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations, which might be relevant to his decision. 
Im not persuaded Barclays did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of 
the policy was made  clear  to Mr R, including the need to maintain  premiums during a claim 
or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  I cant  see that Barclays  adequately 
drew to his attention the main provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
So I dont  think Barclays gave Mr R sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy. 
what effect did Barclays shortcomings have  on Mr R? To what extent did Mr R suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr R. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr R suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr R would have 
still taken out the policy  had Barclays done  things properly. 
Ive already said this wasnt an advised  sale. So it was for Mr R to weigh up in his own mind 
the cost of the policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt 
insure against the risk of being unable to work.
Ref: DRN48014114As Ive found above, Mr R chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But I accept 
Mr R made  this decision based on incomplete information. So Ive gone on to consider Mr 
Rs circumstances at the time to help me decide whether he wouldve  still taken  out PPI in 
any event or acted differently had Barclays done anything  more. And having done so, I think  
its likely  Mr R wouldve  still gone ahead with PPI in any event. I say this because:
Mr R was eligible for the cover;
he was employed  and in good  health, so he wasnt  affected  by the key things the 
policy didnt cover - for example for existing medical  conditions or unusual  
employment circumstances.
Mr R appears  to have suggested he had two jobs at the time. But Im mindful that 
hes given us different  information about  his employment at different times,  so Im 
not entirely persuaded by what hes said. And in any event, because the cover was 
described on the application  form as unemployment  cover, I dont think  Mr Rs 
expectations about what that meant and what he thought was covered differed from 
how the policy operated in reality.
Mr R said he had existing means at his disposal  more  than six months  sick pay 
and some savings. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to these and wouldve 
done so for up to 12 months per claim.  And because  the monthly benefit was 10% of 
the outstanding balance,  there  was the potential for the balance  to be cleared in full. 
And as Ive already said, Mr R chose to take the cover out so he must  have had 
some interest in the protection  rather than wanting to solely  rely on his existing 
provision.
So I still think Mr R wouldve  found the policy  useful  and it wouldve helped  him meet  
his card payments  at what would likely be a difficult and perhaps uncertain time.  
Mr R didnt know everything  about  the cost,  but it appears to have been affordable.
So, I think Mr R had some  good reasons to take the policy out. The evidence about  Mr Rs 
circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for him; 
he was eligible for its benefits;  and it provided  cover that, despite its limitations and 
exclusions could have  proved useful to him should  the insured risks have become a reality.
conclusion
Overall and having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider it 
more likely than not that Mr R would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently 
close to what he thought he was getting  and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit 
in a difficult time, notwithstanding  the employment benefits hed likely have received and his 
other means. And in those circumstances  I consider  it more  likely than not that Mr R would 
have taken out the policy in any event. 
It follows that I dont think Mr R has suffered loss to the extent he should get back  everything 
he paid for PPI.
But Barclays  has offered  to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
Ref: DRN48014115Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr R, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has offered  to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should  also pay back to Mr R any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
So Barclays  should  re-work  the credit card account and pay back  to Mr R the difference 
between what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Mr R 8%* simple  
interest if he paid off his credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr R can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr R any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4801411