K820x#14complaint
Mr E says Lloyds Bank PLC (trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold him 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996. If 
Mr E had made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment,  it 
would have paid his monthly mortgage repayments  for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Es case.
Where, as in this case, the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive  I need  to decide what  
I thinks most likely  to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Es complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds no longer has copes of all the paperwork Mr E signed when he took out the 
mortgage and PPI. I wouldnt expect Lloyds (or C&G) or Mr E to have kept these records  
for so long, especially as the mortgage account was closed  around  15 years ago. And 
I cant fairly rely purely  on what Mr E might be able to remember about the sale after 
such a long time.
In order to uphold  the complaint, Id need to conclude that its more likely than not that 
Mr E wasnt  given  a clear choice about whether to take the PPI, or that it was added to 
his mortgage account without his consent.  But I cant  safely reach this conclusion, based  
on the limited information I have.
The mortgage was a serious long-term financial commitment. Mr Es home  would have 
been at risk if the mortgage  payments werent kept up to date. PPI provided a 
dependable means of ensuring that his monthly repayments were protected  even if he 
couldnt work. So, I can see why he might  have felt PPI was useful cover. Its completely 
understandable that Mr E might  have forgotten some of the details from the sale.  On 
balance, I think  its most  likely that he was persuaded of the need to protect  his home  by 
taking out PPI, and that it was added to their mortgage at his request.
Mr E and Lloyds agree that the policy was sold during a meeting, and that Lloyds 
recommended the PPI to Mr E. This means  it had a responsibility to check that it was 
suitable for him. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based  on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time.
Ref: DRN48147042I acknowledge that Mr Es told us that hed have been entitled  to six months full pay, 
followed by six months half pay from his employer  if hed been  off sick. But the policy 
would have paid out in addition  to any payments Mr E received from his employer, and 
potentially for longer than hed have been  entitled to full pay for. Mr Es also mentioned  
that he had significant  savings at the time. Hes explained  that they were easily 
accessible. But having the PPI would have removed the need to use his savings to make  
his mortgage payments if hed made  a successful  claim. So he could have left his 
savings intact,  or used them to meet other  expenses.  Taking everything into account, 
I think the PPI could  have been  useful to Mr E.
It may be that Lloyds  could have explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But it 
was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing  to suggest that Mr E couldnt afford it. So 
even if Lloyds had given Mr E clearer information about the cost,  I think  its more likely  
than not that hed still have bought  it.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover (for example, 
unusual working  arrangements  or existing medical  conditions). But from what  hes told 
us about his circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mr E would have been affected by 
any of these. So I dont think better  information  about them  would have put Mr E off 
taking the policy  out.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4814704