K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2006. Mr and Mrs O say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them  the MPPI. 
Mr and Mrs O were sold a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). TMPP can be split into 
sections, namely Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of MPPI), Life Cover and Critical 
Illness Cover (CIC).
Mr M and Ms G have complained about the MPPI  cover so Ive only looked  at the sale of the MPPI  
element of the package in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Os case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs O say that they dont really  remember  much from the time that the policy was sold 
as it was so long ago. BoS hasnt been able to provide paperwork from the sale,  but this isnt 
unusual given the date of sale  but it has been  able to show that its sales  process  at the time 
presented the MPPI as an optional product  and that it gained proper consent to take out the 
policy. I havent seen  anything to suggest  that BoS did anything differently when it sold the 
policy to Mr and Mrs O, so I think its most likely BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs O didnt 
have to take out the MPPI  and that they chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
they cant remember this.
BoS recommended the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs O so it had to check that the MPPI was right 
for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI 
cover and they seem to have  had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs O about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But as I think they chose  to take it out - it looks  like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs O have said - but these  points dont change  my 
decision.
This means  I dont  think the MPPI was mis-sold. So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs O paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr and Mrs O back  some of 
the cost of the MPPI.  I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs O now Ive issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN49920152my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4992015