K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs B. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2004 at the same time that Mrs B signed up 
for a credit card in a shop.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mrs B has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. This is 
because:
 I can see that the application  form set out the PPI as a choice, and I can see that 
Mrs B had signed in the PPI section of the form to take PPI  though it isnt surprising if 
she doesnt remember this now, almost 15 years  later. 
 It doesnt seem that FICL recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for 
Mrs Bs individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mrs B to decide  whether it was suitable.
 However FICL did need  to give Mrs B clear  and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice.  And I dont think the information on the form was as clear and full at it 
should have been   and I dont  know that fuller  information, if any, was given  
separately. So Ive thought about  whether  better information is likely to have made  a 
difference. But in Mrs Bs circumstances at the time,  even if shed been given all the 
necessary information, I dont think its likely  to have made a difference to her decision.  
I say this because  its fairly  likely that the PPI could have paid out for longer than her 
full employer sick pay lasted.  And it would have been in addition to any employer sick 
pay or redundancy pay. Also its not clear she had many  alternative means  she could 
rely on, to pay her living expenses  and credit account for long, if she lost her income; 
and even if she did, she could have kept that in reserve  for longer. So the PPI is likely  
still to have seemed  potentially  useful.  Also it doesnt look like shed have been 
affected by any of the significant  exclusions in the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN42000732Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4200073