K820xUKI14complaint
Mr S complained about how U K Insurance Limited  settled another  drivers claim against his 
motor insurance policy.
background
Mr S was involved  in a collision  approaching  a roundabout, which he felt was the other 
drivers fault. But the other driver said it was Mr Ss fault. UKI proposed  settling it on a split 
liability basis, but Mr S was unhappy about that. He said he wasnt to blame and his 
dashboard camera (dashcam) footage  proved this.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that his complaint  should  be upheld.  He felt that UKI had 
acted reasonably on the evidence they had and that they were entitled  to settle his case  as 
they did. Mr S remained unhappy and so his case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the adjudicator explained  to Mr S, we dont  decide who is at fault for causing an accident, 
as this is the role of the courts. Instead,  we simply investigate whether  an insurer has acted 
fairly and reasonably, and in line with their policy terms  and conditions, when they decide 
who was responsible. Its common for insurance  policies to allow  insurers to settle any claim 
against a policy as they see fit and they can do so whether the policyholder  agrees with 
them or not. Insurers are entitled to make a commercial decision about whether it is 
reasonable for them to contest any claim or better  for them to settle it. Ive looked  at Mr Ss 
policy and see that UKI does have this discretion in his case.
Mr S thought  the other  driver was to blame  for entering his lane and his dashcam footage 
showed this. But the other  driver  said that Mr S was at fault as he cut across the other  
drivers path and hit his car. UKI looked  at the dashcam  film and thought that it showed that 
the third party  was proceeding correctly when Mr S changed lanes and collided with the third 
party. They told him they proposed to settle the claim on split liability  basis, and in the end, 
they did that, to avoid  litigation. 
Mr S said he used  the roundabout a lot and knew what lane he should be in, and that his 
GPS coordinates on the dashcam show that he was in the correct lane. But, as the 
adjudicator explained, GPS co-ordinates  dont show where one car was in relation to other  
cars, and drivers are expected to be aware of other  drivers around them. He also thought,  
having looked at the dashcam  footage,  that the lane markings were  not clear  at the collision  
site, and it looked like both cars were heading for the same lane at the same time.  
Ive also looked  at the dashcam footage, and I agree that its not clear  who is at fault.  I would 
repeat however that Im not deciding who is at fault - thats not what this service does. I am 
looking only at whether, on the evidence UKI had, it was reasonable for UKI to settle it on a 
split liability basis. And I think that it was. There were  conflicting accounts of events, no 
independent witness  evidence, and the dashcam  footage is not conclusive as to who was at 
fault.   
Ref: DRN41147252We think that insurers are entitled  to consider  the prospects of success  against  the costs  
and risks involved in court proceedings. In this case I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI 
to decide that they could not be confident  of winning  in court,  and so they settled it. And, as 
UKI settled  on a without prejudice  basis, this means that Mr S still has the option of taking 
legal action against the other driver should he want to. 
I do see that Mr S feels very strongly that he was in the right,  but I think  that UKI acted fairly 
and reasonably when they settled the case  on the evidence they had. And, as they havent  
done anything  wrong, I dont  ask them to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons,  Ive given above  its my final decision that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before1  June 2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4114725