K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains Mapfre Asistencia, Compania  Internacional  De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A 
havent paid to repair his car under his mechanical  breakdown insurance policy.  
background
Mr R discovered  an oil leak from his car. He took the car to a manufacturing garage who 
said oil was leaking from between the engine and gear box and that rear main oil seal 
needed replacing. Because of this Mr R contacted Mapfre to claim on his policy. 
Mapfre rejected Mr Rs claim, they said as the rear main oil seal had deteriorated it hadnt 
had a sudden  and unexpected failure,  as defined  by the policy.  They  said theyd been told 
the part which had failed was sealant rather  than a seal, and that the policy  didnt cover  
failures that were  the result of wear and tear. 
As Mr R disagreed he complained. Mapfre said the oil leak was not a sudden  failure and 
would have been progressive,  they also said it was due to wear and tear and not covered by 
the policy. Mr R disagreed with Mapfres decision and brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Rs complaint and recommended  it was upheld. He found that 
Mr Rs car had suffered  a breakdown as defined by the policy  and that the policy  had been 
extended to cover the parts which had failed. As there wasnt  enough evidence  to show the 
parts had reached the end of their life, he didnt think it was fair and reasonable to turn down 
Mr Rs claim because of wear and tear. Our investigator asked  Mapfre  to pay Mr R the 
amount hed paid for the repair,  he also asked  Mapfre  to add 8% simple  interest  per year to 
this amount. 
Because Mapfre disagreed the complaint has come  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs policy  covers him for the sudden and unforeseen failure of a Component or 
Components arising from any permanent  Mechanical or Electrical defect, (for a reason other 
than wear and tear, normal deterioration or negligence) causing complete  stoppage of its 
function, necessitating immediate repair or replacement of the Component(s) before normal 
operation can be resumed.
The policy also extends cover to oil seals and gaskets; it says it covers  Camshaft seals,  
front crank oil seal, drive shaft oil seals, gearbox  rear seal and differential  pinion  oil seal.  
Also covers  any seal or gasket  where  removal of the engine,  gearbox  or differential unit is 
essential to effect  a repair.
The part which needed replacing  on Mr Rs car was the rear main  oil seal and the sealant 
which is between the engine and gear box. Mr Rs policy extended  cover  to any seal or 
gasket where removal  of the engine or gearbox is needed for repair.  At the point the seal 
stopped providing a seal and oil began  to leak Im satisfied was sudden  and therefore  not 
progressive. As the sealant between the engine and gearbox needed replacing or repairing 
Ref: DRN44010302to work properly again Im satisfied the parts are covered and meet the policy definition of a 
sudden mechanical  failure. 
I now need to decide whether the fault with Mr Rs car was a result of wear and tear. I can 
see the exclusions on Mr Rs policy say it wont cover a failure  if its a result wear and tear. 
Mapfre said the issue is the result of wear and tear as this is what with the repairing garage 
said when they spoke. Mapfre said they were  advised the seal had deteriorated  over time 
because of the age and mileage of the car. 
Ive listened to the call between Mapfre and the repairing  garage  and Mapfre  ask about  the 
fault and theres  a discussion about the exact  cause of the leak.  The garage explains the 
rear main oil seal needs replacing and there are two plates with sealant  between them which  
is then bolted  together.  The garage  says its this sealant which is causing the leak.  Mapfre 
then say the sealant must have just aged as well then mustnt it? to which the garage reply 
err yea I think its just a plate which is bolted up. Mapfre then explain because of this there 
isnt anything they can do then and say the claim isnt covered. From listening to this call Im 
unable to agree the garage say the fault with Mr Rs car is because of wear and tear and the 
part has reached  the end of its normal working  life. 
Mapfre also refer to a report  to show the part failed  due to wear and tear. Weve asked 
Mapfre for a copy of this report and they provided  a copy of their internal systems  which say 
the seal has deteriorated with age and mileage of the vehicle. Mapfre hasnt said what the 
normal working life is for this part or checked this with the garage during the call. Our 
investigator spoke with a different manufacturing  garage to find out what  the life expectancy 
of this part is and was told there  isnt a definitive life expectancy. Im not persuaded its fair to 
rely on this term if the part has failed prematurely. The manufacturing garage hasnt been  
able to say what  the normal  working life is or suggested this part needs  repairing on cars of 
similar age and mileage to Mr Rs. Im therefore  not persuaded this part has reached then 
end of its normal working life, therefore its fair and reasonable for Mapfre  to cover  the claim. 
As Mapfre rejected  Mr Rs claim he paid the repairing garage £2572.46 for the repairs. 
Mapfre should pay Mr R this amount minus  any excesses, in line with the policy terms. Also 
as Mr R has been without  the money Mapfre should add 8% interest simple per year to this 
amount from the date Mr R paid it until the date it pays the claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold this complaint. Mapfre Asistencia, Compania  
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A need to pay Mr R £2752.46 for the repairs,  in 
line with any limits and excesses on the policy. They should  also add interest at a rate of 8% 
simple per year to this amount from the date Mr R paid it until the date the claim is paid1. 
1 If Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros  y Reaseguros,  S.A considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how 
much its taken off. It should  also give Mr R a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN44010303Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4401030