K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that Lloyds Bank Plc wouldnt allow her to withdraw  the money she wanted  
from her account.
background
On 1 May 2018,  Ms S went  into a Lloyds branch to withdraw £5,000  from her current  
account. She needed this money to repay  a loan shed taken out against some jewellery 
shed pawned six months earlier, which had to be repaid by 2 May 2018. 
Lloyds told her she couldnt withdraw that amount of money because, while  she had her 
debit card, passport, proof of address and other identification, she didnt  have her PIN. She 
said she was interrogated by staff at the branch in front of other customers, which  left her 
feeling like a criminal. She also said because she couldnt withdraw the money she needed  
the jewellery shed pawned  was forfeited, which  was worth over £13,000. 
Ms S complained to Lloyds that it shouldve allowed her to withdraw  the money she wanted.  
She said shed never had any problems withdrawing  money before and had enough 
documentation with her to confirm she was the account holder. She also said shed been  
asking for a PIN reminder for some time. 
Lloyds said it hadnt made an error by restricting the amount Ms S could withdraw  from her 
account without  her PIN. But it did accept it had given poor service and offered £75 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  it had caused.  It also reimbursed her 
£34.32 for taxi fares. 
Ms S didnt accept Lloyds  decision and asked us to investigate  her complaint. Our 
adjudicator empathised with her but didnt think Lloyds had done anything  wrong  or needed 
to do anything more  here.  Ms S disagreed and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Ms 
S experienced while trying to access her money. I can appreciate that this caused her 
distress and inconvenience and that it must  have  been deeply  upsetting  that her jewellery 
was forfeited. 
But, having  thought about everything she and Lloyds have said, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusion  as the adjudicator that Lloyds  hasnt made a mistake  and has acted fairly. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms S so Ill explain why.
Banks have a duty to have robust strategies to safeguard customer accounts from potentially  
fraudulent transactions. Preventing fraud is as important for the bank as it is for its 
customers. To do so a bank may insist that only small amounts of money can be withdrawn 
in branch when  a customer doesnt  have a PIN. 
Here, I think  that Lloyds was in a difficult situation  when Ms S asked it to withdraw a large  
amount of money.  Shed arrived  at the branch with no prior warning of her intention to 
withdraw all of the money in her account  and didnt have a PIN. Before Ms S had paid this 
Ref: DRN48002582money into her account, it had been fairly dormant with a zero balance.  So I can understand 
why Lloyds would have concerns over the amount  of money  Ms S wanted  to withdraw in 
branch. This was just as much for her protection as it was for Lloyds.  
Ms S says Lloyds didnt  give her a PIN despite her repeated requests. But Ive seen from 
Lloyds records that a PIN was issued to her in November 2017. Shes also said that shed 
made large  withdrawals and deposited money  without  difficulty  previously without her PIN. 
But while she may have  made previous withdrawals, the issue here is her inability to make 
this specific withdrawal of £5,000.  And I dont believe that any previous withdrawals that Ms 
S may have made without  her PIN have  set a precedent here because  Lloyds had a clear 
policy on how much  a customer could  withdraw  without a PIN, which  it followed here.
Lloyds says its policy, when a customer wants to withdraw funds in branch, is to verify them 
with chip and PIN. Where  a customer doesnt  have a PIN it restricts the maximum they can 
withdraw to £50. I think this is reasonable. Lloyds  has also said that any withdrawals above  
this amount without  a PIN are at the discretion of the most  senior  colleague in the branch at 
the time.   
Lloyds is entitled  to determine its own policy in this regard. So, we cant comment on 
whether a business policy is right or tell it that its policy should be changed. But in the 
individual circumstances  here, Im satisfied  Lloyds followed its own policy on cash 
withdrawals. So, I cant conclude that it did anything wrong by restricting  the amount she 
could withdraw from her account without a PIN.
Lloyds says that where its worried that a customer could be about  to be the victim of some  
sort of scam, it will ask some questions to establish the circumstances behind the 
transaction. This is a reasonable precaution. But I can understand that this can feel intrusive  
to customers. I think, overall, it was reasonable for it to ask Ms S questions to ensure it was 
acting in her best interests. I can appreciate these questions upset and embarrassed Ms S. 
And I think it couldve  asked them in a more private  environment. But, taking everything  into 
consideration, Im satisfied that Lloyds was right to question this withdrawal request and that 
the compensation it paid Ms S for the trouble and upset this caused is fair to recognise the 
impact this had on her.
I understand Ms S forfeited the jewellery  shed pawned. I havent seen any evidence  of that 
loss. But even if I had, I cant reasonably  conclude  that this loss stemmed  from something 
Lloyds did wrong.  So it would be unfair  to hold it liable.
Taking everything into account,  I think that Lloyds acted fairly and in Ms S best interests. It 
was reasonable  for it to insist that shed need use her PIN for such  a large withdrawal. And it 
follows that I wont be asking it to do anything more.
Ref: DRN48002583my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4800258