K822xcomplaint
Ms M and her husband Mr P complain that Inter Partner Assistance S.A. (IPA)  is 
responsible for poor service in connection with a home emergency  insurance policy.
background 
Ms M and Mr P live in a flat. They had a bank account  which   for a monthly fee  gave them  
benefits including home emergency  insurance. It covered emergency repairs  up to a limit of 
£250.00 per claim.
IPA was the insurer responsible for dealing  with claims. Where I refer to IPA I include other 
companies and individuals for whose actions I hold IPA responsible.
In August  2018  Ms M and Mr P found  a leak of water in the hall and called IPA for help.
They complained that IPA took too many visits and caused unnecessary damage to their flat. 
IPA fixed the leak and replaced the bathroom shower trap in October 2018.
IPA appointed a loss adjuster and sent a final response to the complaint on 21 November 
2018. Its offer for damage and repairs was as follows:
hallway £133.56
bathroom £228.35
bedroom £816.54
total          £1,178.45
IPA also offered £200.00 for distress  and inconvenience. Ms M and Mr P brought us their 
complaint about  that.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought that - as a 
result of numerous service failures  Ms M and Mr P suffered significant inconvenience and 
upset. He didnt  think £200.00 was an adequate amount. He recommended  that IPA should 
pay Ms M and Mr P a further £200.00.  He thought that £400.00 in total was a more 
appropriate amount .
IPA accepted the investigators opinion.
Ms M and Mr P disagreed with the investigators  opinion. They  asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. She says,  in summary, that:
They don't  think it is enough of a deterrent to stop IPA treating its customers with 
such disregard. 
The amount  of inconsistencies, mistakes  and stalling tactics used by IPA lead her to 
believe there are endemic issues across the organisation  and this company are 
undoubtedly taking  advantage of many others as well. Many  more vulnerable 
customers would not have the tools available  to them to escalate this continuously  as 
she has had to do over these past months.  
The amount  of time this issue has taken to resolve substantially impacted upon her 
work and involved  countless hours in telephone and email communication. This has 
Ref: DRN48425102been utterly  unacceptable  and she sees no evidence that IPA will have learned from 
this experience and will actively make improvements with the decision that has been 
taken. 
In May 2019  Ms M and Mr P also complained  that IPA is responsible for defective work  or 
materials in replacing  the bathroom shower trap in October  2018.  After repairs and re-tiling, 
they didnt use the shower  until May 2019   when the trap didnt work and water didnt drain 
away. This led to more appointments and more  complaints of poor service.
Under the rules  by which we are bound, I can only review the complaint insofar as Ms M and 
Mr P made it before the final response letter dated 21 November 2018.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service does not fine financial  firms or otherwise punish  them.  
We look at individual  complaints and  if we find that a firm has done something wrong  we 
direct compensation for resultant financial loss and/or distress and inconvenience.
In assessing compensation  we dont seek to punish or deter wrongdoing. Rather we look at 
its effect on the complainant.
From the photographs,  I think  that Ms M and Mr Ps flat had  as well as the bathroom  an 
ensuite shower room.  
It took two months  and about nine plumber  appointments to fix the leak from the bathroom. 
Ms M has provided  a detailed timeline and I accept her record  of events. I summarise IPAs 
shortcomings as follows:
poor communication;
broken or unproductive appointments;
unnecessary hole in the bedroom wall made  by second plumber; 
sending again  that plumber Ms M and Mr P had said they didnt want  back.
I summarise the effects on Ms M and Mr P as follows 
unnecessary waiting at home on multiple occasions;
numerous telephone calls;
numerous emails;
unnecessary prolongation of period of disruption to their home.
Keeping those effects in mind, I agree with the investigator that £200.00 wasnt enough but 
£400.00 would be fair and reasonable compensation. So I will direct IPA to pay a further 
£200.00.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Inter 
Partner Assistance  S.A. to - in addition to its payments of £1,178.45 and £200.00 - pay Ms M 
and Mr P (jointly)  a further £200.00  for distress  and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN48425103Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 January 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4842510