K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the transfer of his additional  voluntary  contributions (AVC) fund held 
with a former  employer  to a self invested personal  pension (SIPP) with a new provider on 
advice from Organic Financial Solutions  Ltd (Organic).   
Organic was an appointed  representative  of Intrinsic  Wealth Limited  (Intrinsic)  which  is now 
part of Quilter Wealth Ltd. 
background 
Mr W became  a client of Organic  in about 2008. He sought advice in 2010 about  his AVC 
fund. He had deferred defined benefits in a former employers pension scheme and an AVC 
fund with that employer. Mr Ws current complaint is just about Organics recommendation to 
transfer his AVC fund.  He complained earlier about the later advice to transfer the value of 
his deferred benefits. 
A mistake was made  when the AVC fund was transferred  Mr Ws main scheme benefits 
were also transferred. Mr W realised that an error had been  made  and the final salary  
benefits transfer was reversed.  Mr W says, at the time, Organic told him the new provider 
had made  an error. When he made his current complaint Mr W said he didnt necessarily 
accept that and he wanted  confirmation  as to how it had happened that his final salary 
benefits were initially  transferred  and not just his AVC fund. 
We obtained some further information from the new provider which we shared with Mr W. It 
showed Organic and the new provider had submitted the correct documentation but Mr Ws 
former employers scheme had transferred  the wrong amount in error. Mr W accepted that 
(although he did comment that Organic  had told him that it was the new provider  who had 
made the error). So that aspect of the matter was resolved. Mr W said his main complaint 
remained that the transfer of his AVC fund was non compliant. 
Ive seen various documents (some of which are dated 2008) including  a client  summary 
sheet; file notes;  several fact finds; two attitude  to risk (ATR)  questionnaires; various 
application and other forms; emails;  and Organics  suitability report dated 4 January 2011.
That report  recorded that Mr W was considering  transferring  two pension arrangements,  one 
of which  was his AVC fund (valued at £116,083.48). He was currently contributing to a 
personal pension  (his SIPP or Retirement Account) which had recently  been  set up. His 
deferred benefits in his former employers scheme were set out: an estimated pension  at 
retirement of £59,461.03 pa or a tax free lump sum of £264,960.27 plus a reduced pension  
of £42,607.95.
The report  said Mr Ws ATR had been discussed  and hed been assessed  as a Dynamic  
Investor. That suggested he was prepared to accept  a relatively high level of risk to get 
potential returns above inflation over the longer term but wanted  to limit the amount of his 
money in more risky investments. He understood investment returns couldnt  be guaranteed 
and he accepted he might  get back less than hed put in, especially in the short  term. 
The report  also set out Mr Ws objectives and why the adviser recommended  Mr W transfer 
his AVC fund to his Retirement  Account. The charges on that plan were set out together  with 
various calculations  (including the critical yield and reduction in yield) aimed at comparing 
the existing plans with the new arrangement.   
Ref: DRN43111362Mr W accepted the recommendation. He signed various forms to enable  the transfer to his 
Retirement Account to go ahead. As Ive said above, a mistake was made which  was sorted 
out. On 24 January 2011 £118,971 (the AVC fund transfer value)  was invested in a multi 
fund portfolio. The new plans charges were noted  as follows:
0.35%  pa service charge
0.5% pa fund based charge
0.788% pa annual management charge on the funds that were chosen
transfer charge  payable for first 5 years.
In 2017 Mr W made a subject access request (SAR) to Intrinsic.  The information disclosed 
included an email dated 24 November 2010 from Intrinsics  compliance department  to 
Organics adviser. It led Mr W to doubt that Organic had followed the correct procedures  in 
dealing with the transfer of his AVC fund. Amongst other things, the email  said: 
There was no evidence that Mr Ws ATR had been assessed. 
The wrong reduction in yield figure had been  used for the other pension Mr W was 
transferring.
The wrong projection rate for Mr Ws AVC fund had been used  6% and not 7%. 
The projected figure needed  to be adjusted for inflation. 
There was no soft facts document.
There was no evidence of a fact find. 
The projections for the AVC fund were out of date.  
Mr W complained  to Intrinsic. It didnt uphold the complaint and Mr W referred the matter  to 
us. He said he wasnt satisfied the AVC sales process was documented correctly or had 
been compliant.  Hed asked  Intrinsic  to show how the failings identified  in the email had 
been rectified to the satisfaction  of its compliance officer. But Intrinsic had been unable  or 
unwilling to do so. Mr W was further  concerned  that key information  was being withheld.  
He also said he didnt  recognise all of the documentation that had been  provided and he was 
concerned the signatures werent  his. He explained why he knew  he couldnt have met with 
Organics adviser on 7 January 2011.  That was the date hed signed various documents  for 
the transfer(s) to go ahead. He attached a document which appeared to have been signed  
by him on that date.  
Intrinsic initially argued that we couldnt  consider the complaint. Intrinsic  said the complaint 
had been made too late - more than six years after the advice had been given and the 
transfer effected.  
The adjudicators view was that the complaint  had been considered earlier and as part of the 
complaint Mr W had made about the transfer  of the value  of his defined  benefits in his former 
employers scheme. The adjudicator said we couldnt look at the same complaint again. She 
also agreed with Intrinsic that Mr W had complained too late. 
Mr W didnt accept that. The matter  was referred  to my ombudsman colleague whod 
considered Mr Ws earlier  complaint about  the advice hed been  given  in 2012 to transfer the 
value of his deferred benefits in his former employers scheme. My colleague  issued a 
provisional decision on 6 April 2018.  His view was that we could consider Mr Ws (further)  
complaint. My colleague confirmed we hadnt investigated what  had happened  to the AVC 
fund when wed looked into the complaint about the (later) transfer of the final salary  
Ref: DRN43111363benefits. Intrinsic didnt make any further submissions about jurisdiction. My colleague 
issued his jurisdiction  decision on 20 July 2018 saying we could investigate this complaint 
about the transfer of Mr Ws AVC fund. 
The adjudicator who looked into the complaint  didnt  uphold  it. He said he was satisfied that 
Organic/Intrinsic had adequately demonstrated that the correct advice procedure had been 
followed. And the adjudicator thought the advice, as confirmed in the suitability report, was 
reasonable, given Mr Ws circumstances and objectives at the time. 
Mr W didnt agree. He asked for copies of some  of the documents  the adjudicator  had 
referred to. Mr W repeated what hed said earlier  that he couldnt have signed the 
documents on 7 January 2011  as hed cancelled his meeting with Organic scheduled for that 
day. He suggested the signatures might  not be his. He said his main reason for making  the 
complaint was that the correct internal procedures between Organic and Intrinsic hadnt 
been followed and that the transfer  hadnt  been correctly signed  off. 
We forwarded to Mr W copies  of the documentation the adjudicator had considered. The 
adjudicators view was that these showed the issues raised in the email dated  24 November 
2010 had been addressed. 
Mr W commented. In summary he said:
He didnt agree he was a dynamic  investor and prepared to accept a relatively high 
level of risk. The ATR questionnaires were  questionable. The first question  would 
categorise him as cautious. As do a number of his other  answers, including that he 
was someone whod rather be safe than sorry. Yet hed been categorised  as one 
step away from the riskiest type of investor.
The fact find was virtually blank. It had been produced in April 2008  when  Mr W first 
instructed Organic in connection with an investment of £20,000 in an ISA. The fact 
find summary says Mr Ws income is £350,000 pa and he has a mortgage with a 
named provider, neither of which was true. No further fact find has been  produced  in 
connection with the AVC transfer. By then hed been made redundant. His personal 
circumstances were  very different but werent recorded or taken into account in 
assessing his needs. 
The correct regulatory procedures werent  followed. The email of 24 November 2010  
highlighted key major shortcomings  (serious  omissions) on Organics part. It isnt 
clear if they were all (rather than just some of the less significant errors) addressed to 
Intrinsics satisfaction.  The question remained what was done  internally between 
Organic and Intrinsic to allow  the transfer  to proceed. 
Theres no point of sale soft facts record. About that Mr W had earlier  pointed  to 
emails dated 4 January 2011  and 6 November 2010. Organic  said the suitability 
report had been amended  and a soft facts  note added  as well. That presumably led 
to the case being  signed off by Intrinsic. But those documents havent  been shared.
The absence of a fact find is a glaring omission  when Mr Ws circumstances had 
changed so dramatically.  
Mr W told us hed approached Intrinsic for some further information. And a new fact find was 
produced. I think,  from what Mr W has said, that two copies may have been produced with 
different dates (24 November 2010  and 20 December 2010) but both are identical. Any in 
any event Mr W says hes never seen the fact find before and it isnt accurate  he and his 
wifes earnings werent  as shown. The key summary  paragraph hadnt  been completed 
either. Mr W said it shows that information had been withheld. 
Ref: DRN43111364Mr W later added that Intrinsic had told him, having retrieved his files from its archive,  that 
there was no Intrinsic sign off for the transfer  of his AVC fund.  He said that confirmed 
Organic and Intrinsic had failed their basic duty of care to adopt  the appropriate regulatory 
procedures when considering the transfer.   And no soft facts record has been  produced.  In 
the circumstances Mr W remained unconvinced that Organic had followed the correct  
procedures. He said if Organic hadnt  then the sale was void and should be set aside.
my findings
First Id like to apologise to the parties that we werent able to allocate this complaint to an 
ombudsman sooner. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and information to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont disagree  with 
the conclusions  reached by the adjudicator. In short I dont think  the advice to transfer was 
unsuitable for Mr W. And Im satisfied that the issues identified in the email of 24 November 
2010 were addressed. I dont expect Mr W to agree. I can see he feels  very strongly about 
whats happened. But Ive explained below  why Ive reached the views  I have.   
I dont want Mr W to think Ive misunderstood  his complaint. His focus is on the procedures  
that were followed and in particular what happened between  Organic  and Intrinsic.  And his 
position is that if there are compliance  failures and Organic/Intrinsic cant  demonstrate  that 
the sale was compliant  then his complaint succeeds.  
But my approach is slightly different. What Ive concentrated  on, initially  at least, is whether 
the advice to transfer was suitable  for Mr W. That doesnt mean  Ive ignored the relevant 
regulatory provisions  and which, as Mr W suggests,  are often aimed  at protecting consumers 
and avoiding  unfair outcomes. Im required to take into account relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where  appropriate)  what I 
consider to have  been good industry  practice  at the relevant  time.  Ive done so. 
But we wont  always uphold a complaint if we think that suitable  advice was given even if the 
business hasnt  complied strictly with all its obligations under, for example, the COBS  
(Conduct of Business Sourcebook) rules set out in the regulators handbook. And we dont 
fine or punish firms for breaches of the rules or guidance  thats a matter for the regulator.  
That doesnt  mean Im seeking to underplay the importance of firms adhering  to their legal 
and regulatory  obligations. But Im just saying it isnt our sole focus.
And, if there  are regulatory breaches or other failings, including if unsuitable advice has been 
given, that wont  mean  usually  mean  that a sale is void or should be set aside. I note what  
Mr W has said about severing his relationship with Organic if hed known  at the time that 
there were any issues. So presumably he wouldnt have gone ahead  with the transfer or hed 
have exercised any right to cancel. But it wont usually be possible to unwind a particular 
transaction after the event. There are practical difficulties in that its likely to involve a third 
party provider against whom no complaint has been  made. 
So well instead look to redress  any financial loss thats resulted from the unsuitable advice. 
We might  tell the business  concerned  to work  out what the consumers fund would have  
been worth  if it had been left where it was with what its actually worth and pay any shortfall. 
Ref: DRN43111365Against the background Ive considered  first if the recommendation  to transfer  Mr Ws AVC 
fund was suitable for him. COBS 9.2.1R said (at the relevant time) about assessing 
suitability and a firms  obligations:
(1) A firm must take reasonable  steps  to ensure that a personal recommendation, or a 
decision to trade, is suitable  for its client.
(2) When making the personal recommendation or managing his investments, the firm must 
obtain the necessary information  regarding the client's:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific  type of 
designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation,  or take the decision, which is suitable 
for him.
I dont disagree with what the adjudicator  said about the transfer being driven by the fact that 
Mr W was a higher risk investor  and wanted access  to a greater selection of funds  than the 
restricted selection available with his AVC. And thats borne out by the funds that were  
selected. 
Mr W has disputed  the assessment of his ATR. I can see what  he says about the answers 
he gave when completing the risk assessment questionnaires being  contradictory. And why 
he questions the scoring used.  That said, I dont  see he indicated  that hed rather be safe 
than sorry  what he actually said was that he had no strong  opinion  about that. But, and 
that aside, I think its often the case with this type of assessment of an individuals  ATR that 
some answers taken in isolation  may suggest something different from the overall result.  
But, regardless of the scoring methodology, the outcome  that Mr W had been  assessed as 
a Dynamic Investor and what that meant  was clearly set out on page 2 of the suitability 
letter. I dont think it was wrong for Organic to proceed on that basis.  And Mr W would have 
known that the recommendation  was based on that assessment of his ATR. I think hed have 
known the implications of that. I dont think the recommendation to transfer was unsuitable 
on the basis that it represented  more  risk than Mr W had indicated  he was prepared to take.  
Suitability will also depend on the investors financial situation. Mr W points to the absence of 
an up to date and accurate  fact find as a serious  omission (and described as such by 
Intrinsic). Up until relatively recently  it appeared the only fact find Organic  had was some two 
years or so out of date.  I dont think it would have been appropriate for Organic to proceed  
without getting  up to date information about  Mr Ws circumstances  and financial  situation. 
Especially when his position had changed a lot  hed been made redundant and hed 
started working (with  his wife) in their own business.  That sort of change in financial 
circumstances is likely  to impact not just on an investors objectives but also their capacity 
for loss. 
But a later fact find has now been  produced. I can see why Mr W is unhappy  that it wasnt 
disclosed earlier. And why that might  reinforce his suspicions that information has been 
withheld and that there  might be other  documents which still havent been disclosed.  And 
hes particularly concerned that the soft facts  record (the existence  of which  seems  to have 
been confirmed  in the emails Mr W has referred to) hasnt been produced. But I think  I can 
fairly decide Mr Ws complaint based on what Ive seen so far.
Ref: DRN43111366Mr W says the fact find thats now been  produced  isnt accurate. I note he didnt sign it and 
the date isnt entirely clear. Mr W says the income figures for him and his wife arent 
accurate (and were hugely  overstated).  Ive seen emails in the early  part of 2011 about 
proposed property purchases  and business ventures, possibly using the funds in Mr Ws 
SIPP. It looks like Mr W was paying himself a minimal salary from the company. His wife 
was only drawing a relatively modest  income  too. I accept what Mr W says about the fact 
find not being accurate. 
But I dont think that means the recommendation must be unsuitable. The AVC fund 
represented a relatively small proportion of Mr WS overall financial provision. He wanted  
more investment flexibility. At the time he had significant final salary  benefits in his former 
employers scheme. He (or his company on his behalf)  was making significant  pension 
contributions into his new Retirement Account. And his age (he was 51 at the time of the 
transfer) meant he had a reasonable time horizon  to accrue  further benefits. So, and even 
though Mr Ws employment circumstances had changed (and he was no longer employed in 
a very senior position with very high earnings plus potential bonuses) I still dont think the 
advice to transfer was unsuitable. 
Mr W has questioned the authenticity of some of the signatures  in particular documents  
which he appears to have signed on 7 January  2011. Im not a handwriting expert.  But the 
signatures do resemble  Mr Ws undisputed signature (for example on his complaint form).  I 
note what he says about not being  available to sign the documents  on 7 January 2011. But 
even if I accept that (which I do) its sometimes the case that documents  are signed but left 
undated. It was a long time ago and so establishing  now exactly if and when Mr W signed 
the documents wont be easy. In any event,  and as Mr W accepts, he did want to go ahead  
with the transfers  at the time at least. So I havent pursued this aspect of the matter further. 
Although, as Ive said, my primary focus  is on suitability and I dont think  the advice was 
unsuitable, Ive also considered what happened from a compliance  perspective.  I think 
Organic did address  the failures highlighted  in the email of 24 November 2010 (and even 
though the existence  of a formal sign off document is in some  doubt). The suitability report  
wasnt issued until 4 January 2011  which gave sufficient time for the shortcomings to be 
addressed. In particular  it seems:   
Mr Ws ATR was assessed.
The wrong reduction in yield figure was for the other fund that Mr W transferred so it 
isnt directly relevant  here and to Mr Ws decision to transfer his AVC fund. But it 
looks like the right figure has been used anyway. 
The projection rate has been adjusted  7% has been used. 
The adjustment for inflation is shown. 
As Ive said above, no softs facts record or summary has been produced. Thats  not 
satisfactory but it seems from the contemporaneous emails  that one was produced 
even if it cant be located now. 
The charges,  including fund based charge  (fbc), are set out. 
The AVC figures  had been updated   the illustration  is dated 10 December 2010.
Discussion of the Lifetime  Allowance (LTA) and that it was being reduced is included.  
All in all Im unable to say that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld.  
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making  any award.
Ref: DRN43111367Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4311136