K820x#14complaint
Mrs T, who is represented by her husband, Mr T complains that Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC rejected  her claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a holiday.
background
Mrs T and her husband booked an overseas package holiday with a company I will call H. 
She used  her credit card to pay for part of the cost.  They booked  a room which was descried 
as a Junior Suite with Balcony  and Mr T says they were told it had a pool view. However, 
Mr T says that on arrival they were told they had been given an upgrade. When  they rejected 
this they were told their original choice wasnt available and so they had to accept it. Mr T 
says: What we got was a very outdated, dismal and much worn room  overlooking  a 
shopping area and busy road. After two days they were given the room  they had booked  
Mr T also says the dining room wasnt as described,  they didnt receive the complimentary 
bottle of wine and no special assistance  was provided on the return fight and the seats they 
had booked werent given to them.
They took the matter up with Hs local representative, but say he wasnt helpful. In due 
course T offered him £20 to cover the fact the seats they had booked werent given to them.  
It rejected the rest of his complaint and said it had no record  of him contacting  its 24/7 
holiday line. It added that: decisions regarding room allocation  are at the discretion of the 
hotel reception.  While we are able to put through special  requests, we aren't able to 
guarantee them due to hotel changes and availability. 
Mrs T then made a claim  to Tesco  under section  75. It asked both Mr T and H for further 
information and concluded that there  hadnt  been a breach  of contract. It said it didnt have 
sufficient evidence to show that the room they had been given wasnt  as described or better. 
It said their decision to wait two days in the substitute room was a personal choice as the 
hotel had informed  them of the unavailability of the junior suite.
It also said that it didnt  have sufficient evidence as to the issue with the dining room. It also 
thought the offer of £20 by H was fair. Mr T was unhappy with this response  and the 
complaint was brought to this service. It was considered by one of our investigators who 
didnt recommend it be upheld.
He said the invoice showed Mr and Mrs T had booked a junior suite  with balcony and there 
was no mention of a pool view. He added that the hotel had provided a room for the duration 
of the holiday  which would indicate that the contract had been fulfilled. He noted  the 
photographs Mr T had supplied and said these seemed  to indicate it was similar to the 
description in Hs brochure. He added  that while Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with the 
upgraded room  this was a subjective  view and he didnt consider it was sufficient to allow  
him to recommend  the complaint be upheld.
As for the missing bottle  of wine he didnt consider this could be classed as 
misrepresentation. He concluded that the £20 offered by H was fair. Mr T didnt agree and 
said there had been  a breach of contract as they didnt get the room  which  they had booked. 
He said the substitute room was inferior, worn out and out of date. It said that the 
investigators view suggested they had no legal  right to the room they had booked.  He also 
referred to the package  holiday  regulations and said the room must  match  the description 
given.
Ref: DRN41151752my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
Tesco has said it does not agree  a claim should be made under section 75, as there is not 
enough evidence  to show the travel  operator  was in breach of contract  or misrepresented  
the holiday offer.
Mr T had made it clear  that the core of the complaint  is the fact the room  they had booked  
wasnt provided on arrival and he says that the alternative was inferior.  I have looked at the 
hotel website, not that of H, and see that it offers  suites which  are described as the upper 
range of rooms  available.  These  are located  on the seventh floor and apparently offer the 
best views. The photographs of those suites  on the website match  the ones supplied  by Mr T 
and so it seems reasonable to conclude that they were given an upgrade  on arrival.
I appreciate Mr T has said the room  was dated and that may be so, but I cannot safely 
conclude it was inferior to the one he and his wife had booked. If the hotel was unable to 
supply what had been ordered then it is acceptable  for it to offer a better room. I appreciate 
the photographs arent detailed, but I cannot say from those  that the room was inferior.  
The issue  is one of quality  and that can be a subjective  decision.  To allow  me to uphold the 
complaint I need  to have evidence that demonstrates that the room was worse than had 
been booked. I appreciate Mr T feels strongly that it was, but that isnt enough to allow me to 
ask Tesco  to uphold  his claim.  Section 75 says that there must be a clear breach of contract 
and this isnt sufficiently clear.
The other matters, while  I can see they were  annoying dont amount to either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by H. The only issue which  was clearly wrong was the failure 
of the airline to provide  the booked seats and H has offered to refund the cost incurred by 
Mrs T of £20. I consider  that to be a reasonable response. 
I appreciate the strength of feeling with which Mr T has argued his wifes  claim, but I regret  
that I am not persuaded  to uphold the complaint. 
Ref: DRN41151753my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or reject  my decision before 
15 February 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4115175