K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited  (BMW FS) was not of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr M entered into a HPA with BMW FS in July 2017 to acquire  a vehicle. He says that a few 
weeks after acquisition he noticed  a problem with the air conditioning. He booked  the car in 
for repair in September 2017. However  since then he says that the issue keeps returning 
and that each time the car is returned after repair it is only a few days until the issue  returns.
Because of the ongoing nature of the issue, Mr M raised a complaint with BMW FS. He was 
told that BMW  FS would look into potentially  replacing the vehicle but following further 
discussions he was told this wouldnt be happening.  Following  further  repairs,  Mr M asked to 
reject the vehicle due his belief that there was an underlying defect. 
BMW FS didnt accept the rejection of the car. It says that Mr M was provided  with an 
alternative vehicle  while his vehicle was being  repaired (although  Mr M had said this was the 
same specification as his) but offered to reimburse Mr M a months payment in addition  to its 
previous offer of covering the July payment.
Our investigator thought it reasonable that Mr M was allowed to reject the car. She said the 
issue with the air conditioning was continuing despite repairs. She noted  that while Mr Ms 
car was in for repair  for an extended period from May 2018  to June 2018 he was provided 
with a vehicle  which wasnt  the same specification  as his but that BMW FS had offered to 
reimburse payments  which she thought addressed this issue.
Both parties  accepted our investigators  view. However when settlement was discussed, 
Mr M asked  that his deposit  be refunded.  BMW FS said this wasnt  part of the agreed  
settlement and so did not agree to this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M acquired a vehicle through a HPA with BMW FS. Under the regulations  BMW FS can 
be held responsible if the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of acquisition. In this 
case the car was registered in June 2017  and acquired by Mr M less than a month later with 
a mileage of 20. The vehicle was effectively new at acquisition and so it was reasonable that 
Mr M would expect it to be free from faults  including minor defects. 
Within a few weeks,  Mr M noticed  an issue with the air conditioning. Repairs were carried 
out in September 2017. Had these  been  successful I would have found this to have been a 
reasonable remedy. Unfortunately the repairs werent successful and Mr M experienced 
further issues with the air conditioning as well as another issue  in June 2018 when he was 
due to collect the car.
Given when the issue first arose and that the vehicle was less than three months  old, I find it 
reasonable to accept  that the issue with the air conditioning was due to a fault that was 
present or developing at the point  of supply. More than one attempt  to repair  the issue  was 
Ref: DRN40276232made but the problem remains. Therefore I find it reasonable that Mr M is now allowed to 
reject the vehicle. This recommendation was made by our investigator and was accepted by 
both parties. 
When a vehicle is rejected it is usual that the deposit  paid under the HPA is also refunded 
along with interest  from the date of payment. I note BMW FS comments that this wasnt 
included in the original settlement but I find it reasonable  that Mr M would have expected  this 
to be part of the settlement and that it is included. According to the HPA Mr M made  an 
advance payment of £10,000 (which based on the invoices appears  to be a combination  of a 
payment and part exchange).
Mr M also experienced time without his vehicle. I understand that an alternative  vehicle was 
provided but this wasnt the same specification as Mr Ms. However BMW  FS refunded one 
monthly payment  and covered another monthly payment. I find this adequate compensation 
for the period when Mr Ms vehicle  was in for repair.
Mr M has also said that he hasnt made  use of the vehicle as much as he would have done 
had the issues  not occurred. He has explained  that he has been concerned about possible 
health issues due to the possible leak from the air conditioning.  I note these comments  and 
while I accept the issue didnt prevent the car being used and so Mr M should  remain  liable 
for the payments, I think it reasonable that Mr M is refunded part of his payments  for the loss 
of enjoyment he has suffered. 
In this case, repairs were  carried out in September and November 2017 and then the issue 
was raised again  a few months later. This is not surprising given the issue relates to air 
conditioning which is less likely to be used during the winter months. Because  of the nature 
of the issue and its timing  it could  be fair to provide a refund for certain months but not 
others however  this may not accurately reflect the overall concern caused.  Therefore,  in this 
case I think a 5% refund of all payments is reasonable to reflect  the nature of issue and 
concern it caused.   
I also think that Mr M has been caused trouble  and inconvenience  by needing to have the 
car repaired on more  than one occasion and so I think compensation of £150  is reasonable.
My suggested redress was put to the parties for comment and MR M noted that he was 
about to make his May payment and that this related to the month  ahead. To the extent Mr 
M has made a payment for a period of time which he doesnt have use of the car (that is 
because it has been collected as part of this settlement) this amount should  be refunded to 
him.
Ref: DRN40276233my final decision
My final decision is that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited should allow  Mr M to reject  the 
vehicle. This means that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited should:
1.collect the vehicle  from Mr M at no cost to him;
2.cancel the HPA with nothing further  owing and refund  any payments that relate  to a 
period after the collection  of the car;
3.refund  Mr Ms deposit, recorded as £10,000 in the HPA;
4.refund  Mr M 5% of his payments made;
5.pay Mr M £150 for the trouble and inconvenience he has been  caused;
6.remove any adverse information  regarding this HPA from Mr Ms credit file.
Item 3 is subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
If BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4027623