K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the mortgage advice they received from an appointed  
representative of Legal & General Partnership Services  Limited (L&G). 
Mr and Mrs W are represented in bringing  this complaint by a claims management  company  
(CMC). 
background
Mr and Mrs W remortgaged in 2005. They did so on the advice of a broker from the firm 
Carrington Carr, which was an appointed representative of L&G at the time.
The CMC has raised  a number of concerns  with the advice given to Mr and Mrs W. In 
summary, they say that Mr and Mrs W were  misadvised to consolidate other debts within  the 
new mortgage. That included  a credit card balance  that had been subject to a 0% 
promotional rate  so this, in particular, was now going  to cost them a lot more over the term 
of the mortgage.  Mr and Mrs W were also advised to take out a will package  and use a 
particular firm of solicitors  for the conveyancing  work  and the CMC thought the costs for 
these additional  services had been excessive and inappropriately added to the mortgage  
balance.
L&G didnt think the mortgage advice had been unsuitable. It said that Mr and Mrs W had 
been able to consolidate £7,700 of credit  card debt and borrow  an additional £11,000  for 
their desired  home  improvements, while increasing their monthly outgoings by just £36.30  a 
month. But it did accept  it had been inappropriate  to fund the cost of the will package 
through the remortgage,  so it offered to refund the interest that this had accrued along with 
£150 compensation for the inconvenience  caused.
One of our investigators  looked into things, but didnt think L&G needed to do anything more. 
She didnt  think it had been  a good idea to increase the mortgage to pay for the will but 
thought L&Gs offer remedied this fairly.  She didnt think Mr and Mrs W had been 
overcharged or misled  in respect of the other costs involved. And while  she appreciated it 
wasnt generally good advice to consolidate debt that wasnt attracting interest, she noted  
that Mr and Mrs W had only been paying  £40 a month to the £5,400 balance.  So in the 
circumstances, she didnt  think it had been unsuitable to consolidate this within the new 
mortgage. 
As the CMC didnt  accept our investigators view, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I should point out that while Ive reviewed 
everything both parties have sent us, I wont comment on each and every point thats been 
raised. Rather my findings are focused on those issues which I consider  most relevant to 
how Ive reached my decision, which I hope neither side will see as discourteous.
Ref: DRN42365542The suitability of the mortgage advice
Mr and Mrs W wanted to borrow additional  funds to carry out home  improvements. The fact 
find documents completed by the broker also indicate that Mr and Mrs W wanted to clear 
their revolving credit  in other words, their three  credit card balances. They also indicate 
Mr and Mrs W were seeking  the certainty of knowing the absolute maximum payment theyd 
need to make each  month to service  their debt.
The mortgage recommended  by L&Gs broker achieved these aims. They were able to 
borrow an additional £12,000 to fund their home  improvement work and £7,700 to repay 
their credit card debts.  Consolidating the unsecured debts within the mortgage  and then 
fixing into a new rate gave  Mr and Mrs W the certainty in their payments that they were 
seeking. 
Its not always good advice to consolidate  existing debts within a mortgage: theres a 
balance of pros and cons to consider. So Ive considered  whether  it was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs W in light of their individual  circumstances.
Mr and Mrs W said they were already paying  £124 towards their credit cards  each month.  So 
on top of their existing  mortgage (which cost them £276 a month), this meant a monthly 
payment of £400  towards their borrowing.  Under  the new mortgage, these four payments  
were replaced with just one. It was slightly higher  at £436.30. But this was now also paying 
off a significant amount of additional borrowing.  It also meant  they would be paying off the 
debts outstanding on the credit cards  rather than just making minimum payments to cover  
interest.
While Mr and Mrs W would now be paying a much lower interest rate (at least as compared  
to two of their previous credit card accounts), the CMC understandably questions  the merit in 
consolidating the largest credit  card debt (£5,400) given Mr and Mrs W had told the broker 
that this card was subject  to a 0% deal. So they were now paying interest on that £5,400 
balance when they werent previously. And for each of the consolidated debts, by adding  
them to the mortgage Mr and Mrs W were now likely to be paying the debt off over a much  
longer term  thereby incurring more interest.
Ive thought about these  points carefully.  But I still think it was suitable to proceed. Its not 
known exactly how long that 0% deal wouldve lasted  and the CMC, understandably given 
the time thats  passed  hasnt been  able to tell us. So its highly likely that the balance 
wouldve reverted to a more typical rate  in the region of 15% - after at least a couple  of 
years, significantly increasing the minimum monthly  payment.  It wouldve taken Mr and 
Mrs W at least 11 years  to repay the £5,400 balance at the rate of their existing payments, 
even if they continued to be charged  no interest.  And therefore  they wouldve needed 
substantially longer, or to pay substantially more, to repay that debt in the likely event that 
the 0% came to an end. 
So I think there was still benefit to Mr and Mrs W in consolidating all the credit card debt 
within the new mortgage, especially bearing  in mind that they were already going to be 
making some changes to their arrangements anyway.  It gave  them the stability of one fixed 
payment, ensuring  the debt would be repaid and insulating them  from the significantly higher 
interest rates applicable to credit card borrowing  along with the lower monthly payments as 
explained above. From what  Ive seen of their financial  circumstances at the time,  they were  
operating on a relatively tight budget and I think this gave them some valuable  stability.
Ref: DRN42365543Ive noted the CMCs  concerns that the broker  failed  to provide enough  information  to Mr and 
Mrs W to enable them to make an informed  decision. I cant  know  now what  was discussed,  
but notes made at the time do suggest  a conversation was had about the fact that the 
reduction in payments needed to be weighed up against a higher cost overall. I accept that 
the particular calculations to flesh that out might  not have been  produced.  But as I think  it 
represented a suitable option  for Mr and Mrs W, Im not persuaded that they would (or 
should) have opted against it even if better information had been presented. So these points 
dont lead me to a different conclusion  on this issue.
The will package
Alongside the mortgage, the broker made arrangements for Mr and Mrs W to review  their 
will. I dont think it was bad advice to do that. I note the CMC accepts  the importance of 
making a will, but thinks the fee for this (of around £464) was excessive. But I dont think  I 
can hold the broker  responsible for the fee. If Mr and Mrs W think  they were overcharged, 
that would  be a matter to take up with the third party who provided the will package itself.
The CMC has made  a number of other  arguments about the referral  by the broker  to a 
particular will-writing company, most  notably  that the two businesses  had directors in 
common. I dont find that this renders advice to take out a will inherently unsuitable or 
inappropriate. It seems to me that Mr and Mrs W wouldve had the opportunity to decline a 
review of these arrangements if theyd not wished  to proceed. So I cant see any basis on 
which to require L&G to refund the fee for the will package, as the CMC has requested.
I do however think its down to the broker that the will package was paid for with the 
mortgage funds.  L&G has already  accepted that may not have  been  suitable for Mr and 
Mrs W. And I think its made a fair offer to resolve  that: by reimbursing them for any interest 
incurred by adding  the cost to the mortgage and paying them £150 compensation for any 
inconvenience caused.
The legal costs
The completion statement  shows that Mr and Mrs W paid a legal administration  fee of 
£522.88. The CMC  says those costs were  unnecessary,  as they couldve got free legal 
services through  the lender. But L&G says that wasnt  the case. Ive not seen anything to 
show that free legal services were available, so it seems Mr and Mrs W would always have 
needed to pay for the conveyancing  work  to be done. 
I note, though, that the mortgage product  recommended to Mr and Mrs W did have  a help 
with costs incentive, under which they were  given £750 by the lender on completion. That 
seems to have more than covered the legal and administration fees.
The CMC notes that some of the costs in respect of the legal work were charged  by the 
broker rather than the solicitor. I dont find anything inherently unreasonable in that; there  are 
a number of administrative procedures that need not have been carried out by a solicitor. 
The broker  advised  Mr and Mrs W of the likely  legal fees at the outset and to whom  theyd  
be paid, when they confirmed their instruction to pay £195 plus VAT for such costs to the 
solicitors and £250 plus VAT to the broker. Thats what they paid,  so I cant say they were  
misled or misinformed.
Ref: DRN42365544The legal costs  were  paid with additional mortgage  funds, but thats not uncommon and I 
cant see that Mr and Mrs W wouldve preferred to pay them  upfront. They had the option  of 
paying them  off when in receipt of the £750  incentive proceeds, but it wouldve been up to 
them to arrange  that.
The CMC also raised  concerns that the broker received commission for recommending the 
firm of solicitors  used  for the conveyancing  work. But while the complaints been with us, 
L&G has made an offer to resolve that aspect of the complaint which  the CMC has accepted. 
So I make no finding on that matter here.
my final decision
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited has already made  an offer to settle  
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  that I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 January 2020. 
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4236554