K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 1999. Miss R says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
Miss R took out the store card and PPI in a shop  but FICL has taken  responsibility  for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Rs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Miss R says that she wasnt aware  that PPI was optional,  and that she had to take it as she 
was led to believe she needed it to be approved for the store card.  But I think that FICL 
made it clear  that she didnt have to take out he PPI, and that she chose to do so, although I 
can understand why she doesnt remember this as it was so long ago. 
I say this because  while I cant be certain  what was discussed at the time, FICL has provided  
a copy of Miss Rs store card application  and I can see that the policy is presented as 
optional, and Miss R has signed to select it  this is separate to her signature for the card.  
Miss R has also said that she was just told where  to sign  but she was entering  in to a 
financial agreement,  so I would expect her to make reasonable steps to ensure she read 
what she was agreeing to by signing.    
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss R so it didnt  have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss R got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Miss R has said, but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN44424172my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2019.
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4442417