K820x#14complaint
Mrs Hs complaint is about the transfer  in 2010 of her personal pension into a self-invested  
personal pension  (SIPP).  Mrs Hs pension monies  were subsequently invested in an 
unregulated overseas property development (Harlequin) that has since become illiquid  with 
little value. Mrs H holds  Park Hall Financial  Services Limited  responsible. 
Mrs Hs husband, who transferred two pensions and invested with Mrs H in the same 
property development,  has also complained. His complaint is being dealt with separately. 
background
A brief summary of the circumstances  leading to this complaint, and my initial  conclusions,  
were set out in my provisional decision, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. 
In short,  Mrs H had a personal pension which she was looking to use to fund an investment 
in Harlequin. She engaged the services of Park Hall to facilitate this. Mr H was also 
considering contributing to the investment using his own pensions.  He also used Park Hall, 
which advised him in relation to one of his pensions in September  2009. 
In Park Halls view,  Mrs H went through a non-advised, execution-only, process to transfer 
her pension. She completed  paperwork to open  her SIPP on 1 February 2010. Park Hall 
wrote to her on the same day to confirm receipt  of the paperwork and to outline details of the 
proposed transaction. On 23 April, Mr and Mrs H signed their Harlequin contract. Mrs Hs 
pension, which had a transfer value of £10,985, was transferred to the SIPP on 3 June. On 
24 June, Mr and Mrs H used their respective  SIPPs to make the first payment on their 
Harlequin property.  Between  them, Mr and Mrs H purchased 30% of the property. The 
remaining 70% was to be purchased by Mr and Mrs H at various points during the propertys 
construction. 
The development has since run into trouble and is now illiquid and has limited value, 
prompting Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Park Hall didnt think Mrs H had complained in time under the rules  that govern complaints 
such as this. In my provisional  decision, I concluded  that the complaint had been made in 
time. I went on to consider the merits of the complaint. I found that Park Hall had strayed into 
giving Mrs H advice. As such,  it had to ensure the transfer, and investment, were suitable  for 
her. I didnt think either was suitable.  However, despite this, I provisionally decided that the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. I came  to this conclusion because I thought there were 
several reasons  to suggest Mrs H would have proceeded with the transaction whatever Park 
Halls actions.  
I asked both parties for comments on my provisional  decision. Park Hall had no further 
comment. Mr H made a number of points which I address below.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  satisfied with 
my provisional findings.
Ref: DRN44729312Neither party has commented on my provisional  conclusion that Mrs H had complained in 
time under the relevant rules. I see no reason, therefore, to change  my mind  on this. 
Turning to the merits of the complaint, Park Hall says Mrs H transferred her pension  on a 
non-advised, execution-only, basis. In my provisional decision I thought that this wasnt the 
case. Instead, I thought Park Hall had strayed  into advising Mrs H. I referred to its 
1 February 2010  letter  to her which said: 
I must point out that the size of your fund is exceptionally small; the effect  of the deductions  
and fees associated with theSIPP will substantially  deplete the available  funds. I have 
pointed this out in our various conversations and emails, however you wish to proceed with 
the transfer.
I thought that in pointing  out at various points the problem of investing a small amount  in a 
SIPP, Park Hall was advising Mrs H against  the transfer. Park Hall confirmed as much in its 
response to Mrs Hs complaint where it made a number of statements to say it had advised 
Mrs H against transferring. For instance:  
As such, we have explicitly advised [Mrs H] against  not only the investment but also the 
movement of her pension at all. She decided not to follow  our advice.
So I thought  Park Halls decision to categorise  Mrs Hs transaction as execution-only (and 
using that categorisation to defend its actions)  even  though it had already advised against 
the transaction (and using  that advice to defend its actions too) wasnt  the right approach to 
have taken. I went on to say that if Park Hall was truly acting in Mrs Hs interests it should 
have refused to transact on her behalf given it knew proceeding  was inadvisable. 
Alternatively, it could  have put Mrs H through a full advice process and, if needed, a properly 
documented insistent  client  process (although I acknowledged Mrs H wouldnt likely have 
wanted to pay for advice).
Neither party commented on the above. So my view is unchanged. Park Hall strayed  into 
giving advice to Mrs H and, as such, it should have either refused to transact on her behalf 
or it should have  put Mrs H through a full advice process.  The point of contention is whether 
Park Halls actions could  have made  a difference  to what  Mrs H did. In my provisional 
decision, I concluded that Mrs H would have  transferred her pension, and invested in 
Harlequin, whatever  Park Halls actions.  I said:
Park Hall did, after all, say on more than one occasion that Mrs H shouldnt  transfer. But 
Mrs H chose to transfer nonetheless  and did so even after giving the matter due 
consideration  emails  show she did query  the fee issue in some  detail. And whilst I have 
doubts about Park Halls  execution-only process,  at least  some of the risks of investing in 
commercial property (higher fees, potential illiquidity and future financing for instance) were  
provided to Mrs H through her direct offer pack.  
Its also notable that Mr H, who was investing  in the same Harlequin development as Mrs H, 
was advised against transferring his occupational pension scheme benefits. Its evident from 
this that Mr and Mrs H were intent on transferring given that they would, reasonably, have 
known that doing so was inadvisable for both them and their partner. Mr and Mrs H had also 
previously tried to invest in Harlequin  but were unable to do so because  of financing  issues.  
Given they had a substantial buy-to-let portfolio as well, I think it fair to say they had a long-
standing interest in investing in property and a particular interest in Harlequin. 
Ref: DRN44729313Given all the above, its difficult to argue that Park Halls actions would have made  a 
difference here. In short, I think Mrs H would, likely, have transferred her pension and 
invested in Harlequin whatever Park Halls actions.
In response, Mr and Mrs H say they wouldnt have proceeded if it hadnt been for Park Halls 
involvement. In particular, they say its unfair  to say they would have invested in Harlequin 
just because they had a previous interest  in the development.  
However, its the accumulation of evidence thats  important here. So even if I ignore any 
previous interest  in Harlequin, its still the case that Mrs H chose to go against Park Halls  
repeated advice to not transfer  and did so despite  Mr H also being advised against 
transferring his own pension. In the circumstances, I think its fair to say Mrs H would, most 
likely, have transferred her pension whatever Park Halls  actions.
 
Mr and Mrs H also say they were  financially naive and point to Mr Hs later attempts to 
withdraw funds from his pension to evidence this. However, I havent seen anything  that 
makes me think that their naivety was such that Park Hall should have taken special 
measures to deal with them. Mr H was, after all, a business owner  and Mr and Mrs H did 
have a sizeable buy-to-let  portfolio.  But I acknowledge the more  general point which is that 
they were too willing to believe the Harlequin story and were a victim  of its sales  processes. 
But I think that rather supports the point that they wouldnt likely  have been deterred from 
transacting, whatever Park Halls actions.   
Mr and Mrs Hs other  comments  relate to the Harlequin sales  machine and Park Halls part 
in that. Ive considered everything  they have said but Im satisfied their comments  dont raise 
anything new and material  in relation  to this complaint. 
It follows from the above that Im not upholding  Mrs Hs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, Im not upholding Mrs Hs 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN44729314COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs Hs complaint is about the transfer in 2010 of her personal pension into a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP). Mrs Hs pension monies were  subsequently invested in an unregulated overseas 
property development (Harlequin) that has since become  illiquid with little value. Mrs H holds Park 
Hall Financial Services Limited responsible.  
Mrs Hs husband, who transferred two pensions  and invested with Mrs H in the same property 
development, has also complained.  His complaint is being dealt with separately. 
background
In 2008, Mr and Mrs H looked to invest in the Harlequin  development. Mrs H paid a £1,000 
reservation fee but the proposed purchase fell through. In 2009,  they revived their interest in the 
development. It looks like this renewed  interest was prompted by an unregulated firm which 
introduced Mr and Mrs H to Park Hall. Mrs H had a personal pension which she wanted to use to fund 
the investment. She engaged  the services of Park Hall to facilitate this. Mr H was also considering  
contributing to the investment using  his own pensions. He also used Park Hall, which advised him in 
relation to one of his pensions  in September 2009. 
In Park Halls view,  Mrs H went through a non-advised, execution-only, process to transfer her 
pension. She completed paperwork to open her SIPP  on 1 February 2010. Park Hall wrote to her on 
the same day to confirm  receipt of the paperwork and to outline details of the proposed  transaction. 
On 23 April,  Mr and Mrs H signed their Harlequin contract. Mrs Hs pension,  which  had a transfer 
value of £10,985, was transferred to the SIPP on 3 June.  On 24 June, Mr and Mrs H used their 
respective SIPPs to make the first payment on their Harlequin property. Between them,  Mr and Mrs H 
purchased 30% of the property. The remaining 70% was to be purchased by Mr and Mrs H at various 
points during the propertys construction.  On 7 July, Mr and Mrs H signed  an addendum to their 
Harlequin contract to account  for their joint ownership of the property.  Mr Hs share  was considerably  
larger. 
The development  has since run into trouble and is now illiquid and has limited value, prompting Mr 
and Mrs Hs complaint. The investigator looking into Mrs Hs complaint didnt think  it should be 
upheld. He thought Mrs Hs transaction had been conducted on an execution-only  basis so 
responsibility should be with Mrs H rather than Park Hall. Mrs H disagreed  with the investigators 
findings so the matter  has been referred to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive decided to not uphold Mrs Hs complaint. I 
explain why below.
Did Mrs H complain in time?
The rules under which I operate say that, where  a business  doesnt agree, I cant consider a 
complaint which is made more than six years after the event complained  of or, if later,  more than 
three years from the date the complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, that 
he had cause  for complaint.
Park Hall says Mrs H made her complaint too late under the rules. I issued a decision in August  2020 
explaining why I was satisfied Mrs H had complained  in time. But Park Hall maintains its position. As 
Ive already covered  its arguments  in some detail in my decision, I dont propose to revisit them all 
again here. However, there are two outstanding issues  that need addressing.
Ref: DRN44729315First, following my decision,  Park Hall said Mrs H hadnt given us all relevant  documents  in relation to 
her investment in Harlequin.  We went back to Mrs Hs representative and, again,  asked for everything 
Mrs H had. Some of the information provided in response looks to have been new and was forwarded 
on to Park Hall. But nothing pointed to Mrs H having been  aware of problems with the Harlequin 
development prior to July 2015  which is when I decided she was aware,  or should reasonably have 
become aware, of having cause for concern in relation  to the development. This is when her SIPP 
provider told her about  problems  in valuing the investment. As Mrs H complained in January  2018 my 
view was, and remains, that she complained in time under the three year part of the rules.
Second, Park Hall provided us with a 2012  announcement  from Harlequin  in relation to its former 
accountants. The announcement doesnt change my mind. It reads  like a press release, in which  case 
I see no reason  why Mrs H would have seen it. But even  if Mrs H had seen it, the announcement  
ends with an upbeat message about how the Harlequin  developments were progressing. So, if 
anything, this weakens Park Halls argument  because  the announcement  would have given  comfort to 
Mrs H that there  were no ongoing problems with her investment.
In short, I havent been provided with any substantive  new evidence in relation to when Mrs H ought, 
reasonably, to have had cause  for concern  in relation to her Harlequin investment. And Im satisfied 
all reasonable enquiries have been  made of the parties involved here. Therefore, for the reasons  
given above, and in my previous decision, Im satisfied Mrs H complained within three years of when 
she ought, reasonably, to have  been aware  of having cause for concern. It means  Mrs H complained 
to Park Hall within the relevant time limits.
The decision  to transfer
Park Hall says Mrs H transferred her pension  on a non-advised,  execution-only,  basis. I have my 
doubts about  this. It seems  to me Park Hall strayed into advising Mrs H as indicated by its 1 February  
2010 letter to her: 
I must point  out that the size of your fund is exceptionally small; the effect  of the deductions and fees 
associated with theSIPP will substantially  deplete the available funds. I have pointed this out in our 
various conversations and emails, however you wish to proceed with the transfer.
In pointing out the problem  of investing  a small amount in a SIPP  and doing  so at various points  
I think  Park Hall was advising Mrs H against the transfer. I dont  need to labour the point given  Park 
Hall seems to agree on this. In its response to Mrs Hs complaint  it made a number of statements  to 
say it had advised  Mrs H against transferring. For instance:  
As such, we have explicitly advised [Mrs H] against not only the investment but also the movement of 
her pension  at all. She decided not to follow our advice.
It follows from this that Mrs Hs transaction should be treated as an advised sale, meaning Park Hall 
had to ensure  the transaction was suitable for her. Clearly Park Hall didnt do this because  it was 
under the impression  that it was dealing  with her on an execution-only basis. Nevertheless, given 
what it told Mrs H at the time and in response to her complaint, it would be difficult to argue  that the 
transfer was suitable. 
I recognise Park Halls  concerns about  Mrs Hs SIPP fees were valid. Her pension was relatively small 
and the fixed fees of the SIPP  would  have had a disproportionate impact.  And, in fact, it wasnt long 
before Mrs H was being chased by the SIPP provider  because she didnt have enough funds  to pay 
her fees.  So in bringing  the issue to Mrs Hs attention,  Park Hall could  argue it was acting fairly  and in 
Mrs Hs best interests as per the regulators  principles (for instance, Principle 6  A firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them  fairly).  
However, if Park Hall was truly acting in Mrs Hs interests, it should have refused to transact on her 
behalf given it knew that proceeding was inadvisable. Alternatively, it could have put Mrs H through  a 
full advice process  and, if needed, a properly  documented insistent client process. Mrs H may not 
Ref: DRN44729316have taken kindly to any of this. But for Park Hall to categorise Mrs Hs transaction  as execution-only 
(and using  that categorisation to defend its actions) even  though  it had already advised  against the 
transaction (and using that advice to defend its actions too) wasnt the right approach to take. The 
rules dont allow for such a blurring of the boundaries  between advice and execution-only.
So I have doubts about  Park Halls execution-only process.  Not only did it stray  into advice, it elicited 
a response from Mrs H that she wanted to proceed  anyway which seems more akin to a poorly 
executed, poorly documented,  insistent client process. And even though  Park Hall knew the transfer 
wasnt in Mrs Hs best interest, it facilitated the transfer anyway. 
However, I think Mrs H would have proceeded with the transfer whatever  Park Halls actions.  Park 
Hall did, after all, say on more than one occasion that Mrs H shouldnt transfer.  But Mrs H chose to 
transfer nonetheless and did so even after giving  the matter due consideration   emails show she did 
query the fee issue in some  detail. And whilst  I have doubts about Park Halls execution-only process, 
at least  some of the risks of investing in commercial property (higher fees,  potential illiquidity and 
future financing for instance)  were provided  to Mrs H through  her direct offer pack. 
Its also notable that Mr H, who was investing in the same Harlequin development as Mrs H, was 
advised against transferring  his occupational pension  scheme benefits. Its evident from this that 
Mr and Mrs H were intent on transferring  given that they would,  reasonably, have known that doing so 
was inadvisable for both them and their partner. Mr and Mrs H had also previously tried to invest in 
Harlequin but were unable to do so because of financing issues. Given  they had a substantial buy-to-
let portfolio as well, I think it fair to say they had a long-standing interest in investing  in property and a 
particular interest in Harlequin. 
Given all the above, its difficult to argue  that Park Halls actions would  have made a difference here. 
In short, I think Mrs H would, likely, have transferred her pension and invested  in Harlequin whatever 
Park Halls  actions.  It follows that I dont intend to uphold her complaint.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, subject to any more  evidence  or arguments I receive from either  party, is to not 
uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN4472931