K821x#15complaint
Its agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept  responsibility for the complaint even though it didnt actually sell the insurance 
complained about.  To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to FICL in my decision.
Mrs S says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs S took out with a store card in November 2003. It 
was added to her account when  she applied for the card whilst shopping in the store.
Our adjudicator thought we should  uphold  the complaint.  She didn't think FICL had made the 
policys real cost and benefits  clear  enough  to Mrs S  and felt that if it had done, based on 
information Mrs S had told us about her financial situation when she took out the PPI, Mrs S 
probably wouldnt have  bought it.
FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that Mrs S had given us some new 
information about her circumstances after saying  something different to it when she first 
complained. Mrs S was now saying  that her financial situation  when  she took out the PPI 
was significantly better  than shed first suggested  before FICL rejected her complaint. FICL 
said that as Mrs S had provided conflicting information it was unable  to be satisfied that her 
means were  what she was now suggesting.
 
So our adjudicator asked Mrs S to provide us with some additional information  about her sick 
pay arrangements and the savings shed mentioned to us. And we also invited her to explain 
why she hadnt  mentioned  the information shed  now given us when she first complained  to 
FICL - and to let us know if shed been  able to check the information shed told us.  
We didnt hear anything back from Mrs S about  this. So the complaint came  to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Im currently thinking about  not upholding Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt reasonable  to expect Mrs S to remember  exactly what  was discussed when she took 
out PPI so long ago. I have to look at everything  and decide  what  I think is most likely. 
FICL has given us a copy of Mrs Ss completed store card application. Mrs S has signed in 
the PPI part of the form, next to where  it says Yes, I would like to protect  my Account with 
Account CoverPlease debit my Account  with the relevant  monthly premium until further 
notice. This was in addition to signing the completed application at the end, and it said only 
sign this box if you require  Account Cover  (which is what FICL called its PPI). I think its 
reasonable to expect Mrs S wouldve first read through anything she was asked to sign. So, 
although I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it wouldve been clear 
from the paperwork that it was up to Mrs S to say if she wanted to have PPI added on. 
Ref: DRN42185772Mrs S signed the completed form, so it seems  to me that she must  have agreed with the 
information on it at the time  even if, understandably, she has forgotten  this now. On 
balance, I find that Mrs S was aware  the policy was optional  and she chose to take it out.
As Mrs S completed this application  by filling  out a form in a store I dont think  a personal  
recommendation was made to her by FICL.  This means that FICL didnt have  to check if the 
policy was suitable  for her. But it still needed  to make sure it gave Mrs S enough clear 
information for her to decide if the policy was right for her, taking into account  her personal 
circumstances.
Its possible the information FICL  gave Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs S wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if 
better information had been provided.  
On balance I dont think better  information  wouldve stopped Mrs S taking out the PPI.
Ive not seen the particular policy she took out. But Ive looked at a policy document from 
FICL that provided  Account  Cover for this sort of account around the same time. I think its 
reasonable to assume that these  terms are the same as, or very similar to, those that 
wouldve applied to Mrs S. 
As far as I can see she was eligible for the cover. 
It doesnt look as if Mrs S was affected  by any of the main things the policy didnt cover.  So, 
I dont think more information about  the policy exclusions  and limitations wouldve made any 
difference to Mrs Ss decision to take out PPI. 
Mrs S mainly  complained  that she was covered for sickness from work and she had savings, 
so she feels she didnt  really need  PPI. 
Mrs S has now told us her sick pay entitlement at the time was 6 months full sick pay 
followed by 6 months on half pay and then statutory  pay. 
Our adjudicator felt that Mrs Ss sick pay arrangements, coupled with the five figure  amount 
of savings she told us shed had at the time, meant  that the cost of the policy outweighed the 
benefits it offered  her. 
But on the questionnaire she filled in originally  when she complained  to FICL she said she 
would only have had no pay or statutory pay if she was off sick. And she made no mention 
of any savings  even though one of the questions specifically asked about this.
 
Mrs S hasnt so far been able to provide much  detail about her circumstances or explain why 
she put forward contradictory information.  She may well be right about what shes  now said 
 but as she said something  different  when  she first complained, I cant reasonably say that 
shes correct in what she says now without seeing  some more supporting information, or at 
least having the inconsistencies  explained. So at the moment, Im assuming she wouldve 
had little or no sick pay and only had minimal, if any, savings.
Ref: DRN42185773The policy couldve  paid a benefit  for as long as Mrs S was off work sick. It wouldve paid out 
a benefit in addition to any sick pay. So this couldve been useful  especially if Mrs S 
mightve had some  extra costs as a result of illness or disability. The policy couldve kept on 
paying out for as long as Mrs S was off work sick  longer than she now says she couldve 
depended on getting full sick pay - and it couldve cleared her card balance  if she wasnt well 
enough to return  to work. 
The policy also provided cover if Mrs S lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
I dont know what any savings she had mightve  been intended  for, or if Mrs S wouldve 
always had savings to rely on if she hadnt been  able to work. And it was up to her to choose  
if she wanted to take out the PPI, knowing what her circumstances  were  at the time. 
Relying on someone  else to help out in the event  of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
And, although she mentioned having critical illness cover, PPI provided  a different sort of 
cover and paid out in different circumstances.
I dont think its likely  that FICL gave Mrs S clear enough information  about the costs of the 
PPI policy. But Mrs S chose to take out the policy when she didnt have  to  so she seems to 
have wanted it at the time. And she indicated on the application she signed to get the policy  
with the card that she was happy  to pay to have it, even if shes  forgotten  this now. 
If Mrs S can provide information  to show me that shes right in what  shes  now told us about 
her sick pay and savings  when she took out the PPI, or otherwise help me understand why 
she first of all gave  us some different information,  I will be able to review  her complaint 
further. But as things stand, I think the policy provided Mrs S with worthwhile  benefits.  And 
I cant fairly and reasonably uphold her complaint on the basis that the costs  werent  
outweighed by the benefits the policy offered her, in her particular circumstances  because  
theres no clear information to show me thats  the case.  
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  Mrs S, I currently  think it unlikely she 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance 
I think shed still have  taken out the policy. 
This means  that at the moment, even if FICL didnt provide  all the information  it shouldve 
done, based on all the information Ive seen I dont find that Mrs S has lost out as a result of 
anything that FICL  mightve done  wrong. So I dont think it needs to do anything to put things  
right.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mrs S has sent me a copy of her contract  of employment and this shows her sick pay 
entitlement as 26 weeks full pay  and beyond that it was discretionary.  
Shes also confirmed  she wouldve  had savings at the time although she no longer has 
statements going back that far to support this. 
Ref: DRN42185774my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Mrs S thinks  some  incorrect information  was previously passed on to us about her 
circumstances by her representative.  But she hasnt provided any further information that 
makes me think my provisional view isnt fair or reasonable. 
Ive taken into account that there  was a possibility of discretionary  sick pay being paid over 
and above the 26 week period in her contract. But her contractual entitlement is all she could 
safely rely on when she took out the PPI. Relying on an employer to pay sick pay when it 
doesnt have to isnt as dependable as taking  out PPI which guarantees a monthly benefit in 
the event of a successful  claim. And this policy couldve paid out for longer than Mrs S 
couldve depended on her employer paying  her sick pay. It couldve cleared  her card 
balance in full if she wasnt ever well enough  to go back to work. So this information  about 
her sick pay doesnt affect what I said in my provisional view.
Ive also taken into account that Mrs S mentioned having savings she couldve relied on  
but I havent seen any details about  this. So I cant assume Mrs S wouldve  had ready 
access to enough  money  to make PPI unsuitable when she took out her store card. And 
I dont know if she wouldve always had savings she could depend  on to make  her monthly 
repayments. So this information doesnt  change my decision.  
After taking carefully into account  everything thats  been said in response to my provisional 
decision, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision. 
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN4218577