K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains RCI Financial Services Limited  terminated her hire purchase  agreement 
and seeks to repossess  the vehicle. She wants to be able to maintain payments and retain 
the vehicle.
background
Mrs O told us she took out the agreement in January 2017. And she notified RCI in the 
following October that she was in financial  difficulties. She said shed agreed an 
arrangement to pay the arrears over three months.  She says shes  kept to the agreement 
and has continued  to pay the instalments. So she doesnt think it fair that RCI is going to 
repossess the vehicle  as shes disabled and relies on the vehicle  to get about to essential 
appointments.
RCI told us it had been aware  of Mrs Os financial  difficulties and had agreed  a payment 
arrangement with her. But shed broken the agreement.  It said it issued a default notice in 
February requiring  Mrs O to settle  the default  balance within  a month.  Whilst a part-payment  
had been made this didnt  settle the arrears and so it proceeded to terminate  the agreement.
RCI said it considered  a post- termination  arrangement but as Mrs O said she was in the 
process of instructing a debt management company  it felt it would be irresponsible to agree 
to such an arrangement. So it proceeded to instruct recovery agents.
The investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He gave  a detailed 
explanation of the history of the arrears. Ill not repeat this as Mrs O has seen it. But in 
summary he found a default notice was sent in February 2018. And as the arrears were not 
cleared by the scheduled date the agreement was terminated. He said RCI tried to enter into 
a post-termination agreement but a check showed  Mrs Os expenditure exceeded her 
income. So it felt it would be irresponsible to enter a payment arrangement and proceeded 
with the steps  needed  to recover the vehicle. He felt RCI had acted fairly.
Mrs O didnt agree and wanted  an ombudsman to make the final decision. She feels shes 
been discriminated against due to her health  condition.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry Mrs O is experiencing financial difficulties  and on top of her health  problems it 
cant be an easy time for her. So I understand why shes upset that shes at risk of losing her 
main means of transport.
Under the terms of the hire purchase agreement RCI is entitled to repossess the vehicle if 
payments on the agreement fall into arrears. But wed expect it to treat Mrs O with some 
forbearance and allow the opportunity to repay the arrears. It did that by agreeing to an 
arrangement whereby  the arrears were  to be paid off over three  months between November 
and January.
Ref: DRN43399842That didnt happen and in February RCI issued a default notice. When that was not paid off 
in full RCI terminated the agreement. And I think it was entitled to do so. Whilst some  
payments had been made the account was in arrears and the terms of the arrangement  had 
not been met. Although  payments had once more started to be made  RCI could not 
reasonably be expected  to hold off indefinitely. 
Once an agreement  is terminated in this way its usual for the creditor  to repossess the 
vehicle and sell it. The proceeds  are then set against the outstanding balance.  And where  - 
as is often the case - a deficit arises the customer  is liable to pay this.
But as Mrs O had paid more than a third of the sum owed under  the agreement  RCI couldnt 
repossess the vehicle  - if she didnt agree - without  a court order. RCI did consider a post- 
termination agreement. This is a means of RCI collecting  the outstanding debt but allowing 
Mrs O to retain use of the vehicle. But based on what it knew  of her financial situation  it felt 
she could not afford  the payments. So it declined to enter such an agreement.  And indeed 
the first steps in the recovery process  were commenced. 
By this time Mrs O had made her complaint to this service and the enquiry had commenced. 
Perhaps more  importantly she continued to make payments. And RCI decided  to suspend 
legal action pending the outcome of the complaint. The result is that the situation is now 
significantly changed and Mrs O owes around £2,500 less on the agreement  than she did at 
the time it was terminated. 
I must emphasise that this doesnt in itself affect my decision. The agreement was fairly 
terminated on the information RCI had at the time. And so I dont think it did anything wrong.
As we are an informal resolution service the investigator has maintained contact  with both 
parties whilst  the complaint has been  investigated. And has continued our efforts  to seek a 
resolution. As a result of this, and in the light of Mrs O maintaining payments, RCI has 
indicated it would reconsider  its position  about a post- termination agreement. That appears 
to be in compliance with its ongoing  responsibility to treat Mrs O fairly.  To that end Mrs O 
has now provided an up to date income and expenditure statement. 
I should explain that it is not for this service  to tell RCI whether or not to enter  such an 
agreement. That decision is for RCI. And it will depend on its assessment of Mrs Os ability 
to maintain such an agreement on a sustainable  basis. No doubt  it will take into account the 
fact that she has kept making payments throughout the period this complaint has been  
investigated. 
In summary,  Im satisfied  that it was fair and reasonable of RCI to terminate the agreement 
at the time it did. And so I wouldnt be asking it to do anything  in relation to that decision. For 
that reason Im not upholding  the complaint.
And whilst it does not affect my final decision, the fact that RCI has indicated  a willingness to 
reconsider the viability of a post- termination agreement also seems to me to be a fair and 
reasonable response to the changed situation.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN43399843Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4339984