K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) wont  accept  a 
claim under their home  insurance  policy for damage caused  by an infestation of moths.
background
Mr and Mrs B made  a claim  to RSA after discovering  an insect  infestation  under  their sofa. RSA 
declined  the claim.  It said their policy  didnt  cover  damage  caused  by insects.
Mr and Mrs B complained  to RSA.  They  didnt  think they should  have to pay for getting  rid of the 
infestation  and the cost of new underlay  and carpet.  They thought the infestation of moths was an 
unforeseen circumstance  and as such should have been covered by their policy.  RSA didnt 
change its decision.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service.  Our investigator  didnt think RSA had 
acted unfairly.
As Mr and Mrs B didnt agree, the matter has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy doesnt cover every sort of damage that might  happen  to their building 
and contents even if it is unforeseen. As is usual, there are a number of exclusions. One of 
these is headed  wear  and tear. I agree that an infestation of moths wouldnt normally 
considered to be wear  and tear but the actual wording of the exclusion is clear that this sort 
of damage isnt covered. It says:
Wear and tear
Any loss, damag e, liability, cost or expense of any kind caused directly or indirectly by or 
resulti ng from wear and tear, viruses, disease, deprec iation, repairs necessary in the normal  
course of mainte nance, corrosion, rusting, damp,  insects, vermin (except  for cover 4 under 
the Home Emerg ency Option ), fungus, condensation,  fading , frost or anythi ng which 
happe ns graduall y, the process of cleaning, dyein g, repair, alteration , renovati on or 
restor ation."
Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs B the home emergency section of the policy  doesnt  apply  to 
this type of damage either. It only covers  the removal of rats, mice, squirrels and wasps 
nests. 
Lastly as Mr and Mrs B have pointed  out, their policy  does include accidental  damage cover . 
Theres been no question that the damage was caused maliciously or on purpose. But, the 
exclusion mentioned  above applies to that section of the policy as well. 
Having checked  the policy carefully Im satisfied that RSA isnt liable for any damage to 
Mr and Mrs Bs home because of an underlying  problem of moths or other  insects.
Ref: DRN46070842my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 January  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4607084