K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained about seven loans he took out through  MYJAR Limited trading as 
MYJAR (MYJAR). He says the loans were  not affordable. 
Background
Mr W took six loans from MYJAR between August 2015 and August 2017. A summary of Mr 
Ws borrowing is shown below.
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalmentsAmount Highest 
Repayment
1 13/08/2015 30/10/2015 3 £300 £166.42
2 22/05/2016 27/05/2016 1 £150 £156.00
3 06/06/2016 30/08/2016 3 £600 £293.94
4 30/08/2016 02/09/2016 3 £600 £296.04
5 13/10/2016 30/11/2016 3 £300 £163.38
6 16/01/2017 25/05/2017 3 £300 £161.60
7 21/08/2017 22/02/2018 6 £225 £70.23
The adjudicator concluded that the overall pattern of borrowing suggested  Mr W had 
become persistently reliant on short-term loans  from loan 6 onwards so partially upheld  his 
complaint.
MYJAR didnt accept the adjudicators conclusions.  So as both parties  are still not in 
agreement, the complaint has been passed  to me, an ombudsman, to make  a decision. If Mr 
W accepts my findings it will be legally binding  on both parties.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
W could repay the loans  in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN47114842the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr W could  sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
MYJAR told us that, when  the loans were  taken, it asked Mr W for details of his income and 
expenditure costs.  It says it also carried out credit checks. Mr W was in the early  stages  of 
his relationship with MYJAR and the amounts  that Mr W needed to repay were relatively 
modest compared to his declared income.  Looking at MYJARs lending  to Mr W, I think  the 
checks for the first three loans went far enough and I dont think  MYJAR was wrong to lend 
Mr W those loans. 
However from loan 4 onwards, I think that MYJAR  should have been looking to build a clear  
picture of Mr Ws finances  before agreeing to lend. Mr Ws fourth loan was for a larger 
amount than when  he first approached  MYJAR  and by this stage he was borrowing from it 
for over 3 months from his second loan to his fourth. I think it would have  been  proportionate 
for MYJAR to take its checks further.  As Mr W hasnt provided  information about his actual  
circumstances at the time such as bank statements,  I cant say that a detailed  check  by 
MYJAR would have shown that he couldnt afford the loans and that it lent loans 4 and 5 
irresponsibly.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of MYJARs  lending history with Mr W, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR  should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Ref: DRN47114843Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ws case,  I think  that this point was reached by 
loan 6. I say this because:
A pattern had emerged where Mr W was borrowing shortly after he repaid his 
previous loan. I think that by loan 6, MYJAR ought fairly  and reasonably to have 
regarded that pattern  as established.
So MYJAR ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr W was having  to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Ws indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably.
Mr W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed MYJAR. Loan 6 was 
taken out more than 7 months after Mr Ws second loan and the amount borrowed 
had stayed at the same amount.  
Mr W had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service  a debt to MYJAR over 
an extended period.
I think that Mr W lost out because MYJAR continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness  by allowing 
him to take expensive  credit intended for short-term use over an extended  period  of 
time.
The sheer number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Mr Ws 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 6 and 7 and MYJAR should put things right as 
set out below.
Putting things right
MYJAR  shouldnt  have  given  Mr W loans  6 and 7.
refund  all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans 6 and 7,
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*,
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 and 7 should be removed from 
Mr Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr W a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one
Ref: DRN47114844My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Mr Ws complaint. I require  MYJAR  Limited  trading 
as MYJAR  to put things right for Mr W as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4711484