K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that their broker Police Mutual Assurance Society Limited  were  
responsible for the late completion  of their re-mortgage so for a short period their mortgage 
reverted to the Standard Variable Rate (SVR).  They  would like compensation for that.
background
Mr and Mrs W had a mortgage  and they engaged Police Mutual  to get them  a new mortgage 
product when their existing fixed rate product ended. The existing  deal ended  on 28 
February 2019 but the new mortgage product  didnt  start until 4 March  2019 and Mr and Mrs 
W had to pay interest  at the SVR for those days.
Police Mutual says that although  it arranged  the mortgage product it wasnt  responsible for 
the actual completion  date which  was a matter between Mr and Mrs W and their 
conveyancer. Our investigator didnt consider that it was Police Mutuals fault that the 
mortgage didnt  complete  on 1 March and so didnt  recommend that this complaint should be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs W disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W engaged Police  Mutual  in plenty of time to arrange  a new mortgage product 
for them when  their existing product expired. Police  Mutual got Mr and Mrs W a mortgage  
offer with the new mortgage product. But Police Mutual  didnt have control of the actual date 
of completion as that was between Mr and Mrs W and their conveyancer.  It seems that the 
conveyancers sent out a letter to Mr and Mrs W with an accompanying questionnaire to 
assist them  with the completion.  
Mr and Mrs W responded and the conveyancers arranged the completion date with that 
information. As Police Mutual wasnt involved in providing that information to the 
conveyancer, I dont believe that I can fairly  find Police Mutual at fault if the completion date 
didnt meet Mr and Mrs Ws expectations. So I dont uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 November  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4362550