K821x#15complaint
Ms B is unhappy with the quality of a kitchen she had installed  which was part financed by 
a loan she took out with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (Clydesdale). She brings 
this complaint against Clydesdale under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(section 75).
background
Ms B had a new kitchen  installed  in her house  in June 2017. She partly financed  the kitchen 
and its installation through a point of sale loan with Clydesdale.  Shortly  after, Ms B 
complained to the supplier as she was unhappy  with the quality of the goods, the installation 
and the mess she says the supplier left behind. Following this, some  new parts were ordered 
and the suppliers returned to the property.  But Ms B remained  unhappy with the results   
and complained again to the supplier. 
In September  2017, Ms B commissioned an independent report  by a local firm to assess  the 
quality of the kitchen. In this report,  many  issues were  documented,  including poorly installed 
units and appliances,  lack of ventilation, and detailed  commentary  on the workmanship and 
quality of the units themselves. The report was detailed and included  photographic evidence. 
It also recommended that the kitchen was replaced, rather  than repaired.  The supplier has 
said that, following  on from this report, Ms B asked for a 90% reduction in the price  of her 
kitchen  which they didnt agree to.
In November 2017, another independent  review took place  completed by a relevant 
dispute resolution body. This second report detailed some issues  the previous report  
covered and also included photographic evidence. But it concluded that  while  there were a 
lot of problems  with the kitchen  it could be repaired  without causing  too much  disruption. 
The only exception here was rectifying  the issues with the sink unit in the utility room  which  
would likely  mean the expensive wallpaper Ms B had decorated the room  with would get 
damaged.
The supplier  said they accepted what this second  report recommended  and made the 
following offers to Ms B:
Complete the work set out by the report
Refund the cost of the work as outlined in the report (around £2500)
Supply the items highlighted in the report, plus £400 to cover installations   although 
they pointed out this would avoid their installation warranty.
Ms B wasnt happy with these offers, so she raised a section  75 complaint with Clydesdale in 
February 2018. Under section 75 a consumer can, in certain circumstances, complain to 
their credit provider about goods or services  theyve bought from a separate supplier. There 
has to be a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship  in Ms Bs case  she was the debtor, 
Clydesdale the creditor and the kitchen  company  the supplier. And the claim has to be for a 
breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Around the same time, Ms B pursued  a separate section 75 complaint with another  finance 
provider. While thats a separate  complaint, Ms B was refunded around £10,000.
In response to Ms Bs complaint, Clydesdale agreed  that something  needed  to be done  to 
put things right. But they questioned the independence  of the person who completed Ms Bs 
Ref: DRN45183922report and decided to rely on the second one from the dispute  resolution body. They  also 
thought the supplier had been  reasonable in their efforts to resolve the situation.
I sent Ms B and Clydesdale my provisional decision on 22 February 2019 and said I was 
thinking of upholding Ms Bs complaint  but had explained my reasons in more detail. And I 
said both parties could send me any further  for me to consider by 8 March 2019.
Clydesdale have let me know  that they accept  my recommendation.  Ms B also accepted my 
decision, but was concerned that shed need to replace more  of the wallpaper that was likely 
to be damaged when her existing kitchen was removed. Ive reflected this in my final 
decision  and also made Clydesdale aware  of this small  change.
Ive set out my full reasoning again  below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Ive decided to uphold 
Ms Bs complaint  and Ill explain why I think thats a fair answer.
has there been a breach of contract or misrepresentation?
As Ive said,  under  section 75, if the correct debtor-creditor-supplier relationship has been  
established, then a consumer can bring a like claim against the creditor  for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. And I can see in Ms Bs case, this relationship 
is in place. So Ive next considered whether theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation.
The relevant  law says the goods need  to be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose  at the 
point of sale  and the services should  have been  performed with reasonable skill and care.  
If this isnt the case, then a breach of contract  can be said to have occurred.
Having looked  at all the evidence available  including the two reports, the quotes for 
replacing the kitchen  and associated commentary, video footage  and photographs   I dont 
think the suppliers  services were performed with reasonable skill or care either.  So, I think 
theres been a breach of contract here.
This doesnt seem to be in dispute  here by either Ms B or Clydesdale   and as thats the 
case, I wont focus much further detail on that. But what needs to be done  to put things right 
is in dispute. So, my decision will focus  on that.
what should the remedy be?
When a breach of contract is established under section 75, wed expect the finance provider 
to take steps to put things  right, as if the breach hadnt occurred. In Ms Bs case, that might 
mean taking  steps  to replace or repair the kitchen and make good  what has gone wrong  or 
going as far as taking out the kitchen or unwinding the loan.
Clydesdale doesnt  think they need to go as far as taking the kitchen out to put things right. 
Theyve said the report produced by the alternative  dispute body recommended  that the 
faults could be repaired and would take about a day. They think  they can rely on this as an 
independent view.
Ref: DRN45183923Theyve also disputed  whether  the person who completed an independent  inspection  for   
Ms B could be considered to be truly independent. Among  other  things, as part of that 
argument, theyve  pointed out that this person provided one of the quotes that Ms B obtained  
 suggesting they have  a conflict  of interest.  I can understand why they might  have some  
concern on that part.
But Ive seen several other quotes  from different businesses  all of which  only quote for 
replacing the kitchen.  And two of these  businesses have explicitly  said that the kitchen 
cannot be repaired, only replaced. One of these gave a detailed letter that indicates the 
repairs required are extensive and not just a days work. With practical difficulties such as 
sourcing parts etc., theyre  unwilling  to get involved. Neither of these businesses  are the one 
Clydesdale have called into question regarding the conflict of interest.
Also Ms B has provided evidence of continued  issues, including doors  falling off  which  
indicates to me that the extent of the issues  appear wider than the report  from the other 
dispute resolution body. Further, the report provided  by Ms Bs inspector is far more detailed  
in its breakdown of issues than the other report from the dispute  resolution body. Ms Bs 
inspectors report includes  more photographic evidence  than the other report   and these 
support the issues detailed  within  it. This could indicate  as Ms B has implied  that her 
inspector spent more  time looking into the issues Ms B had reported. And the quotes from 
other businesses  and their commentary   support these findings.
So, considering about these points  in the round, I think on balance  this does support the 
argument that Ms Bs kitchen might  not be repairable.
It also seems  that only the original  supplier seems prepared to repair  Ms Bs kitchen  Ms B 
has indicated theyve  already had several  unsuccessful attempts to do this and was unhappy 
with the results each  time. And, as Ive said, Ms B is still identifying  problems with her 
kitchen. I can also see that the relationship between Ms B and the supplier  has broken down 
 so I dont think  it would be reasonable to say Ms B should  allow them back  yet again  to fix 
the kitchen. Im also not convinced that if the supplier did return  to repair  the kitchen that this 
would likely  bring  an end to the dispute.  Further, as theres been evidence  of things 
deteriorating further, I also dont think a repair and/or  a partial  refund  would  be practical 
solution.
Weighing everything up, while I understand Clydesdales position, I still think theres  enough 
evidence to suggest that Ms Bs kitchen  cannot be reasonably repaired  and I think it needs 
to be replaced. Further,  for reasons Ive mentioned above, I dont think  a partial refund would 
be a satisfactory outcome  either.  So Im recommending that Ms Bs kitchen is removed and 
the finance contract with Clydesdale is unwound   Ive included more  specific instructions 
under putting things  right.
the cost of additional items likely damaged by removing the kitchen
Ms B has said replacing her kitchen would cause a lot of disruption  and also damage the 
wallpaper, paintwork,  tiles and flooring shes paid for separately.  Clydesdale  have said that 
Ms B went ahead with the tiling, flooring and decorative work even though  she wasnt  happy  
with the kitchen and utility  area. So they dont think its necessarily fair they should  be held 
responsible for any potential damage caused when the kitchen is removed. But Ive not seen 
anything to suggest Ms B was aware of the extent of the work that might be needed to put 
things right at the time the decorating  went ahead.
Ref: DRN45183924So, I think Clydesdale should also cover  some of the costs incurred because  of any damage 
to these items when  the kitchen is removed.
further compensation
Ms B also feels she should be compensated for the distress  and inconvenience  the supplier 
has caused her. Its clear  the level of service  delivered by the supplier was lower  than 
expected. But under a section 75 complaint, Im only looking at what the finance provider  
in this case Clydesdale  have done or need  to do in response to her like claim for breach 
of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
So I think it is relevant  to consider what compensation a court might award against the 
supplier in similar circumstances. Compensation for distress and inconvenience  is often  
limited in this type of contract as with any building work there  is an expectation of a level of 
disruption and inconvenience.
However, I do recognise that having  the kitchen taken out is going to cause some  physical  
inconvenience and discomfort  that wouldnt have happened if things had gone  as they 
should. And this is something I can ask Clydesdale to compensate her for, as its directly 
linked to the remedy Im asking them  to apply in this complaint. I can also see that Ms B has 
made some effort to avoid  this disruption  and inconvenience by seeking several quotes to 
get her kitchen repaired instead.  So, with this in mind, in the specific circumstances of this 
complaint, I think some  modest  compensation is appropriate. Im going to ask Clydesdale  to 
compensate Ms B £200 for the physical  discomfort and inconvenience that the removal  of 
her kitchen will likely cause her.
putting things right
As well as removing the kitchen and unwinding the loan,  Ive said Clydesdale  also need  to 
cover the costs for any damage  to wallpaper, tiles, paintwork  and flooring related to the 
removal of the kitchen. Ive been given some details about how much these additional items 
might cost to replace   this includes installation costs for some,  but not all items. Where  
installation costs have  not been  provided, Ive added  my own estimate based on current  
costings available.
As the damage  to these items is currently unknown, these figures should be taken as the 
maximum amount Clydesdale should pay Ms B.
So, Clydesdale should pay up to the following amounts:
three rolls of the utility  room wallpaper at £410  per roll, plus £150  installation 
costs
kitchen wall tiles at £179, plus £75 installation costs
paintwork at £930, plus £150  installation costs
utility room carpet at £370 including installation costs
kitchen floor tiles at £574, plus £150 installation costs
This will be subject to Ms B providing Clydesdale with evidence of these  additional costs,  for 
example receipts  or invoices.
In summary,  to put things right, Clydesdale should do all of the following:
end Ms Bs point  of sale loan with nothing further to pay
Ref: DRN45183925remove the entry from her credit file, including any adverse records  that might 
have been recorded
arrange for the kitchen to be removed and cover the cost of this work, including 
removing all debris from Ms Bs property  and leaving it clean;  this should be 
completed by a different supplier from the one who originally fitted it
compensate Ms B up to £3808 for potential damage caused to items she paid for 
separately  as set out above
pay £200 for the physical discomfort and inconvenience caused  by the kitchen 
being removed
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold Ms Bs complaint against Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited   and 
they should put things  right by following what Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Guy Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4518392