K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains HSBC UK Bank  Plc will not refund some disputed transactions  carried  out 
on his credit card.
background
Mr S made a telephone call to HSBC on 9th January  2018.  He said he had noticed the 
balance on his credit  card was higher than he had expected and queried several 
transactions made between 1st November and 11th November 2017.
When he spoke to the fraud team,  he explained  the following:
-he had just received  his statement  for October and noticed the balance was 
unusually high
-he had been  to an ATM to work  out what was going on - but the ATM  had swallowed 
his card  hence why he was now calling;
-towards the end of October, he had received a call from someone purporting to be 
from HSBC telling  him his card had been  compromised and needed to be replaced;
-a courier had arrived at his home,  handed Mr S a new card and took his old card;
-he hadnt shared  his PIN with this individual;
-the last genuine use of the card had been on 28th October;
-he now realises the person on the phone  was probably not from HSBC
-he was currently looking at his online banking and could  see two credits  into his 
account and two debits.  He denied  knowing anything  about these;
HSBC initially refunded the amounts  and advised  they would be re-debited if the evidence 
showed the payments had been authorised.
Following its investigation,  HSBC decided to decline Mr S complaint.  It said it was going to 
hold him liable because the evidence did in fact show he had authorised  the transactions.   
His genuine card and PIN had been  used  to make a number of point  of sale transactions. 
So, Mr S came to this service.
In response to our initial questions, in summary, he said the following:
-he kept his secure key (to enable online access)  in his bedroom  drawer and only his 
partner had access;
-he had never shared  his PIN with anyone;
-the first he knew about the transactions was when he went  to the ATM to change his 
PIN and the ATM retained the replacement card;
-he didnt use his online banking regularly  because he didnt  use the card regularly;
-he hadnt logged  on to online banking during the times of the disputed transactions;
-at around the same  time as these transactions took place, several attempts had been 
made by fraudsters to take out finance, credit cards  and short-term loans in his 
name.
Our investigator didnt  think she could  ask HSBC to do anymore so Mr S made further  
submissions and asked  that an ombudsman consider  his complaint.
Ref: DRN48320682my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules  of our service mean that I must determine this complaint by reference to what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. When  considering  
whats fair and reasonable I am required  to take into account;  relevant law and regulations;  
regulators rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate what I 
consider to have  been good industry  practice  at the relevant  time.   
Where there are gaps  in the evidence, for whatever reason, I will decide what  I think  is most 
likely to have happened  having  regard to all the circumstances.  
The transactions from Mr Ss account were made in November 2017.  So, of relevance to my 
decision about what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2009  (PSR 2009).
Also, of relevance  here is the Consumer Credit Act 1974  in particular Section 83.  This 
says the consumer wont be liable for any loss from the misuse of their credit facility unless 
they (or someone acting  as their agent) used the facility.   Section 84 of the same  Act goes 
on to say that the consumer may be liable  for any loss caused  by misuse by someone who 
has acquired the credit token with the cardholders  consent.
So, I need to decide, taking all relevant rules and evidence into account, whether I think 
HSBC has acted fairly in rejecting Mr Ss complaint.   If I conclude  it was more likely  than not 
that Mr S authorised  these payments, then HSBC is entitled to hold him liable.
But authority  isnt just about Mr Ss card and correct PIN being used  its also about 
whether Mr S consented to these transactions.  
Unfortunately, neither  the PSR 2009 nor the FCAs 2013 guidance on PSR 2009 provide a 
definition of consent.   I therefore think it is fair, when considering whether consent was 
given, to apply  the common definition of consent,  which is to give permission for something 
to happen. 
So, based  on the evidence I have seen,  I am satisfied the transactions  were  authenticated. 
That is, Mr Ss genuine  card and PIN were used to make the transactions.   I then need  to 
decide if Mr S consented to them  being made.
It seems  to me the starting  point  is to consider the scenario  in which  Mr S says his card was 
taken by fraudsters  and replaced  with another  because this is the point at which, on Mr Ss 
account, his card leaves  his possession.  However,  I also must keep in mind,  depending on 
my findings,  that whilst this may explain how the card came to be compromised, it does not 
explain how Mr Ss PIN came to be compromised.  
Of course,  I remind  myself that the test for authorisation  is not met simply by unexplained 
circumstances surrounding  a PIN compromise.
Ive considered the circumstances  of this case, the written evidence  and Mr Ss accounts  
given to HSBC  as well as to this service   and Im not persuaded, on balance, that he did 
hand his card over to fraudsters.  I think Mr S authorised  these transactions   either by 
carrying them out himself  or by allowing  someone else to carry them  out with his authority.
Ref: DRN48320683Ive relied on the following in making  my findings:
-Mr Ss account as to how he discovered the disputed transactions  differs  from what 
he told HSBC and what he told this service.  He originally said he had discovered a 
high balance  upon receiving a statement.  He  had gone to the ATM to check   and 
this is when his replacement card was retained.   He told this service  he had visited  
the ATM in order to change his PIN and this is when his replacement  card had been 
retained. He has never explained why he was changing his PIN, considering the card 
was one he did not use that often;
-the credit  card account  was registered  for online banking.  A considerable balance  
had been used on the card and I think its more likely that upon  receiving  such  news,  
a customer would  use a means  more immediate to them rather than having to travel 
to an ATM;
-staying with online banking  Mr S first told this service (in his email  to the 
investigator) that he did have online banking, but he did not recall logging  in during 
the period of the disputed  transactions.   In his subsequent response to the 
investigators view (when it was pointed out that Mr Ss online banking  had been  
accessed on a number of occasions) he said she had misunderstood his responses 
and he now accepted he may have logged on on a number of occasions but never to 
check his credit card.  I  dont  find Mr Ss responses to be credible;
-upon receiving  the call on 30th October from the fraudsters purporting to be HSBC, 
Mr S says he handed his card over having been told there  were  some suspicious 
transactions on the account. Considering Mr Ss subsequent activity on his online 
banking, I think it would be more  likely  than not that he would have checked  his 
account online and seen that in fact, there had not been any suspicious transactions;
-if I were to accept Mr S handed his card over to a fraudster, and I have made  it clear  
that I do not, there is no credible explanation as to how Mr Ss PIN had been  
compromised.  He submits he was watched  but he last used his PIN on 20th 
October 2017.  On  balance, I dont think a fraudster  would have waited ten days  
before attempting to obtain Mr Ss card in the way he describes;
I have also considered the following:
-that this account  of Mr Ss has previously been targeted  by fraudsters on two 
separate occasions;
-Mr Ss submitted evidence which suggests he may have been a victim of identity 
theft at the same time as these  transactions were carried  out;
-HSBC did not approach  the ATM owner  to see if Mr Ss replacement  card had indeed 
been retained;
-Mr S had applied to increase his credit limit on the day the first disputed  transaction  
took place;
-the time in between  the transactions taking place  and whether this can be said to be 
normal behaviour attributed to fraudsters;
-similarly, the type of transactions and the attempt  to pay in two fraudulent cheques in 
order to temporarily increase the available balance;
Ive carefully considered  whether I should place any weight on these factors  and I have  
concluded that I do not because I dont accept Mr Ss credit card had been  handed  over to 
fraudsters in the first instance.  It must follow therefore, that the activity  on the account 
during this period, was conducted  with Mr Ss consent and authorisation.
Ref: DRN48320684So, for the reasons given above,  I will not be asking HSBC to refund this money  to Mr S.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 November  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4832068