K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Y have  complained that The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS) mis-sold a 
Royalties account  to them in 1997.  Mr and Mrs Y have said that they took out this account 
as they were told it would  allow them to get personal  loans and a mortgage  in the future.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and didnt think  the Royalties 
account had been mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs Y did not agree with this and asked  for an ombudsmans decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  what to do about Mr and Mrs Ys complaint.  
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive seen on this complaint, Im not upholding     
this complaint. Id like to explain  reasons for my decision in a bit more detail.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs Y were given a clear choice in taking  this 
account. At this point,  it may help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened  having weighed up what  Mr and Mrs Y and 
RBS have been able to provide me with. 
Mr and Mrs Y upgraded to the fee paying  Royalties account from a free one theyd had for a 
number of years. So I think they wouldve known that RBS did free accounts and that they 
couldve had one of those if thats what they really wanted. 
Mr and Mrs Y say that they took out the account  in order  to get personal loans or a mortgage  
in the future. But I can see they had personal  loans in the past with RBS and I cant  see that 
there were any declined applications for credit prior to taking out the account. So I cant see 
why Mr and Mrs Y wouldve believed that they suddenly were unable  to get credit without 
changing to a fee paid account. 
I can see that a loan was taken out around the time of the upgrade. One of the benefits of 
the account was a 1% discount  on loan interest  rates. Given the passage  of time since  the 
account was taken out, I cannot see whether the loan received a preferential  interest  rate. 
But given the timings, I think that it is likely  that it did. So I think  it was to get a better rate on 
a loan, rather than to get a loan, that persuaded Mr and Mrs Y to agree to the upgrade.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think that RBS recommended the packaged account to 
Mr and Mrs Y. So this means that it didnt have to check  if the account was right for them. It 
was up to Mr and Mrs Y to decide this for themselves. I think  its likely that Mr and Mrs Y 
wouldve been provided with an outline  of what the main benefits on the account were  before 
they agreed to it  after all RBS wouldve  been trying to persuade  them to agree to a 
packaged account, when they knew they could instead stay on a fee free one. And setting 
out what benefits they would get in return for the account fee was probably the best way to 
do this. 
Ref: DRN40018552At the time the Royalties  account was taken  out some of the benefits  were payment card 
protection, accidental  death cover, £100 interest  free overdraft with preferential  rates  above  
this amount and the interest rate discount  on loans. I cannot see any reason why Mr and Mrs 
Y could  not have  made use of these  benefits  and I think it is likely that they did use the 
overdraft and personal loan benefits. 
Overall I think  Mr and Mrs Y did use some of the benefits and they were  eligible for and 
couldve used some of the others too. So while Im open to the possibility that they may not 
have been told absolutely everything  they needed to know about all of the benefits, I think  
they were told enough  for them to be able to decide  if the account was right for them. And I 
have not seen anything specific that they were  not told that I think  wouldve altered their 
decision to take out the account.
Mr and Mrs Y may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, think they shouldnt  have chosen this 
account. And given  what they mightve read or heard about packaged accounts in general,  
I can understand why they might think this account was mis-sold.  But I think its most likely 
that Mr and Mrs Y chose this account  knowing what it included.  And although they may now 
think it hasnt proved to be value  for money, or that they perhaps shouldnt have taken it in 
the first place, this doesnt mean  it was mis-sold.  
So I want to reassure Mr and Mrs Y that having  looked at all the information provided  and 
thought about everything  theyve told us, I dont  think RBS mis-sold the packaged  account  to 
them. Although I appreciate that thisll be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs Y, I hope that 
they at least feel their concerns have been  listened to.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ys complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4001855