K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that, when they sold one of their properties, Barclays  Bank 
UK PLC retained £50,000 from the proceeds  of sale as security for business debts. To settle  
the complaint  Mr and Mrs G would like Barclays to release the £50,000,  and reimburse their 
losses, which they estimate to be £28,000.
background
This complaint concerns  various businesses run by Mr and Mrs G, one as a limited company 
(of which Mrs N was the sole director) and the others in their capacity as sole traders. The 
businesses all operated  under  the same trading style. What happened is as follows:
On 10 July 2012 Mrs G took out a commercial mortgage with Barclays for £350,000. The 
mortgage deed was an all monies charge, which meant that it secured not just the loan but 
all other indebtedness  owed by the borrower.
The security  offered was a property I will call WR, which was owned jointly by Mr and Mrs G. 
This was valued at £300,000, so Barclays wanted  additional security.  Mr and Mrs G offered 
a property I will call TB. This was valued at £190,000 and so provided adequate security for 
Barclays.
In April 2016 WR was sold for £555,000. The loan was to be retained  and Mr and Mrs G 
offered additional  security  of a property I will call SL. The two properties, TB and SL, were 
valued at £245,000 and £175,000 respectively, giving total security of £420,000. Barclays 
agreed to accept this reduced security, but asked  for up-to-date accounts for the business. 
Barclays had noted that the current account had exceeded its overdraft  and that there were 
unpaid items  on the account. 
Mr and Mrs G said that after WR had been  sold Barclays  was instructed to release the funds 
so they could pay off the mortgage on their residential home. But Barclays refused to do so. 
In August  2016,  after much negotiation with the bank, Barclays  agreed to release £225,000, 
and a part-redemption of the mortgage  was made.
Barclays refused to release the remaining funds  for over a year,  but in October 2017 
£273,000 was released, which Mr and Mrs G used to repay  the balance  of their residential 
mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs G say that the length of time Barclays took to deal with this has meant  they paid 
about £24,000 in interest  on their mortgage. They  also say that delay by Barclays in 
releasing the deeds to the property  resulted  in their buyer demanding a reduction of £4,000  
in the asking price.
In its final response letter  Barclays said that it was entitled to retain the £50,000 pending  
receipt of information  about the businesses accounts. Barclays  paid Mr and Mrs G £100 
compensation for delay in dealing with the complaint.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr and Mrs G brought  their complaint to us. It was 
considered by an investigator. The investigator  was satisfied that the complaint  about the 
delay in releasing the deeds had been  brought too late  more than six months after the final 
response letter. Mr and Mrs G accepted they were  too late to complain about this. The 
Ref: DRN44407412investigator didnt  think  the complaint about  retention of £50,000  should  be upheld. He was 
satisfied Barclays was entitled to retain the £50,000  for valid commercial  reasons.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman  to review the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
Where a complaint  is about the exercise  by a bank of its commercial  judgement,  my role is 
to consider whether that judgment has been  exercised  fairly.  In other words, did Barclays  
give fair and proper consideration to all relevant factors before reaching its decision to retain 
the £50,000 from the proceeds of sale of WR?  Where a decision has been reached fairly,  I 
dont have any power to interfere  with it, and I cant substitute my own decision for that of the 
bank, if the banks commercial judgment has been fairly exercised.
Barclays is entitled, when  lending money to business customers, to determine the level of 
risk to which it is prepared to be exposed and to mitigate that risk as it thinks  fit.
Ive reviewed all the banks notes from the relevant period. I can see that at the time they 
were selling WR, Mr and Mrs G had discussions with Barclays about the loan and the way 
their various business accounts were being run. Barclays had noted that Mrs G had changed  
from a sole trader to limited company status. Mr G said this was due to guidance from his 
and Mrs Gs professional body, which required that sole traders with five or more  outlets had 
to be registered  as a limited  company.
Barclays wanted a personal guarantee and debenture, and records at Companies House 
show that Barclays was granted  a charge over the limited companys  assets  on 31 May 
2017. It is not clear  whether or not the limited company  is still trading.  Mrs G is no longer a 
director and there is no current director listed at Companies House.
Ive reviewed the history  of the accounts,  and taken note of the fact that Mrs G had given 
Barclays an all monies charge over WR and any other substituted security. From the 
account statements, Im satisfied Barclays concerns over the conduct of the accounts was 
legitimate, particularly given that at least one part of Mr and Mrs Gs businesses  had moved  
from sole trader to limited  company status.
Ref: DRN44407413I note that Barclays had made Mr and Mrs G aware  that the bank would retain £50,000 from 
the proceeds of sale of WR in advance.  Im satisfied it was reasonable for Barclays to retain 
the funds, given the concerns the bank had over the operation of the accounts.  I can see 
from Barclays notes that careful consideration was given to how it could best support the 
businesses, including  the security offered and Mr and Mrs Gs proposals for how they would 
be running their businesses going forward.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that Barclays decision to retain £50,000 from the 
proceeds of sale of WR was reached  fairly  and reasonably.  Barclays  considered the status 
of the various  businesses  Mr and Mrs G were  operating. Having done so, Barclays  was 
entitled to reduce its exposure to risk by retaining  the £50,000.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G will be disappointed by my decision,  but after giving very careful 
consideration to everything theyve said, Im unable  to find that Barclays has treated them  
unfairly or unreasonably.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means  that we are unable to consider the complaint any further,  nor enter  into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 July 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4440741