K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs complaint against Virgin Money plc (Virgin)  is that its advertising  for an instant 
decision in respect of an online credit  card application was misleading.
background
In January 2019, Mr R applied  online  for a Virgin credit card. He was partly  induced to do so 
by its advertising claim that hed get an instant decision. But he didnt get a yes or a no. He 
was referred to Virgins underwriters for further consideration, and was told this would take a 
few days. 
Mr R then successfully applied for another credit card,  so called Virgin  to cancel his 
application, and to ask that a record of it be removed from his credit file. Virgin  cancelled  the 
application, but said it couldnt  remove the record of it because  it was factually correct and it 
was obliged to report it.
Mr R was unhappy about this. First of all he believed that Virgin has misled  him that hed find 
out immediately  if hed get the credit card or not. And second,  that it wasnt fair that there  
was a record of his application on his credit file, when this was only because hed been 
misled, and the application had been cancelled.
Virgin didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint, so he came to our service.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters and concluded  that while he could partly understand 
Mr Rs point about Virgins  advertising  not being  clear enough, he didnt think  hed been  
misled or poorly treated.  He advised that our service isnt Virgins regulator,  so its not for us 
to tell it how to advertise.  
He also felt Virgin was right in respect  of the credit file. And that this was a factual record  of 
what had happened, which is that Mr R applied  for a credit card, and that he was aware that 
the application would be recorded before  he made it.
Mr F still disagreed. He believed that a decision was to be either an approval  or rejection  a 
yes, or a no. And that as such Virgin had been  misleading. He asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think its an interesting complaint, and one in which stateable  arguments 
can be made for both sides.  My role is to look at all the evidence, and reach an outcome that 
I thinks fair to both parties. As our service is an informal alternative to the courts,  I can look 
at matters to some  degree  legally, but also pragmatically, to ultimately reach a decision I feel 
is fair and reasonable. 
Ive done this here, and Im in agreement  with our Investigator  that I cant uphold this 
complaint. To do so Id need to see an error,  or poor treatment of Mr R, by Virgin that caused 
him detriment. But I dont think its made a mistake or treated Mr R unfairly. 
Ref: DRN49455982Mr R submits that an instant decision, as referred to by Virgin, should  have  been  a yes or 
no. But I dont  think thats right. A decision need  not be binary.  It needs  only to be a 
conclusion or judgement  reached after consideration. In Mr Fs case,  a decision was made, 
and this was to refer his case  for further consideration. I think  this is no less a decision than 
an approval or rejection, albeit it was obviously inconvenient  for Mr F. 
So I cant agree  that Virgins  assurance  was so misleading that it had an adverse impact on 
Mr R. Well never know if hed have eventually been  given a yes or a no, as he cancelled  his 
application. But in any event, our Investigator was correct  to say that were not Virgins  
regulator (thats the role of the FCA  Financial  Conduct Authority). So even if I did consider 
its advertising not to be sufficiently clear, this isnt something I could ask it to change.
As to the matter  of the record  of the application remaining on Mr Rs credit  file, I cant  say 
this is unfair.  Its a matter  of fact that he applied for a credit card with Virgin. And he did so 
being aware that his application would generate a search  that would be recorded. Im 
satisfied he was aware of this. Notwithstanding  that the application was cancelled, this was 
only after the search had been  carried out, so the record  of the search  is factually accurate. 
And its Virgins responsibility to report this. 
Im sorry  that Mr R feels he was misled, and that this has resulted in a disadvantage  to his 
credit record. But Ive not seen evidence to prove  to me that this alone  has disadvantaged 
him, and I see our Investigator tried to allay some of his concerns in this regard. 
I appreciate Mr R may still disagree  with my decision, but I hope Ive explained why its the 
only fair outcome  I can reach on the evidence before me.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4945598