K821x#15complaint
Mr I complains about charges for additional usage when his contract hire agreement  with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  ended.
background
In December 2015 Mr I entered  into a contract hire agreement with MBFS. The contract  
reached maturity on 24 December 2017. Towards the end of the contact, a company acting 
on the instruction  of MBFS  contacted  Mr I to arrange  a collection date. This was initially 
arranged for 9 January 2018  due to the fact that the company was closed  over the 
Christmas and New Year period.
In early January  2018 Mr I contacted  the company and asked to keep the car for a few more 
days until 18 January  2018.
MBFS asked Mr I to pay additional usage  charges for 23 days. Mr I felt this was unfair  
because it wasnt his fault that the car couldnt be collected over the Christmas period. Mr I 
said he was willing to pay for 9 additional days but he didnt agree to the 23 days  sought by 
MBFS and felt that it should pay him compensation for the distress caused by the debt 
collection letters hed received.
Since the complaint was brought to this service, MBFS has agreed to remove the first 15 
days of charges leaving Mr I to pay for 9 additional days  totalling  £109.03.
Our investigator passed this offer to Mr I but he remained unhappy and said that if this 
service hadnt got involved, MBFS wouldve continued to charge him an unfair  amount. He 
felt that he should receive compensation.
Our investigator felt that the offer from MBFS was fair. She acknowledged that MBFS had 
chased Mr I for outstanding amounts  but said that a large portion of the balance related to 
other charges, including excess  mileage charges, which she didnt feel it was unfair of MBFS 
to ask for. The investigator  didnt award  any compensation. She said Mr I had enjoyed  use of 
the car for 15 days  which  he hadnt  been  charged for and hed been allowed to hand the car 
back at a time which was convenient for him.
Mr I didnt agree. He said that since receiving the investigators view hed received a further 
letter from a debt collection company acting for MBFS demanding an incorrect  figure. He 
said that although he accepted that hed had additional use of the car, he didnt think  he 
should have to pay any additional  usage  charges because of the stress and inconvenience  
hed been caused by the debt collection company.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed  that the collections company were closed over the Christmas period. I cant  
be certain why the car wasnt collected  on 2 January  2018  when  the office re-opened but on 
the basis of the information provided by MBFS, its accepted that the collections company 
arranged the collection date of 9 January 2018. Theres  no information to suggest that it was 
Mr Is fault, or as a result of any request made by Mr I that the car wasnt  collected  before 9 
Ref: DRN43865872January 2018.  Because of this, I dont think it was fair for MBFs  to ask for usage  charges 
from 24 December 2017 to 9 January 2018.
Mr I accepts that he asked to keep the car until 18 January 2018. He doesnt dispute that he 
enjoyed the use of the car during that time. The car would  otherwise have been collected on 
9 January 2018, so I think its fair that Mr I pay usage charges from 9 January 2018  to 18 
January 2018.
On balance, I think the offer made  by MBFS to waive  charges  from 24 December 2017 to 9 
January 2018  is fair and reasonable.
I understand why Mr I feels that he should be awarded compensation. He says he found the 
letters from the debt recovery  agent threatening and intimidating. Hes also unhappy  that 
hes been chased for an amount which is more  than that which was agreed with MBFS. 
MBFS has explained that Mr I was asked for a higher amount when an automated letter  was 
sent. It says it has now amended its systems  and has confirmed that the balance is 
£1,286.45. This includes  other charges as well as the additional usage charges which  are 
the subject of this complaint.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Is comments and I understand that hes unhappy about the 
way in which the balance has been pursued. However, on balance, Im satisfied that Mr I has 
an outstanding  balance and I cant say that MBFs has acted unfairly  in pursuing this.
Taking everything into account,  and given that Mr I enjoyed use of the car between 24 
December 2017  and 9 January 2018 for which he isnt being  charged,  Im not persuaded 
that compensation should be paid.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  in part. Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services  
UK Limited  must waive the additional usage  charges from 24 December 2017 to 9 January 
2018 and deduct this from Mr Is balance (if it hasnt done so already).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4386587