K822xcomplaint
Mr N is unhappy with UK Insurance Limiteds offer to settle his complaint. 
background 
Mr N had buildings insurance with UK Insurance. In 2015 a flood damaged his property and 
he claimed on his policy  with UK Insurance. That claim was resolved by another 
ombudsman here. This complaint arose after that and when Mr N received his belongings 
back from storage after three  years. 
Mr N said his washing machine and fridge  freezer  were damaged both by the length of time 
they remained in storage  and the flood itself. So he said UK Insurance  should  replace them.  
He also said some of his belongings could be either broken or missing, and hes focused in 
particular on some high value watches. Mr N would like all damaged and missing items 
replaced by UK Insurance should  it be the case  theyre found to be either damaged  or lost. 
UK Insurance said it did not believe the white goods werent in working order but still made 
an offer towards their replacement. UK Insurance also said itd be willing to consider 
covering any of Mr Ns belongings that are evidenced to be damaged or stolen as it would 
with an ordinary contents insurance  claim. UK Insurance agreed to do this because it took 
ultimate responsibility for the company that dealt with Mr Ns possessions (Company A) as it 
was appointed by the loss adjuster handling the claim  on UK Insurances  behalf.   
Our investigator agreed that UK Insurance had made a fair offer regarding the possessions 
handled by Company A. He felt its way of putting things right here is how an insurer  would 
ordinarily settle a claim of this type. He also felt the offer of £191.66 for the fridge freezer  and 
£255 for the washing  machine was fair.
Mr N did not agree. He said the white goods  should  be replaced new for old. And that UK 
Insurance should cover anything he says is either lost or damage. He does not think  its 
necessary he should have  to provide the evidence that would ordinarily be required for items  
like his watches which could be lost. Mr N also raised a number of additional points hes 
unhappy with, including  UK Insurance  not having to cover his additional hotel expenses over 
Christmas and the storage costs  hes incurred for items he cant  bring back  into his property 
due to the boxes that are currently taking up space  in his home. All of which  Ive categorised  
as service issues. 
And so its for me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I note Mr N had requested to discuss his case with me personally,  but I did not think  it 
necessary as theres enough information for me to reach a final decision. Having done so, I 
wont be asking UK Insurance to do anything more  in the circumstances of this complaint. I 
say that because I think the offer its made is fair and more than I would have awarded. Ill 
explain why. 
Ref: DRN42592962All insurers are obligated to follow the rules set out under the Insurance  Code of Conduct  
Sourcebook (ICOBS). These rules say that insurers must not unreasonably reject  or avoid a 
claim. In the particular  circumstances of this complaint, Mr N has not been able to evidence  
that his white  goods  are broken beyond  a state of repair.  Ive seen the photos hes submitted  
which show the items looking dirty and mouldy, but this does not tell me anything about  their 
functionality. 
Given the items have  been in storage for three  years,  I think  its reasonable to expect a level 
of degradation. I also think  it reasonable to suggest  these items would need  to be thoroughly 
cleaned. Ultimately theres insufficient  evidence that the white goods are beyond repair. In 
those circumstances  the cash offer made  by UK Insurance  is more  than fair because the 
insurer has gone a step further and made an assumption they are beyond repair  which I 
would not ordinarily  expect it to do under the circumstances without sufficient evidence.  
Ive also thought about Mr Ns argument  about the white goods being  damaged  by the flood 
prior to being stored. But Im not persuaded by it. Ive seen evidence  to suggest the items 
were tested prior to arranging the storage in 2015  from Mr Ns contents insurer.  It does not 
say exactly what level of testing was completed, but for the purposes of this complaint, it 
does not need to. Its enough to persuade me that the goods were in working  order prior to 
being stored. Further, I find it unlikely the insurer would arrange to pay for storage of 
damaged/faulty items for three years.
Given what Ive just explained, UK Insurance could have rejected Mr Ns claim, but instead, 
it decided to pay him a total of £446.66  towards  replacing these items. I think,  in the 
circumstances, this was a generous offer and more than I would have awarded.
UK Insurance has said it will consider covering any possessions  that Mr N says are lost or 
damaged if he  is able to successfully  demonstrate  his ownership  of these items and that 
they are either lost or damaged  which I think is fair. This is because when a claim for lost 
or stolen  items is considered by an insurer  the basic principles  are that sufficient evidence  is 
required. Both for the items being  owned  in the first place and that they have either  been  lost 
or stolen.  Without  this evidence relating to a particular item it would be unfair to say that an 
insurer should pay a reasonable  cost for it. Due to the principle that a policyholder  needs  to 
provide credible evidence an item was in their possession  and that its since  had something 
happen to it which would  require the insurer to pay out.    
Thinking ahead, I note Mr N has asked whether a letter from a family member  would suffice 
for items like his watches  which may not be in the boxes or could be damaged. But, given 
thats all he has in terms of proof  of ownership, I do not think that would be reasonable 
enough for UK Insurance  to settle  the claim on that basis. Proof of ownership would usually 
consist of proof of purchase like, a bank statement showing the purchase, or perhaps a 
receipt. As things currently  stand,  Mr Ns unable  to produce the adequate evidence to show  
these items  were ever in his possession. The most reasonable  way forward is 
UK Insurances because  at the very least proof  of possession would be needed for the 
reasons Ive explained.
Should Mr N decide  to accept my decision and later finds there are other items either lost or 
damaged he will need to contact UK Insurance directly and provide any evidence to 
substantiate his claim.  Bearing in mind what Ive said about what would be sufficient 
evidence to substantiate the claim. If any dispute arises  following this happening its 
important to be clear that this would be a new issue and need to be dealt with as a separate 
complaint.  
Ref: DRN42592963On the service issues I do not find its fair that UK Insurance  cover  any of the costs  Mr N has 
asked be covered. I feel its reasonable to say that Mr N could have removed his items from 
the boxes by now. Freeing up the space needed  for his other items in storage to be returned 
to his home much sooner.  So, storage costs hes said hes incurring at the moment should 
not be paid for by UK Insurance.  
Equally, its unfair to say UK Insurance should  cover the holiday  costs incurred by Mr N over 
the Christmas break.  He said they should  be paid by UK Insurance because he could not 
bear to stay in his property due to the amount of boxes taking up space. However,  there was 
already a resolution offered by UK Insurance before Mr N went on his Christmas holidays 
which would have adequately solved the issue. And so I wont  be asking UK Insurance to 
refund his Christmas holiday costs.      
   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I find that the two offers made by UK Insurance to resolve 
Mr Ns complaint are fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4259296