K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service under a 
home emergency insurance policy.
background 
Mr H works  for a department of the United Kingdom  government. But he works and lives 
abroad. He has a house in the UK and a son in the UK.
Mr H had a British Gas HomeCare policy. The renewal date was on 1 February  each year. It 
included an annual service of his central heating boiler and insurance cover  for boiler 
repairs. Where  I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance company of that name and I 
include its engineers  and others for whose actions  I hold that company responsible.
In November 2018 Mr H booked an annual service for the morning of 25 January 2019. He 
says he paid his son £100.00 to take a day off work to let the engineer in. But on the day, no 
engineer arrived.  British Gas said it had left a voicemail cancelling the appointment.
Mr H made  an international call to British  Gas. He complained that  although he had given 
his contact telephone number - British Gas hadnt telephoned him. British Gas offered to do 
the service in February 2019. It also offered £65.00 compensation for the missed  
appointment. But later the same day it reduced  that to £40.00.
Mr H didnt renew the policy and British Gas didnt do the annual  service.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. She didnt think 
that British Gas had acted  unreasonably  in relation  to the service appointment. She 
recommended that British  Gas should:
1.honour the offer of £65.00 compensation;
 
2.cover  Mr H's call costs  if he is able to provide proof of these  and proof that his 
employer hasn't paid this for him.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H 
and to British  Gas on 29 May 2019.  I summarise my findings:
On 26 April 2019, Mr H said his employer  would not release  the phone  bill even if it 
billed him. So, whilst  I did not doubt  the cost of £136.50,  I didnt find any evidence  
that Mr H had paid or was likely  to pay it.
Mr H didnt get the benefit of a service. And he suffered distress and inconvenience 
not only from the short-notice  cancellation of the appointment but also from the 
reduction of the offer and the attempted justification of it.
Overall I found fair and reasonable  compensation for distress and inconvenience was 
£100.00. I thought British  Gas had already paid the £40.00 it offered. So I expected it 
Ref: DRN41979772to pay a balance  of £60.00. But in case it hadnt  paid the £40.00 I said I would order  
British Gas to pay Mr H £100.00 insofar  as it hasnt already done so.
Subject to any further information from Mr H or from British Gas, my provisional  decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct  British Gas Insurance  
Limited to pay Mr H £100.00 for distress and inconvenience insofar  as it hadnt already paid 
him that sum.
British Gas accepts the provisional decision.
Mr H says, in summary, that:
He had previously  contacted British  Gas on a number of separate occasions by email 
and their website to register his overseas phone number rather than the UK number 
as the UK number  was not monitored.  British Gas eventually acknowledged that its 
website would not accept overseas phone numbers but did state that it would  save  
his overseas number  - this was never used throughout the duration of the service 
date failure. British Gas never  checked  that the cancelled service  message left to the 
UK phone  had even been  received  by Mr H; an email  would  have clarified this point 
and averted what was a total breakdown in customer/provider  relationship.
He hasnt received  any payment or cheque from British Gas for £40.00.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Annual boiler services  ae important. But they rely on appointments to ensure that the 
engineer attends  and the householder arranges access.
British Gas referred us to the following policy term:
Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled  to within  a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond  our control  makes that impossible   in which case well let you 
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
But I dont think that makes it clear that British Gas may make appointments and then seek  
to re-arrange them at short notice or without notice.  In any event  I dont think that would  be 
fair without  compensating the policyholder.
From its work history, I can see that British  Gas did annual services on each of the following 
dates:
27 June 2012
21 July 2014
16 October 2015
10 October 2016 
10 February 2018. 
Ref: DRN41979773There was no annual  service in the policy year from 1 February 2013 but Mr H isnt 
complaining about that. 
There was no service  in the policy year from 1 February 2017. But Mr H hasnt provided 
enough detail  to show that British  Gas made and failed  to keep an appointment that policy 
year. The service on 10 February 2018  was only a few days outside that policy  year. 
For the policy year from 1 February  2018, Mr H paid a yearly premium of about £329.00 by 
monthly instalments  of about £27.00. He had the benefit of a year of insurance cover.  That 
wouldve covered  repairs to his boiler if they had been necessary. Because  of that benefit, I 
dont find it fair and reasonable to order British  Gas to refund  any of the yearly premium.
The appointment on 25 January 2019 wouldve been the second service  that policy year.
Mr H hasnt given details  of the dates when  he says he gave  British  Gas his international 
number. But I have  no reason to doubt  that he did.
However - in line with its usual practice  when making appointments  British  Gas had asked 
Mr H for a UK telephone number. I think thats  a reasonable practice bearing in mind  the 
need for someone in the UK to let the engineer in.
So I cant say that British Gas was wrong to use that UK number to re-arrange the 
appointment - or that it shouldve made  an international  call or sent an email. I accept that 
neither Mr H nor his son received a message. 
I accept Mr Hs statement that he paid his son £100.00 to attend on 25 January 2019. But I 
accept that it was a busy time of year for British Gas. 
British Gas says it cant find a recording of Mr Hs call with the first British Gas representative 
on 25 January. But it has provided us with a recording  of the handover  discussion between  
that representative (L) and the second representative (S) as well as a recording of the 
discussion between Mr H and S. 
As the first part is missing, I accept Mr Hs recollection of it. I accept that he told L he was 
making an expensive  call from abroad.   And  I accept that he told L his son had used up his 
annual leave  entitlement.
From the recording of the handover call, I think L had offered to reschedule  the appointment 
from 25 January to seven  days  later (a plus seven). I think it was a coincidence that this fell 
on 1 February 2019, the policy renewal date. I think L had offered Mr H £65.00 for a missed  
service appointment.  He thought British  Gas usually made such an offer.  But S thought this 
was no longer the case.
From the recording of the call between Mr H and S, I think that Mr H wanted a service  that 
day or the next day, a Saturday. British Gas couldnt  do that. It offered a service  on 1 
February. And Mr H couldnt  get his son back to the house before April. 
From listening to the call, I dont  think S was encouraging  Mr H to misrepresent that his 
boiler had broken down. In the end British Gas offered  Mr H £40.00. S sent Mr H a final 
response letter the same day.
When he brought his complaint to us in mid-March 2019, Mr H said the following:
Ref: DRN41979774the mobile phone bill paid for by my employer was £136.50 (91 minutes).  They have  
not decided if they will make me pay for the call yet.
The investigator indicated  that Mr H should provide evidence of the cost and evidence that 
he had borne it. In reply  on 26 April 2019,  Mr H said his employer would not release the 
phone bill even if it billed  him. So, whilst I do not doubt the cost of £136.50, I dont find any 
evidence that Mr H has paid or is likely to pay it.
I dont think its usual  for householders  to pay family members to attend  appointments with 
British Gas. And I dont  think British  Gas couldve foreseen that Mr H had agreed  to pay his 
son £100.00 which would be wasted if it re-arranged the appointment. So I don't find it fair 
and reasonable to order British Gas to refund Mr H.
But Mr H didnt get the benefit of a service. And he suffered distress and inconvenience  not 
only from the short-notice cancellation  of the appointment but also from the reduction  of the 
offer and the attempted  justification of it.
Overall I find fair and reasonable compensation for distress and inconvenience  is £100.00.  I 
will order  British  Gas to pay Mr H £100.00  insofar as it hasnt already done  so.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr H £100.00  for distress and inconvenience 
insofar as it hasnt already paid him that sum.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4197977