K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that J H Motors Limited,  trading as The Car Arena (TCA) unfairly declined 
a claim submitted under his motor  warranty.
TCA uses intermediaries to administer warranties on their behalf, so any reference to TCA 
within this decision should also be taken as including such intermediaries.  
background
Mr L holds a motor  warranty with TCA that covers his car components against sudden 
mechanical breakdown.  He sought  to make  a claim for repairs when his vehicle broke down 
around 30 days after he had purchased  it, as his auxiliary drive  belt tensioner and water  
pump had failed. 
However, TCA declined  Mr Ls claim for repairs as they considered that the problem was 
due to in-service wear  and tear rather than a sudden  mechanical failure  which they said 
was not covered under the warranty. Unhappy with this, Mr L brought  his complaint  to this 
service. He said:
His garage said there is no way to prove  whether  the parts failed suddenly and 
accidentally or as a result  of wear and tear, so TCA have no reasonable basis  in 
which to decline his claim.
TCAs claim administrators agreed  to pay for half of the repair  costs  as a gesture of 
goodwill which  suggests it was a claim they ought  to have accepted;  they should 
also pay the remaining half.
There are business arrangements between the parties involved that ought  to be 
investigated. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He considered the evidence   in the form of an 
independent engineers report  suggested that the component failure was most likely 
caused by wear and tear, which wasnt covered by the warranty.  So he didnt think  TCA had 
declined the claim  unfairly. Mr L disagreed, so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Mr Ls warranty covers  various vehicle components against mechanical  breakdown.  
Mechanical breakdown  is defined  by the warranty as the actual and sudden mechanical 
failure or breakdown of an item listed under the What is Covered section which results in 
the sudden stoppage of its normal functions and which  necessitates repair or replacement to 
resume those functions. But the warranty  wording  also specifies that Failure  or breakdown,  
which ultimately results from wear and tear is excluded from the scope of cover afforded by 
this warranty.
So in light of this, Ive considered whether there  is enough evidence to suggest  that the 
component failure  is outside the scope  of the warranty as described above.  
Ref: DRN45216802An independent engineer  was instructed  on 25 July 2018 to report  on the likely cause of the 
component failure.  The engineer set out his findings and concluded:
This is not a sudden mechanical failure,  it is due to wear and tear of the affected 
components, commensurate with the high recorded mileage.
Mr L says he was told by his garage  that there is no way to prove whether the components 
failed suddenly and accidentally, or as a result of wear  and tear. I appreciate this may be 
difficult to prove conclusively. But having  considered the engineers  report, it appears to be 
unequivocal in its conclusions that the likely  cause of the component failure was the result of 
wear and tear. Mr L hasnt  submitted any other  report to contradict these findings. So in light 
of the engineers report that has been  submitted   and in the absence  of any other evidence  
 it seems more likely the failure  was due to wear  and tear rather  than a sudden mechanical 
breakdown. As a result, I cant say TCA have acted unreasonably  by declining  Mr Ls claim 
based on the evidence available.
Mr L has questioned  whether the engineer is truly independent. But I can see that the 
inspection company that was used describe themselves on their website as independent  
consultant motor engineers that provide unbiased engineers reports  on vehicles and their 
components. Ive seen  nothing  to suggest that the engineer was not independent, and I can 
also see that the report comes with a statement of truth from the engineer  stating that the 
report is true to the best of our knowledge  and belief and that the opinions expressed 
represent our true professional opinion . So I dont think there is enough evidence to suggest  
that the report is not independent or should not be relied upon.
Mr L says that TCAs claim administrators agreed  to pay for half of his repair  costs,  which  he 
says suggests  it is a claim they ought to have  covered. I can appreciate  why Mr L would 
think this. But there  are many reasons why an organisation may decide to make a 
discretionary payment. And where  it is made as a gesture of goodwill it cannot  reasonably  
amount to an admission  of liability. I also havent  seen anything  in this case that would 
suggest that the payment  made was an admission of liability.  So I cant  say they have done 
anything wrong  by offering to pay for half of the repairs. Ive already set out the reasons why 
 based on the evidence  provided  I dont consider TCA to be liable to pay Mr Ls claim, so 
it follows that I have  no reasonable  basis on which to direct them  to pay the remaining half. 
Mr L has also raised questions about  what he believes are dubious arrangements that have  
been struck between  the parties  involved in his claim, which he says need investigating. But 
the general scrutiny  of commercial arrangements struck between different businesses  is not 
something that typically falls within the remit of this service to consider  unless such an 
arrangement can be said to have created an unfair situation for a particular individual (or 
group of individuals). In Mr Ls case, I havent seen evidence that would persuade me he has 
been unfairly prejudiced as a result  of any commercial arrangements  TCA or there  agents  
have in place.  So this isnt something  I will be commenting on any further.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019
Jack Ferris
Ref: DRN45216803ombudsman
Ref: DRN4521680