K820x#14complaint
Mr M2 on behalf of the estate of Mrs N has complained that Acromas  Insurance Company 
Limited should provide a refund of the premiums his late mother  paid for her car insurance 
policy since 2011. 
The broker  has replied on behalf of the insurer, Acromas. For the purpose of my decision all 
reference to Acromas includes the broker.  
background
Mrs N bought a car insurance policy through a broker in 2002  and renewed  her policy every 
year.
In 2015 a carer acting  for Mrs N told the broker that Mrs Ns driving licence had been 
revoked by the DVLA in July 2015.  The insurer of the policy   Acromas - backdated the 
cancellation of Mrs Ns policy to the renewal date of 1 August 2015. 
Mrs N passed away in March 2017.  In July 2018  Mrs Ns brother Mr M1 contacted  the 
broker. He said his sister had been unable to drive  since 2011 and been without her car. He 
said his sister wouldnt  have been  able to read the renewal letters  the broker  had sent.  Mr 
M1 believed  Acromas had incorrectly charged  Mrs N a premium based on having her driving 
licence for a year  and based  on driving  around 15,000  miles a year.  He said the most she 
would have driven was 1,500 miles a year  and she held her licence since 1970.
Mr M1 wanted Acromas to provide a full refund for the premiums Mrs N paid between  2011 
and 2014. He intended to use the refund to memorialise his late sister.
The broker  said it wasnt aware of Mrs Ns health issues.  So it said Acromas acted correctly 
as it continued  to provide insurance in good  faith. It explained that Acromas had correctly 
applied the number of years Mrs N held her licence for when deciding her premium  each 
year. The broker  said if Mr M1 could show that Mrs Ns car was declared  SORN (Statutory 
Off Road  Notice), Acromas would backdate the cancellation of her policy to that date. 
As a gesture  of goodwill, the broker said Acromas  would freeze the premium  Mrs N paid 
based on the price  in 2010  as her cars  MOT  had expired in 2011. So the broker offered a 
refund totalling  £593.84  to Mr M1 to resolve  his complaint. 
The broker  has told us its sent Mr M1 a cheque for this sum.  
Mr M1 remained unhappy, so he asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought  
Acromas had acted reasonably. The mileage it used was the mileage Mrs N gave  it when 
she bought her policy in 2002  and she hadnt  advised of any change  since.  Acromas  had 
shown that when it became aware  of the changes to Mrs Ns circumstances, it acted 
promptly and reasonably. 
Mr M1 didnt  agree. He doesnt dispute  that Acromas didnt know about his sisters poor 
health  or that the mileage she drove  was lower than shed notified the broker of in 2002. 
But he says its all about the auto renewal process. He has concerns about the fairness of it 
in circumstances  such as his sisters.  Mr M1 is unhappy that the premium continued to 
increase over four years even though  Mrs Ns No Claims Bonus (NCB) increased. 
Ref: DRN46925702Mr M1 wanted Acromas to provide a full refund as this was a one off occurrence  and it 
should treat the case sympathetically.  
The investigator asked  Mr M1 to provide proof he was an eligible complainant. This service 
discovered that Mr M1 wasnt.  
Mrs Ns son Mr M2  as an eligible  complainant - contacted us and asked  us to continue  to 
look at the complaint. Acromas was happy  for us to continue to deal with the complaint made 
by Mr M2 as it was the same as the complaint it replied to Mr M1. 
Our investigator issued  a view to Mr M2 along  the same lines as his view to Mr M1. He didnt 
recommend upholding it.
Mr M2 didnt  agree. So the case has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. I appreciate Mr M2 will be disappointed, but Ill explain  why Ive made  my decision. 
Ive looked at whether Acromas acted in a fair and reasonable way. The broker wrote to 
Mrs N about a month before the renewal  date of her policy each year to tell her what  her 
renewal premium with Acromas would be  and what it based the premium on. It isnt 
unusual for a broker or insurer to offer automatic renewal due to the potentially serious 
consequences of being in charge of an uninsured vehicle. But because  the broker wrote to 
Mrs N before the renewal  date, it gave her the option to either  cancel or change her policy 
with Acromas before it renewed. As the broker didnt hear from Mrs N, it renewed her policy 
as it said it would. I cant therefore say that Acromas acted unreasonably here by continuing 
to provide insurance. 
When Mr M1 contacted the broker in July 2018, they discovered that Mrs Ns cars MOT  
expired in 2011. So the broker said Acromas would provide  a refund of the difference  in 
premium Mrs N paid between  2011  and 2014.  This effectively means  that Mrs N paid the 
same price  for insurance cover from 2011  to 2015  as she did in 2010. 
Even though  Mrs Ns cars MOT  had expired, Acromas was still the insurer on risk for any 
third party, fire or theft claim. And Acromas  said it would  backdate  the cancellation if there  
was proof  Mrs Ns car was declared  off the road (SORN). I know  Mr M1 has explained why 
this probably didnt happen.  But as Acromas hasnt received  any proof of this, I think its 
reasonably entitled to have charged  a premium for the period it insured the risk - until it was 
made aware  of Mrs Ns licence being  revoked in 2015.
I understand Mr M2 believes that Acromas should provide a full refund. But from what  Ive 
seen, I cant say that Acromas has acted  unreasonably. And so this means  Im not asking it 
to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN46925703Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M2 on behalf  of 
the estate of Mrs N to accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4692570