K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Lloyds Bank Plc put a block  on their card while they were 
abroad which meant they couldnt access funds. They  say Lloyds gave them  inconsistent  
information about the block when  they got back.
background
Mr and Mrs A found they were unable to withdraw money using their Lloyds Bank Plc card 
from Automatic Teller Machines (ATMs) while abroad although they were able to use their 
card to make card payments for hotels. When they returned to the UK, Mr A contacted 
Lloyds to find out about the issues theyd been having. But Lloyds initially  told him the card 
hadnt been blocked. Mr A disagreed with the representative and after looking into it further 
she said the card had been  blocked  for some transactions because  of security  concerns.
Mr A wasnt  happy with this explanation and complained to Lloyds because  he said it had 
caused them  a lot of trouble when they were abroad because  they couldnt  get access to 
their cash.  Lloyds looked into his complaint but rejected it. So he came to this service. Our 
investigator didnt  think  Lloyds had done  anything wrong, so Mr A asked for review by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can understand why Mr A was upset to 
find he was unable to withdraw cash while abroad, but I dont think this complaint should 
succeed and Ill explain why.
Lloyds doesnt  require customers to inform it when  they go abroad  but it does continue  to 
monitor accounts for security concerns. Because Mr As attempt to withdraw cash  caused a 
security flag Lloyds tried to contact Mr A about  it several times. Unfortunately  he had 
disabled his phone so he couldnt  receive calls or texts while  he was travelling. So Lloyds 
couldnt check the attempted transaction was genuine and the block  remained in place. In 
my view it was reasonable  for Lloyds to leave the block in place when it couldnt get hold of 
Mr A to discuss  its concerns.
Some kinds of transaction  may cause security  concerns while others may be less of a risk. 
Mr As complained that a debit card transaction was also declined  when  he returned to the 
UK. I can see that was an online transaction for a payment through another  country. Its up 
to banks to decide how exactly they protect  their customers from fraud. Therefore I dont 
think Lloyds did anything  wrong by letting Mr A continue  to make some  types  of payments 
while blocking others. 
Although the adviser Mr A spoke  to when he returned to the UK initially  gave  him incorrect 
information about the block, I dont  think this disadvantaged Mr A and the issue was finally  
resolved. I understand that it was frustrating for Mr A but I think Lloyds acted appropriately 
by blocking transactions  it had security concerns about until it was able to check  with Mr A 
that they were  genuine.
Ref: DRN42948782my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.  Under  
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mr and Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 September 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4294878