K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Nationwide Building  Society (NBS) mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs E bought the policy  in March 1999 at the same  time as taking out a loan. Due to 
the time that has passed, its not clear how Mr and Mrs E applied  for their loan and PPI 
policy. Their recollection  is that the application  was made  by post but NBS cannot confirm 
this. 
The loan was repayable over a 48-month  term. The monthly loan repayment was £124.45 
with the PPI costing  an additional £10.49  making the total monthly repayment £139.44. The 
policy didnt attract interest  and could be cancelled by either  party with 30 days notice 
without penalty.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr E for accident, sickness, unemployment  and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr and Mrs Es monthly loan repayment 
for up to 24 months in the event  of a successful disability claim and 12 months in the event 
of unemployment.  
At the time,  Mr E was employed as a bus driver. He has told us he was entitled to 12 
months pay if he was unable to work because of accident or sickness and that they didnt 
have any other means of repaying their personal loan should he be unable  to work. Mr E 
was also entitled  to redundancy pay. 
Mr E has said he was in good  health  at the time of the sale but did suffer  from depression 
shortly afterwards. Mr E was off work  from August 1999 to March 2000 because  of his 
depression.  
NBS has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in November 2001. The 
PPI policy  was cancelled  at an earlier date in September 1999. 
Mr and Mrs Es representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. 
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Es representative  says:
NBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr and Mrs E 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Es representatives believe there  to be no evidence  to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN45363722The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NBS should  have told 
Mr and Mrs E about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NBS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs E and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The information Mr and Mrs E received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue;
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs E disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion and asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Es. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Ref: DRN45363723Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like NBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Es case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so NBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Es complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If NBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs E with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether NBS gave Mr and Mrs E sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN45363724-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of             
Mr and Mrs E, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what extent                  
Mr and Mrs E suffered loss or damage and what I consider  would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs E 
and NBS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs E know they had a choice?
NBS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
I have seen a copy of the credit agreement signed by Mr and Mrs E and dated                     
11 March 1999.  At the top of the agreement it refers  to the amount of the loan, the monthly  
cost and the agreed terms. Underneath that there is a separate box showing the Monthly  
Premium for Optional Credit Insurance quoting the monthly cost for the PPI. And below that 
there is a Total Monthly Payment box giving the combined monthly  payment for the PPI and 
the loan repayments. 
NBS has told us that after the loan was approved it would  send  two copies of the agreement 
 one copy for Mr and Mrs E to keep and one copy for Mr and Mrs E to sign and return. 
Along with the agreement,  NBS has told us it would send a copy of the PPI policy  document 
and Mr and Mrs E were encouraged to read in their own time.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs E knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did NBS provide advice?
Both NBS and Mr and Mrs E agree that advice wasnt  provided  during this sale.  
Mr and Mrs Es recollection is that they applied for the loan by post which would concur with 
NBSs records for that time that it did not give advice for this type of policy.  So, I think its 
most likely no advice  was given. 
This means  NBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs E. Instead, it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mr and Mrs E to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs E were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr E was unable to work through  accident, sickness and disability) and of the approximate 
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs E would have 
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  NBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs E agreed  to take out the policy.  
Ref: DRN45363725So I dont  think NBS gave  Mr and Mrs E sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Es representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Es. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Es representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs E about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Es representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs E has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry  
codes and standards of good industry  practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its 
fair and reasonable to conclude that NBS ought to have done  either.  
What effect did NBSs shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs E? To what extent did         
Mr and Mrs E suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that NBS didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs E. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude                 
Mr and Mrs E suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must  decide whether 
or not Mr and Mrs E would have still taken out the policy, had NBS done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs E say they would not have taken it out and believe I should  presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs E had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr E being  unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs E chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what   
Ref: DRN45363726Mr and Mrs E thought they were getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs E have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
The information Mr and Mrs E were given about  the cost was clear. But the information 
about other aspects  of the policy, such as the benefit and exclusions and limitations wasnt  
as clear as it should have  been.  
Im not persuaded NBS made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs E would get back  in return  in 
the event Mr E made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs Es expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  their 
loan payments) were  significantly different to what the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs E thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr E knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr E 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Mr and Mrs E pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs E from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Es circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr E was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr E wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr E didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr E would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim. As Ive said above,  Mr E has told us he did suffer  from a bout of 
depression between August 1999  and March 2000. But this was after the policy was issued 
so wouldnt have impacted on his ability to make a claim. Mr E hasnt told us that this was a 
medical condition  he was aware  of at the time he took the policy. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs E would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  were  Mr E made redundant, or unable  to work through  accident 
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs E would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Ref: DRN45363727Mr and Mrs Es representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs E would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account                    
Mr and Mrs Es circumstances as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the 
position Mr and Mrs E found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position they 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs E believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs E in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude NBS should  pay Mr and Mrs E compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs E think NBS misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
NBSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why NBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  NBS gave Mr and Mrs E, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1999  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Es representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find NBS negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs E and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that NBS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
Ref: DRN45363728and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs E in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 November  2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4536372