K821x#15complaint
Miss B and Mr F have  complained about the way in which their mortgage  application  was 
handled by Skipton Building Society. They say that due to mistakes made by Skipton,  they 
were left with no option but to move their mortgage to another lender. As a result, 
Miss B and Mr F say they are now £2,500 out of pocket, which  they want  Skipton to 
reimburse.
background
Miss B and Mr F wanted to carry out some building work on their property, which was 
mortgaged to Skipton.  The mortgage  was on a fixed rate which ended  on 31 July 2018,  
following which it would revert to Skiptons  Residential Mortgage Variable Rate (RMVR).  The 
outstanding balance was approximately £130,000.
Miss B and Mr F wanted to carry out some work on their property and needed to borrow 
against the equity in their house to do this. Because their existing fixed  rate was about to 
come to an end, Miss B and Mr F decided to take out a new fixed  rate with Skipton. 
There were a number of calls between Miss B and Skipton where Miss B discussed various 
amounts she and Mr F wanted to borrow  initially around £20,000 but she also mentioned  a 
figure between £40,000  and £60,000.  
On 26 June 2018 Skipton gave a decision in principle to lend a further £74,000, on an 
estimated desktop  valuation  of £227,405.  This was subject to planning permission and a full 
application, including a valuation prepared by a surveyor.. 
Miss B and Mr F applied  for planning  permission, at a cost of £2,500, including  the cost of 
architects drawings for the work. The full application  was made  to Skipton, and a surveyor 
carried out an inspection  of the property  for Skipton. The valuation was much lower than 
Miss B and Mr F had expected, at £185,000.  
In July 2018 Miss B and Mr F were  told during the course of the application that if their 
mortgage reverted  to RMVR they would  be reimbursed  for the difference between that rate 
and their new rate. After  their appeal against  the valuation was rejected, Miss B and Mr F 
went to another  lender. The valuation by the new lender was £220,000.
Miss B and Mr F complained to Skipton. They said that if things had been clearer from the 
start they wouldnt have  spent £2,500  on planning  consent and drawings. They  also think  the 
valuation should  have been carried out much earlier,
In its final response Skipton apologised for not having refunded fees associated with the 
abortive application and said it would  arrange  to do this. Skipton offered £50 compensation 
for not having  done this. But it didnt  uphold any other part of the complaint.
Miss B and Mr F complained to us. An investigator  looked at the complaint. He didnt think  
Skipton should  refund  the £2,500 in fees as these  would have been incurred in any event. 
But he thought  there had been delay in the application and that Skipton should reimburse 
Miss B and Mr F for the time they were on RMVR before they remortgaged  to their new 
lender on a fixed rate of 2.49%. He noted that this is what  Skipton had agreed it would do 
when it spoke to Miss B on 16 July 2018.
Ref: DRN47968662This would cover a period of 30 days  on 4.74% from 1-31 August 2018 inclusive, and 
131 days on 4.99% from 1 September 2018 to 10 January 2019.
Skipton didnt agree, It said Miss B and Mr F said that from its point of view,  the option  to be 
compensated for the difference in rates  was offered while the application was continued with 
Skipton. Because the mortgage wasnt switched to a new rate, Skipton didnt agree that it 
should offer any compensation  for the extra  cost of the mortgage. Skipton  also said that the 
delay in the application proceeding was due to Miss B and Mr F, not Skipton.
Skipton offered a further £100 compensation. This wasnt acceptable to Miss B and Mr F and 
so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I confirm Ive reviewed  everything  
provided by Miss B and Mr F and by Skipton and Ive listened  to the available  telephone call 
recordings.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that this complaint should be upheld. I dont 
think Skipton was clear  enough about  the timescales. Miss B and Mr F are not finance 
professionals, so I dont  expect them  to be familiar  with the process for a mortgage 
application.
The initial enquiry was made  in mid-June, and the mortgage application appointment was on 
16 July 2018.  After some initial back and forth over childcare  vouchers  where  there was 
some misunderstanding  by Skipton about  what it could include in the affordability 
assessment, the application was proceeding. Documents were sent out at the end of July. 
In early September 2018 Miss B called to go through the figures. The original  product  had 
lapsed by then and so Skipton had to re-start  the application process. I dont think  its clear 
from the documents sent out by Skipton in July 2018 that this would be the case. And, given 
Miss Bs occupation, I dont think it was unreasonable that she didnt contact Skipton during 
the month of August.
The valuation wasnt carried out until the end of September. This valued the property at 
£185,000 almost £43,000 less than the desktop  valuation  a difference of almost  19%.  Ive 
looked at the valuation,  as well as online information about the comparable properties  
referred to by the valuer. Ive also looked at the properties used as comparables by 
Miss B and Mr F in their appeal and read the valuers  comments  about those properties. 
Ive also looked  at relevant case law relating to the margin of error  allowed in a valuation.  
Generally, case law precedent refers  to a margin of between 10% and 15% depending upon  
the facts.
The case  of Singer and Friedlander v John D Wood & Co [1977]  243 EG 212 states  that the 
margin of error can be 10% either side of a figure that can be said to be the right figure  that a 
competent careful and experienced valuer  arrives  at after making all the necessary enquiries  
and paying property regard to the state of the market. In exceptional  circumstances, the 
permissible margin could be extended  to about 15% or a little more either way. But I am not 
persuaded this was a case where  there were exceptional circumstances to justify  a margin 
of error of 19%,
Ref: DRN47968663This was not a staff valuer,  so Skipton was entitled to rely on his opinion.  But I think it was 
unreasonable of the valuer  to disregard one of the properties cited by Miss B and Mr F in 
their appeal, simply because it had been  sold after he had carried out his valuation.  It was 
next door to their house and the sale completed a week  after hed inspected  
Miss B and Mr Fs property. It was a directly relevant  comparable  and I think any reasonable 
valuer would  have given consideration to this when it was raised as part of the appeal.
In all the circumstances Im satisfied, given  the rejection of their appeal  and the erosion of 
confidence in Skipton,  that it was reasonable for Miss B and Mr F to look to another lender.  I 
note that upon inspection  by that lenders surveyor,  the property was valued at £220,000.
I disagree with Skipton  that it only agreed to compensate Miss B and Mr F for the difference  
in RMVR and a new fixed rate if they proceeded to remortgage with Skipton. The case  notes 
are from 17 July 2018 clear that Skipton said: we could also look at the 3-year BRT 
[Base Rate Tracker]I from 1 August  until [Miss  B and Mr F] remortgage elsewhere and if 
[they] cannot [they] can look at a new rate with us.
On 18 July 2018, Skiptons notes confirm that Miss B and Mr F could be put on the BRT to 
avoid reverting to the MRVR while they consider  their options. Skipton also agreed  to pay 
compensation of £50.
Its disappointing to see that in its final response of 19 July 2018  Skipton makes no mention  
of any offer of compensation other than the £50. Nor is this mentioned  in a later,  more  
detailed, final response dated 18 November 2018 which arose  out of Miss B and Mr Fs 
dissatisfaction with the valuation.
The mortgage with Skipton was redeemed on 10 January 2019 when Miss B and Mr F 
moved to a new rate of 2.49% with another lender. I think  it is fair and reasonable that 
Skipton compensates  them  for the difference in the RMVR  from 1 August 2018 until the date 
they redeemed  the mortgage, 10 January 2019. Skipton should also pay the additional £100 
compensation it agreed to pay.
I dont think Skipton needs  to reimburse Miss B and Mr F for the cost of planning permission  
and architects drawings.  These would have  been  required  in any event if they intended to 
go ahead  with the work on their property.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. 
In full and final settlement  I direct Skipton Building Society to do the following:
pay compensation to Miss B and Mr F for the difference between RMVR and their 
new rate of 2.49%. a period of 30 days on 4.74% from 1-31 August 2018 inclusive, 
and 131 days on 4.99% from 1 September 2018 to 10 January 2019 inclusive.
pay £100 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 October  2019.
Ref: DRN47968664Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4796866