K822xcomplaint
Mrs M has brought this complaint on behalf  of herself and the estate of Mr M. The complaint 
is about two payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies that were sold to Mr and Mrs M by 
Lloyds Bank  PLC, trading  as Cheltenham & Gloucester,  with mortgage loans. Mrs M says 
they were mis-sold these policies.
background 
In 1998, Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage. The policy  was sold during a 
meeting in a branch and provided cover for their mortgage repayments (on a 50:50 basis) if 
one of them was unable to work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. In 
2000, they took out additional  borrowing on their mortgage and the policy was amended to 
provide higher cover.
In 2009, Mr and Mrs M again took out further borrowing on their mortgage. And they took out 
a new PPI policy to protect their repayments  on this loan. The policy  covered Mrs M if she 
was unable to work  because  of an accident, sickness  or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
1998 sale
Lloyds has provided  a copy of the PPI proposal form which Mr and Mrs M signed at the time. 
This was separate from their mortgage  application.  They also signed  a separate direct debit 
mandate to collect the monthly premiums  on their PPI policy.  So I think  it would have been 
clear to them at the time that the PPI was optional.
Ive thought about what Mrs M has said about  the advisor they spoke to telling them  they 
were more likely to get their mortgage  if they took out the PPI. And its possible that the 
advisor did mis-lead them in this way. But I have to bear in mind  that this sale took place a 
long time ago and memories do tend to fade over such timescales.  And Mrs Ms recollection 
of what was said doesnt appear  to be particularly vivid or detailed.  So whilst I think  that the 
advisor did recommend  the PPI to them, I dont  think its that likely  they were  wrongly  told 
that taking it would help with their mortgage  application. On balance, I think  its more  likely 
Mr and Mrs M actively decided to take out the policy knowing they had a choice. But I can 
understand why Mrs M may not remember this now.
Ref: DRN45385582As Lloyds  recommended  the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs M, it needed  to ensure that it was 
suitable for them. Theres no record of what was said at the meeting, so I cant know how 
Lloyds did this. But from what I know of their circumstances at the time, I cant  see any 
reason why it wouldnt have been  suitable. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs M appear to have been  eligible  for the policy  and not affected by any of its 
main exclusions  and limitations.
Mrs M says that they had generous  sick pay and some savings at the time and didnt  
need the policy. But a mortgage  is a big financial commitment  where ones home is 
potentially at risk if the monthly repayments  cant be made.  And the policy would have 
paid out in addition to any other means  they had available at the time. So I think that 
Mr and Mrs M would  still have valued the extra security that the policy gave them.
Ive no reason to think that the policy was unaffordable  for Mr and Mrs M. And as its 
premiums were  paid monthly,  they could have cancelled the policy  if it no longer met 
their needs.
Lloyds also needed  to ensure that Mr and Mrs M were given enough  information  about the 
PPI policy  for them to decide if they wanted to take it. I think  its possible that Lloyds  could 
have given them better information  that it did. But for much  the same  reasons as why I dont 
think the policy was unsuitable, I dont think that better information would have changed their 
minds about taking it out. I think theyd still have thought it gave them useful  protection  at an 
affordable monthly  cost.
2009 sale
Mr and Mrs M completed and signed  a separate application form and direct debit mandate 
for this PPI policy. Once again, Mrs M says that they were told at the time that theyd  have a 
better chance of getting their mortgage if they took the PPI. But on the evidence  that I have 
available to me, I dont  think  I could  fairly  conclude that this is whats most  likely to have 
happened. On balance,  I think its more  likely  that the PPI policy was recommended to them 
and they agreed  to take it, knowing that they could choose not to do so.
As Lloyds  recommended  the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs M, it needed  to ensure that it was 
suitable for them. Theres no record of what was said at the meeting, so I cant know how 
Lloyds did this. But from what I know of their circumstances at the time, I cant  see any 
reason why it wouldnt have been  suitable. I say this because:
Mrs M appears  to have been eligible for the policy and not affected  by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
Mrs M says she was had generous sick pay and redundancy  benefits from her employer. 
And she says that she and her husband also had some  savings  at the time. So she 
doesnt think they needed the policy. But a mortgage is a big financial commitment  
where ones home is potentially at risk if the monthly  repayments  cant  be made.  And the 
policy would have  paid out in addition to any other means  they had available at the time. 
So I think that Mr and Mrs M would still have valued the extra  security that the policy  
gave them.
Ive no reason to think that the policy was unaffordable  for Mr and Mrs M. and as the 
premiums were  paid monthly,  they could have cancelled it if it no longer met their needs.
Ref: DRN45385583Lloyds also needed  to ensure that Mr and Mrs M were given enough  clear  information about 
the PPI policy  for them to decide if they wanted to take it. I think its possible that it could 
have given them better information  that it did. But for much  the same  reasons as why I dont 
think the policy was unsuitable, I dont think that better information would have changed their 
minds about taking it out. I think theyd still have thought it gave them useful  protection  at an 
affordable monthly  cost.
This means  that Lloyds doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the two PPI policies. But 
Lloyds has to pay back some of the cost of the PPI policies because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs M that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has already paid back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium on the 1998 PPI sale. And its now 
offered to pay back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was above  50% of 
the PPI premium on the 2009 PPI sale. I think that this is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mrs M and the Estate of Mr M any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium on the 2009 sale.  
Lloyds should  pay back to Mrs M and the Estate of Mr M the extra that was paid each  month 
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Lloyds should  also pay Mrs M and the Estate  of Mr M 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs M and the Estate of Mr M can claim back  the tax if 
they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
costs of the PPI to Mrs M and the Estate of Mr M. 
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs M and the Estate of Mr M any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mrs M and the Estate of Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4538558