K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about the poor service  he says hes received on a number of occasions  from 
British Gas Insurance Limited (BG)  under  his HomeCare policy.  
References to BG include its contractors.
background
Mr A contacted BG on a number of occasions when he needed work to be done  under his 
HomeCare policy. He complains that he received inadequate service,  particularly in the period 
September 2017 to August 2018 . He gives four specific examples. 
1. Water leak  October 2017
In October  2017 Mr A called BG as he had four inches of water in his cellar. BGs 
engineer undertook some pressure tests and concluded that the problem was a leak 
under the kitchen floor. He advised that the floor would  need to come  up. Mr A was 
sceptical about  this, and contacted his local water board.  They told him that they had 
repaired a leak in a main almost opposite his house,  which wouldve raised the water  
table and leaked into Mr As cellar.
Mr A was concerned that if hed followed BGs advice,  his newly  laid kitchen floor 
wouldve been taken  up. This wouldve caused  disruption and damage for no reason.
Because BGs engineer  had formed the view from the pressure testing hed done that 
there was a leak, Mr A wanted confirmation  that this wasnt the case.  He says he was 
directed by BG to its local office which  he called  a number of times. He says he was 
promised a call back, but this never happened.
In response to Mr As complaint, BG has said that its engineer  believed  that there  was 
a leak based on his pressure testing. In these circumstances he would need  to inspect 
the pipework and he provided the best advice at the time. It said its engineer would be 
provided with feedback.  
BG investigated Mr As complaint that BG hadnt contacted him when it said it would. 
This involved searching the calls received not just by BG but also by its contractors 
against the three numbers it held for Mr A covering the period 01/10/2017  - 31/05/2019 
and against his home phone number. BG says it has records of calls it made  to Mr A, 
but of only one call received from him, and this call was abandoned.  Its contractors 
have no record of any calls received from Mr As home number  during  this period. Mr A 
wasnt able to provide  any evidence that mightve contradicted this.
2. Boiler service   November 2017
The annual service  of Mr As boiler was due in November 2017. Mr A says that two BG 
engineers attended on a Tuesday. He says the boiler was working perfectly  at the time.  
But after a short time the engineers told him that the boiler  was no longer working and 
this mightve been caused by them. They said that another engineer  would come  out 
later that day. This engineer didnt arrive until the next day, and he then advised he 
had to get a part. He returned the following day with the part but found  that screws had 
been over tightened by the previous engineers and to address  this he needed another 
Ref: DRN48039422part. The next day he arrived  with the further part and got the boiler going again and 
completed the inspection. So according to Mr A, it had taken from Tuesday until Friday 
to rectify a problem that BGs engineers  had caused.
With regard to this complaint, BGs  records show that an engineer went  to Mr As 
house to conduct the annual boiler service  on Monday 30 October 2017 but he wasnt 
able to gain access. BGs  visit record for that day states:
 30/10/2017  - no access, called customer but no answer. White/glass door  
An engineer,  recorded as an expert, arrived on Wednesday, 1 November. The visit 
record for that day states:
1/11/2017- Parts  required, erratic voltages to fan, blr shows either T or C1, pump 
runs, nothing else. Blr non op, will re-raise  when working
The same engineer returned the following day. The record  for that day states:
2/11/2017- Unable to remove  combustion panel as screws have been chewed to bits, 
more parts
The engineer returned the next day, Friday 3 November, and the record  states:
3/11/2017- Code0: drilled out screws,  replaced fan, replaced screws & tested, all OK
So a fault caused, or at least identified, on the Wednesday was repaired on the Friday. 
3. Porch light  August 2018
Mr A called BG in January  2018  to repair his porch light. The engineer  who attended 
confirmed that the repair  was covered by his policy but he couldnt do it in the time 
available and told Mr A that a longer  visit was needed. Mr A didnt contact BG again 
until August to try to get his porch  light fixed. He says he specifically asked for a long 
appointment time. 
When BGs engineer  arrived he said it would be a long job and he only had 40 
minutes. He did a couple of small jobs and then left, leaving the porch light unrepaired.
In relation to this complaint, BG apologised for the fact that the timescale for the job 
hadnt been amended.  It said its engineer shouldve arranged for a new date for the 
work to be carried out and said it would provide feedback to the engineers manager 
regarding this.
4. Tenants boiler  February  March 2018
ln a cold spell in February  March 2018 tenants in Mr As house  told him that their 
boiler wasnt working. BG sent an engineer the next day, a Tuesday. He advised that a 
new pump was required  and hed be back with it the following day. He didnt return,  
and Mr A says he made repeated calls to BG to find out why he hadnt. On the Friday,  
Mr As tenants left the house to stay with relatives. Mr A contacted an independent 
plumber who said there was nothing wrong with the pump, defrosted  the condensate 
exhaust pipe and got the boiler going.
Ref: DRN48039423BG says its already  investigated  this complaint and made  a settlement of £108.00 to 
Mr A to cover the costs of his independent engineer. It says this was accepted  by Mr A 
and the complaint was then closed.
Mr As believes that hes been  paying  premiums to BG for a deteriorating level of service. He 
says he wants reimbursement of premium  payments hes made  to BG in the sum of £863. 41, 
and also to be reimbursed  for a payment  of £415.00 he says he made to his tenants directly 
resulting from BGs failure to meet its obligations.  He says the total of £1,278.41 doesnt  
include expenses such as travel  and office  expenses hes incurred because  of BGs failure to 
meet its obligations.
BG told Mr A it was unable  to refund him the £1,278.41 he requested. But it did agree that 
hed received poor service, and in view of this offered him a goodwill gesture of £50.00. Mr A 
has rejected this. He cancelled  his HomeCare agreement in October 2018.
A senior  manager  at BG reviewed Mr As complaint but upheld  the initial findings.
 
Mr A brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator considered each complaint and her 
view was that the £50 compensation that BG had offered was proportionate to the distress  
and inconvenience  caused.
Mr A has asked  that his complaint be referred  to an ombudsman, so Im now going to provide 
my view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im upholding Mr As complaint, but Im not going to ask 
BG to do anything more  than to pay him the £50 its previously offered him.
I should say at the outset that Im only able to consider the first three  complaints mentioned 
above. I cant consider  the fourth  complaint, about  his tenants boiler.
This complaint was addressed by BG who provided  Mr A with £108 compensation. On 18 May 
2018 it sent Mr A a Summary Resolution Letter with referral rights  to our service.  This stated:
You have the right to refer your complaint to the Financial  Ombudsman Service, free of 
charge - but you must  do so within six months  of the date of this email. If you do not refer 
your complaint in time, the Ombudsman will not have our permission to consider your 
complaint and so will only be able to do so m very limited circumstances. For example, if 
the Ombudsman believes that the delay was as a result of exceptional circumstances
Mr As complaint to this service wasnt brought until 5 February 2019. Its therefore been made 
out of time, and so Im afraid I cant consider it.
Ill provide my view on each of the three  remaining  complaints  in turn.
1.The water  leak
I can understand that Mr A wouldve been  concerned when he received advice from BGs 
engineer that he believed  was incorrect and which, if followed, wouldve led to considerable 
disruption and inconvenience.  But I have no evidence to suggest that BGs engineer was 
Ref: DRN48039424wrong in concluding from his water  pressure test that there  was a leak, and that to investigate  
this further the floor would  have to be taken  up. 
As Mr A didnt follow  this recommendation, and so didnt suffer  any damage to his house or 
any inconvenience from doing so, I dont consider that compensation is appropriate. 
As for Mr As complaint  that BG failed to return his calls, our investigator sought evidence  from 
both BG and from Mr A as to calls made  and received in order to inform her view.   As the only 
evidence provided  is of one (abandoned)  call from Mr A to BG, I dont have  sufficient 
information to uphold this complaint.
2.The boiler repair
Mr A says that two BG engineers attended on a Tuesday and were responsible for his boiler 
needing a repair.  BGs  contemporaneous records, which I have  no reason to disbelieve,  show 
that a single engineer attended  on the Wednesday,  although a visit had been  attempted on 
the Monday.
From the information available  to me its unclear whether or not there was a problem with 
Mr As boiler before BGs engineer undertook his annual service. Mr A says it was working  
perfectly. BGs  records  show some  issues  that required a spare part. But even if I were to 
have found that BGs engineer was responsible for a repair being necessary, the repair  was 
done on the Friday, so within two days.  I dont consider that the delay in this repair  was 
unreasonable, although Mr A wouldve suffered some  inconvenience in having  to make 
arrangements for an engineer to make  two return visits. 
3.The porch light
In my opinion, Mr A did suffer some inconvenience when he booked a long appointment in 
August 2018,  yet the engineer who turned up only had 40 minutes available to him, which  
wasnt sufficient time to undertake the repair. Mr A says he asked the engineer to do another 
repair, which he did, but the visit was a waste of time for the purposes of fixing the porch light.
This repair doesnt appear to have been  urgent.  Mr A had waited from January until August to 
make an appointment.  However I think that some compensation would be appropriate for the 
loss of this opportunity to have this repair done.
Mr A is seeking reimbursement of premium of £863.41 for the poor service he feels  he has 
received on a number  of occasions, which he describes as a lack of resources and 
competence on the part of BG. But I cant agree that the service  provided by BG, although  
below expectations  in some respects, merits compensation at this level. Awards of 
compensation by this service should  not be punitive. Theyre  intended to reflect inconvenience 
or upset  above  that which could normally be expected when an insured event occurs.
In the case of the three complaints that I can consider, I dont consider that BG has caused 
more than a low level of inconvenience. My view is that the £50 that BG has offered is fair and 
reasonable compensation in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive give above, Im upholding  Mr As complaint and require British  Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay him £50 compensation unless such sum has already been  paid to 
him.
Ref: DRN48039425Unless already paid, British Gas Insurance Limited  must pay the compensation within  28 days  
of the date on which we tell it Mr A accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4803942