K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains about the rate of exchange used by TSB Bank plc to convert a payment 
into her account from Euros to Sterling. 
background
Ms W transferred a total of some €338,552 into her TSB sterling account. It was converted  
into the sum of £293,831. Ms W says her accountant advises her that this amount is less 
than she shouldve received. 
TSB said in its final response that it didnt make a mistake.  Itd used the exchange  rate on 
the day it received  the money and hadnt made any additional charges. 
Ms W says she was never made aware of TSBs  terms and conditions  which  mention using 
its standard exchange rate and didnt agree them when it took over her account.  She and 
her accountant relied on the published TSB International Services  Tariff terms which dont 
make any reference to any special TSB exchange rate. Its misleading  if TSB publishes two 
differing sets of terms and conditions. She says a true reflection of the exchange rate 
wouldve resulted  in her receiving an extra  £4,452. She wants  TSB to pay her this additional 
amount.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
Ms Ws accountant  thinks, by using  the historical  spot exchange rate, that she 
shouldve received more money  than she did. But TSBs terms and conditions  say it 
will use its standard exchange rate for buying  relevant currency. It doesnt say its 
standard rate will match  the spot rate. 
TSBs  International  Services  Tariff says it will use the exchange rate on the day the 
money is credited.  This doesnt contradict  the accounts terms or affect the outcome. 
The account  terms say TSB will use its standard exchange rate on the day it receives 
the money and they wouldve been  agreed  when Ms W agreed to open her account. 
There were  comparison sites that Ms W couldve used to shop around for the best 
available exchange rates. And she didnt contact  TSB before making the transfer. 
Hed expect her to have conducted her own due diligence to find an exchange rate 
she thought was value for money.  And its not TSBs fault she didnt do so.
TSB hasnt made an error as it appears to have applied its standard  rate correctly. 
And he cant ask it to pay Ms W an extra £4,452 as shed  like.
Ms W remains unhappy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its more likely that Ms W was made  aware of, and agreed to, the Personal Banking 
Terms and Conditions  when she opened  her account.
Ref: DRN40232062They say, amongst other things, that when  a payment is received into the account in a 
foreign currency the bank  will convert  it into sterling using its standard exchange rate that 
applies on the day it receives the payment.    
Ms W says she and her accountant  have  relied on TSBs International Services Tariff. That 
says when receiving  money from abroad, if a credit is made in a foreign currency the amount 
will be calculated  according to the exchange rate on the day the payment is credited.
Taking everything into account  I dont think these two sets of terms are contradictory.  Its just 
that the account terms specifically refer to TSB using its standard  exchange rate. I dont 
think thats inconsistent  with what is said in the International Tariff. And nowhere do any of 
the terms and conditions say TSB will use the spot exchange rate. 
So, whichever terms are applied I think TSB has acted reasonably by using its standard  
exchange rate to convert Ms Ws Euros into Sterling. And it appears  to have applied this rate 
appropriately to this transaction.
Furthermore, Ms W has a responsibility  to mitigate  any loss she says shes  suffered. Here 
Im not sure shes shown  she has done  so. She didnt  contact  TSB before making  the 
transfer and didnt check the exchange  rate she might get from it. She also doesnt appear to 
have researched the market to see if TSBs rate was value for money or if a more 
competitive exchange  rate was available  elsewhere.  If she had done its possible she 
mightve been able to achieve a better deal and exchange rate elsewhere.
Taking everything into account  I dont think its been  shown on balance that TSB has made  
an error. And I dont  think I can fairly or reasonably  require TSB to pay any more money to 
Ms W as shed  like.
Although I recognise  Ms Ws frustration I dont see any compelling reason to change the 
proposed outcome in this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4023206