K820x#14complaint
Miss Hs complaint against Lowell Portfolio I Ltd (Lowell) is that it incorrectly recorded  two 
defaults against her, doing  damage  to her credit  file. 
background
In December 2014, Lowell bought an account of Miss Hs from another business.  She said 
the previous business had defaulted her account  in November  2009, which  she was 
unhappy about as she says there was a dispute going on at the time regarding her 
outstanding balance. 
When Lowell  took over the account,  she says it defaulted her again.  This time in 
February 2015.
Miss H complained in January 2019. She said that Lowells now defaulted her twice,  and it 
shouldnt have. She says this has had a negative impact on her credit file, and that the first 
default should have dropped off in November 2015, after six years. 
She felt that both defaults had been incorrectly and unfairly applied,  as at the time of the 
original default  the account was in dispute. She believes that to apply a default in these 
circumstances is contrary to consumer  law, and that any claim for payment became statute-
barred.
.
She complained to Lowell, and it explained  that it had taken the date given to it by the 
previous business  as the original default  date. And as it had no reason to think  this wasnt  
correct, this is what it went ahead with. 
However, in deciding Miss Hs complaint, it elected  to give her the benefit of the doubt, and 
as a goodwill  gesture removed  the default entirely  from her file; wrote-off the remaining 
balance due; and closed the account. 
But Miss H didnt think this was enough  to resolve  matters. She believed  that there  had been 
two defaults incorrectly  recorded  one in November 2009 when the account was still with 
the original business, and another after Lowell  took over the debt in late 2014. She wanted 
compensation for both of these.
She also made a separate  complaint  against the credit reference agency,  for the mistakes 
she thought it had made. But I wont  comment any further in this regard here, as this 
complaints against  Lowell  only.
Miss H brought  her complaint to our service.  Our Investigator considered the evidence, 
obtaining further information from Lowell,  and came to the view that it had already dealt fairly 
with the complaint when it removed the default and closed the account.  So she didnt think it 
needed to do any more.
But Miss H disagreed. She felt our Investigator had many facts wrong, and that her view was 
based on inaccuracies and wasnt fair. She provided  further  information  in support of her 
complaint, and asked  for an ombudsmans review. 
Ref: DRN47460882my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that isnt a complaint we can uphold. 
To do so, Id need  to be convinced that Lowell made  a mistake that had a negative impact  
on Miss H, or that it treated her unfairly.  And on the evidence Id seen, I havent been.
My role is to assess the evidence, and reach  an outcome  thats fair to both  parties.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing for Miss H, and Id like to explain why Ive 
reached it. 
Miss Hs clearly believes she was defaulted twice by Lowell  both times incorrectly. But on 
the evidence Ive seen, the only time Lowell defaulted her was in February  2015,  after 
buying the debt in November 2014.  So thats  the only one I can look at  not the one she 
refers to from 2009.
I havent seen  any evidence to show me that Lowell was wrong in recording this default. It 
bought an account with an outstanding balance on it, and I can see it wrote  to Miss H 
explaining that if she settled this the default  would  be removed from her account. But the 
account wasnt settled,  so it stayed on.
Miss H is also unhappy  that Lowell placed a default  on an account where the debt was in 
dispute. But Ive not seen  any evidence  that Lowell was aware  of this when it bought the 
debt. So thats  again a matter for the previous owner of the debt. For the same reason, I 
wont be able to comment on whether or not the debt was statute-barred.
The current  situation  is that the defaults been  lifted, the balance has been written-off, and 
the account closed. In addition to this, Miss H wants compensation  for both defaults  in 
2009 and 2015. But I dont think compensations warranted here.  Lowell was only 
responsible for one of those defaults. And, as Ive said, I havent been  persuaded that 
recording the default was incorrect at that time. The fact the account was in default was a 
matter of fact, with an outstanding debt since 2007.
On this basis, while I can see Miss H is very frustrated at whats  happened,  I cant say that 
Lowell should  pay her any compensation. I dont think its made a mistake, and I cant say 
thats its treated  her unfairly. 
I do concede that some of the correspondence  on this complaint, both from before and 
during our services involvement, has been less than helpful and has on more  than one 
occasion confused dates/years. To this extent, especially given all the parties  involved in the 
wider complaint (the credit reference  agency, and the original debt owner),  I can see where  
confusion might have  arisen.  For any part weve played in this, I apologise. But it doesnt, 
and cant, change my findings on how I think Lowells acted.
Ref: DRN47460883my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4746088