K822xComplaint
Mr B is unhappy that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua)  unfairly applied  a default  to, and then 
closed, his personal credit card account.  This adversely affected his credit  score which  
damaged his business.
Background 
Mr B had an Aqua credit card from NewDay Ltd. He was self-employed,  and in 2018 he 
experienced some difficult personal circumstances and was unable  to work. 
Towards the end of 2018 he couldnt  make the required  payments into his account and fell 
into arrears. A default notice was sent in December 2018 and the account  closed in 
January 2019.
Mr B complained to NewDay  that they had been unfair in showing the account in default  in 
December 2018  and closing it in January 2019.  He said he had been told on the phone by 
NewDay in December that if he made  a payment of £145 prior to the 65th day of arrears, this 
would buy him some  time to find the required  money  to prevent the default. He said this 
incorrect information had caused the default and the subsequent closure,  and the negative 
impact on his credit rating.
Mr B agreed a payment plan with NewDay  in January 2019 who stopped  applying  interest  
and charges to the account.  
In their final response to his complaint,  NewDay  acknowledged that Mr B had been given 
incorrect information on the phone in December  in that he was told if he paid £145 within  
65 days of arrears his account  would remain open. They refunded  three months over-limit 
fees and credited an additional £15 to his account by way of an apology. This totalled £51.
However, they said that as he had not made  a payment  to his account since  October, and a 
default notice  had been sent to him in December, the account was correctly  closed in 
January. 
The agreed repayment was not enough to get the account out of arrears. In April the account 
was defaulted,  and in May the debt was sold to a third party. Mr B complained  to NewDay  
about this but did not get a final response.
Mr B did not accept their response to his initial  complaint, so brought this, and his 
subsequent unanswered  complaint  to us. 
He said that NewDay  were unfair in closing his account as they had given him incorrect  
information during  the process, and they were unfair in defaulting and selling  his debt to a 
third party as he was maintaining an agreed  payment plan.  He said this default had badly 
affected his credit rating and as a result  he was finding it very difficult  to obtain credit for his 
business, and his existing loans had become  more  expensive. In settlement  of his complaint, 
he wanted:
the default notice removed from his credit file
the credit  card reopened with the balance as it was in December 2018 (£5,200)
Any charges  and interest applied after the account was closed  to be repaid
Compensation of £20,000 due to the damage  caused to his business
Ref: DRN44324942NewDay told the investigator that they acknowledged the incorrect  information they had 
given Mr B in December and agreed this had caused confusion.  However, they said that it 
wouldnt have made a difference, as even  if Mr B had made the payment of £145  he said he 
was intending  to make, it wouldnt have cleared the arrears so wouldnt have  been  enough to 
prevent the account closing. They said the amount required to clear  the arrears  was included 
in the default letter  he received so he would have  known how much he needed to pay and 
when.
They also told the investigator that they agreed a reduced payment plan with Mr B of £1 a 
month for three months and this was extended.  At the start of this agreement, and at the 
renewal point, NewDay said they wrote to Mr B warning him that the debt may be sold as the 
account was still in arrears. So, Mr B knew this could happen, and they had acted fairly and 
in lines with the terms and conditions of his account.  
They said that the level of arrears had continued  to rise, so it would be irresponsible  of them  
to request the altering  or removal of the information  held at credit reference agencies.  They  
also would  not reinstate  the account as the level of debt meant they thought  Mr B wouldnt 
be able to meet the minimum payment. 
NewDay acknowledged the confusion they caused in December, and that they hadnt 
responded finally to his second complaint. They offered Mr B a further £60 in compensation. 
The investigator thought that what NewDay told Mr B on the telephone in December was 
inaccurate and caused  confusion. However,  he also thought  that even if Mr B had made  the 
payment of £145  at that time, it wouldnt have prevented  his account closing as it was in 
arrears by a much larger amount. And as a default  notice  had been  sent to him in 
December, unless the arrears had been totally cleared, the account  would have  been  closed 
anyway. 
He thought thought  that NewDay had been fair and reasonable in their handling of his 
account, in that they had sent default letters as required, had spoken to Mr B about  the 
arrears on his account and had tried to get Mr B to complete an income and expenditure 
review, so that a payment plan could  be put in place  before his account was defaulted. Mr B 
only did this once the account  had been  closed. 
He thought that NewDay were fair in the process  they followed in selling the debt to a third 
party, as this was within the terms and conditions  of the account,  and they had twice given 
Mr B written  warning that this may happen.
The investigator also thought that NewDay were being reasonable in reporting the default 
and account closure  to credit reference agencies  as the information  they reported  was 
accurate. He therefore also thought  they were fair in their decision not to amend the records 
as a result  of the complaint so didnt need to do anything more. 
In recognition of the confusion, distress and inconvenience Mr B was caused  by both the 
incorrect information NewDay  gave  him in December, and during the handling of his second 
complaint, the investigator thought NewDay should  pay him £200.
Ref: DRN44324943Mr B did not accept this view. 
He said he had been in a position to make the required payment to stop the account being 
closed. He would have been  able to borrow the money from his business partner. He only 
didnt do so as NewDay had already closed the account. He said he thought what  he had 
been told on the phone was accurate, so paid no attention to the default  warning  letter 
NewDay sent as the information  differed. 
As Mr B did not accept the investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would first like to say that I sympathise deeply  for the awful  personal circumstances that led 
up to this complaint.  I cannot imagine how difficult it was at the time and since.  I sincerely 
hope things are getting better. 
In considering Mr Bs complaints, I need to decide whether NewDay have treated Mr B fairly 
in their decision to close  his account,  and whether the process they followed to do this, and 
the effects it had, was also fair. Ive also thought about whether it was fair and reasonable for 
NewDay to sell Mr Bs debt to a third party.
Having considered what has been submitted and said,  I agree with the investigators  view. I 
understand Mr B will be disappointed,  so I will explain  why Ive come  to this decision.
The credit limit on Mr Bs account  was £5,200.  From  August 2018, Mr Bs balance  had been 
over this limit. He made  payments to the account each month, but they werent large  enough 
to reduce the arrears. And then, in November and December, no payments were made. 
Because of this, NewDay decided the account was being operated  outside  its terms and 
conditions. So, it sent Mr B a default notice asking him to bring the account up to date by the 
beginning of January, or it would be closed. The confusion occurred because Mr B spoke to 
NewDay on the same day the default  notice was sent. They  gave different advice, saying he 
needed to make a lower  payment by a later date in January. Mr B telephoned  them  again  
the day before this later date and was told his account had already been  closed.  
This was confusing for Mr B, and I can see how this probably caused him distress, but I think  
the account would probably have been  closed  anyway. I think this, because to prevent it 
closing, he would have  had to make a significantly bigger payment than he had said he 
would. And having  listened to the phone calls between him and NewDay,  I dont think  he had 
the money to pay off any of the arrears  in December or January, let alone the larger  amount. 
This is because he said he had other priority  debts at the time that he couldnt  meet,  he 
never actually committed to making the payment, and only said he hoped  to be able to, as 
some money should have  come in by then.  
I understand Mr B says he took no notice of the default notice that was sent, but the 
implications of non-payment, I think,  were clearly stated in it, so that should have prompted 
Mr B to query the conflicting information hed received. He didnt do so. I think  it was fair and 
Ref: DRN44324944reasonable of NewDay  to close his account,  despite  the incorrect  information he was given 
in December. I do however think that Mr B should be given some compensation for the 
distress he was caused, and I think £200 is a reasonable amount.
NewDay and Mr B agreed a three-month payment plan starting in February, paying £1 a 
month. In the phone call where this was agreed, I think  it was clear that NewDay  warned 
Mr B that although there would be no interest  or charges added to the account,  he would not 
be reducing the arrears  on the account  and as such he should, if able, make larger 
payments. I think it was clear, from the letters he was sent, that NewDay  may sell his debt to 
a third party even  though  he was on a payment plan.  As such,  I dont think  they acted  
unfairly in ultimately  selling the debt as they did, and I cant see that Mr B was 
disadvantaged by this. So, I dont consider it would be fair for me to tell NewDay to reinstate  
his account.
I also think that NewDay have acted fairly in their decisions to place markers on Mr Bs credit 
file, and not to remove  those  markers, as they have a responsibility  to accurately report the 
facts about someones  credit history. I understand Mr B says this has had a negative impact  
on his ability  to get credit, and losses to his business, but I cant say NewDay has done 
anything wrong  in this regard.  So, it would  be unfair  of me to hold them responsible  for these  
losses.
My final decision
I partially uphold  Mr Bs complaint. I direct NewDay Ltd to pay Mr B £200  for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by the confusing information  he was given.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4432494