K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc will not refund  the money he lost after falling victim 
to a scam.
background
I issued my provisional decision, which is attached  to and forms part of this final decision,  in 
August 2020.  
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was minded to uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
responses to my provisional  decision 
Mr P read my provisional decision and confirmed he has nothing  further to add. 
HSBC indicated it would settle the matter as a gesture  of goodwill but pointed  out it didnt 
agree with everything Id said. It didnt provide any further evidence for me to consider. It 
also pointed out it hadnt received an investigators view on the case  before it had been 
considered by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted HSBCs position that it is settling  this complaint as a gesture of goodwill and its 
concern that no investigators view had been given on the case. But HSBC  received my 
provisional assessment  dated 18 August 2020  and was given the opportunity to make  any 
representations in response to it. 
As neither party has provided anything new for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  I indicated in my provisional decision. I remain of the view that this 
complaint should  be upheld  for the reasons  set out in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint against 
HSBC UK Bank Plc. HSBC UK Bank Plc should now:
-refund  Mr P the £60,013.50 hes lost through the scam
-As this money originated from Mr Ps savings and would more  likely than not have 
stayed in the savings accounts for some  time,  HSBC should pay interest on the funds 
at the relevant savings account  interest rates from 22 January 2018 until the date of 
settlement* 
-pay Mr P £250 for the material distress and inconvenience  he experienced
*If HSBC considers  that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr P how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr P a tax 
Ref: DRN45707522deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
HSBC UK Bank Plc must  pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we tell it 
Mr P accepts my final decision.  It if pays  later than this, it must  also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 October  2020.
Claire Marsh
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN45707523COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
background
Between 21 and 23 January 2018, Mr P received  a number of phone calls from someone claiming to 
be from HSBCs  fraud department. It turned out the caller was a scammer. Mr P fell victim to a safe 
account scam and transferred over £80,000 from his accounts with HSBC  and then transferred 
£36,000 from savings  accounts he held at another bank. 
HSBC was able to recover  £19,986.50 but said Mr P was responsible for the remaining loss. 
Mr P has raised  a separate complaint about the money transferred from his accounts held elsewhere. 
So in this decision, Im only looking at the transactions that happened on his HSBC accounts.
the scam
Mr P told me that the scammer first contacted him during  the afternoon on 21 January  2018. He told 
Mr P someone was trying  to use his account to make payments. Mr P explains the scammer called 
from what appeared to be a genuine HSBC telephone number. 
Mr P told me he believed what the scammer  was telling  him because earlier that day hed made  a 
genuine payment that was larger than usual at an electronics retailer and he thought what the 
scammer was saying was linked to that. Mr P says the scammer went  through security procedures 
and sounded professional.  The scammer  told him HSBCs fraud team  would need to look into the 
matter further. The scammer gave Mr P a security code and told him they would ring back later that 
evening. 
Mr P recalls  he was contacted later that evening  at around  9.30pm. The scammer  called again from 
what appeared to be a genuine HSBC telephone number and asked Mr P for the reference number 
hed been given earlier. 
The scammer told Mr P some of HSBCs staff were being investigated  for fraud,  in conjunction with 
the Police and the financial regulator, the FCA. Mr P was told his money was at risk and he needed  to 
log into his online banking to check it. 
Mr P recalls  that everything initially appeared to be normal. The scammer told him someone was 
trying to move his money out of his accounts  but he couldnt see it because  it was pending.  The 
scammer instructed  Mr P to download some software from the internet so they could show him the 
pending activity. When Mr P did so, the scammer suggested there was a problem with his internet 
connection and he needed  to enter some details  from his router.  Whilst Mr P was at the router, the 
scammer gained remote access to Mr Ps computer and moved £50,000 from his ISA account and 
£50,000 from his savings account into his current account.  This was over 97% of the money Mr P had 
saved. 
When Mr P returned from the router, he said he was shocked and alarmed to see that his funds  had 
moved from his savings account without his knowledge. He explains he didnt understand how this 
could have happened unless bank staff were  involved. 
The scammer told Mr P not to move the money back into his savings account as that would alert the 
staff members that the bank wanted  to catch.  The scammer told Mr P he would contact him again  the 
next morning to let him know the next steps. 
The scammer called Mr P as arranged. Mr P said it was the same gentleman hed spoken to the 
previous day. He said they talked generally  and the scammer engaged Mr P in conversation about  his 
hobbies. The scammer told Mr P 15 other victims at the same  branch had been  identified. Mr P said 
the scammer sounded  rational and knew a lot about  the banking system.  
Ref: DRN45707524Mr P was told the only way he could prevent  corrupt staff from removing his funds was to transfer 
them into different accounts in his name. The scammer  said the regulator had set up three new 
accounts in his name where he could  move his money to. The scammer instructed Mr P to make 
payments online and in branch. 
the payments
Mr P made three payments  from his HSBC current account using the funds the scammer had 
transferred into the accounts  from his savings. Each payment went to new payee. 
The first payment of £25,000  was made using his internet  banking at almost  7am on 22 January  
2018. HSBC says this payment was made  immediately and not flagged for review. Mr P says HSBC  
rang his landline  and a member of staff asked him to confirm the account  details and the amount. He 
says that nothing else was discussed. 
Later that day, the scammer called Mr P to say there had been  further discussion with the Police  and 
the regulator and he was required to transfer £35,000 in branch. Mr P explains he went  to the Premier 
Banking desk and gave the teller details for the account he wanted to pay, including  the account 
holding branch.  Mr P says the teller asked him no questions about  the transfer other than to query  the 
branch information as the sort code didnt relate to the branch Mr P thought  it was linked  to. He says 
the teller told him the sort code  was for a branch  in another part of the country. 
The teller made  an error when setting up the payment and keyed it to be sent in November instead of 
January. This wasnt  noticed  at the time. 
When the scammer called Mr P to say the money hadnt arrived, Mr P checked  the paperwork  hed 
been given and went straight to the nearest branch  to amend the payment date. The money was sent 
just after 5pm that evening. Mr P says he was particularly  anxious  that the money should  go that day 
because he didnt want to jeopardise  the work of the Police and the regulator. He says neither  branch  
asked him why he was moving the money or what it was for. HSBC  say Mr P advised both branches 
the payment was genuine and going to another account in his name. It suggests Mr P wouldnt have 
told either branch  the truth about the payments because he thought he was helping to prevent 
financial crime.  It suggests  Mr P was calm and friendly  when he visited the branches and did not 
appear to be under any pressure. 
On 23 January, Mr P made the third payment  of £20,000. It was made  using his internet banking just 
after 7am. Mr P says the payment went straight through with no contact from the bank. HSBC  hasnt 
provided any evidence to suggest this payment was flagged  for review. 
Mr P says the scammer then instructed him to go to branch to make another  payment. Mr P says that 
as he was getting ready  to leave home, he received  a phone  call from another  gentleman who said he 
was from HSBCs fraud department. This caller was a genuine member of HSBC  staff who was 
contacting Mr P to let him know the bank had concerns that he may be a victim of fraud.  HSBC  had 
been alerted to the potential of financial harm by the beneficiary bank that had received the third 
payment. Mr P made no further payments and had no further contact with the scammer.  HSBC was 
able to recover £19,986.50 from payment three. 
Mr Ps complaint 
Mr P says HSBC let him down. Hes concerned  at the amount of information  the scammer  knew about  
him. He says he never received any written notifications about this type of fraud,  so didnt  know what  
to look out for. He told me he doesnt use social media  and wasnt aware of this type of scam  before it 
happened to him. 
Mr P was disappointed  the beneficiary  account details  werent checked even though hed provided  his 
name as the reference when making  the payments. Hes also concerned that the accounts his funds 
were transferred into were  operating illegally. 
Ref: DRN45707525He points out that £100,000 was moved between his accounts without any query  or warning from staff 
about the unusual  nature of the payments,  despite  visiting  two branches whilst  the scam was 
happening. 
HSBCs response
HSBC looked into Mr Ps concerns. In its final response, it said it hadnt been  able to identify any 
instances where  the bank had compromised  Mr Ps information.  It said that it wouldnt have been able 
to check  any details about the accounts  Mr P sent the money to. It provided Mr P with some  examples 
of the warnings about fraud that had appeared  on its website and online banking pages. 
It accepted  Mr P had been tricked by a sophisticated fraud but disagreed that the bank should  be 
liable for the money  hed lost. 
Mr P didnt agree,  so referred his complaint to us. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im currently minded to uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
relevant considerations 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to take into 
account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where  appropriate, what I consider to have  been  good  industry  practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process  payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers account.  And I have taken that into 
account when deciding what is fair and reasonable  in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
Regulated firms  like HSBC are required to conduct their business with due skill, care and 
diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers (Principle 6). 
Firms  also have a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish and 
maintain effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable requirements and 
standards under  the regulatory  system and for countering the risk that the firm might be used 
to further  financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R, which  has applied since 2001).  Over the years,  the 
FSA and its successor  the FCA have published  a series of papers setting  out non-exhaustive  
examples of good and poor practice found when reviewing  measures taken by banks to 
counter financial crime.
Firms  are required to comply with legal  and regulatory anti-money laundering  and countering 
the financing of terrorism requirements. In July 2017 those requirements included maintaining  
proportionate and risk-sensitive  policies  and procedures to identify, assess  and manage 
money laundering  risk  for example  through customer due diligence measures  and the 
ongoing monitoring of the business relationship (including through the scrutiny of transactions  
undertaken throughout the course of the relationship). 
The law itself also recognises that a bank may liable to its customer  if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although  not necessarily proof)  for believing  
that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of its customer  
(known as the Quincecare duty). I am mindful, however, that the courts have interpreted  
Ref: DRN45707526Quincecare narrowly  and the circumstances of this complaint are different to that case. I am 
not suggesting  that Quincecare applies  in this case, only to make the point that the broad  
legal position that a bank  is expected to process payments that a customer  authorises is not 
absolute and Quincecare is an example of that.
In addition, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should in any event have 
taken proactive steps to: 
identify  and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised by the FCA in recent 
years and by the British Bankers Associations  February  2016 report improving  outcomes for 
customers in vulnerable  circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could  involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something  also recognised 
by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers from Financial  harm  
as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which a number of banks and trade 
associations  although  not HSBC - were involved in the development of). It gave 
recommendations to organisations for protecting customers from financial harm  that might 
occur as a result of fraud or financial abuse. It also gives guidance  on how to recognise 
customers who might  be at risk, how to assess the potential risks to the individual and how to 
take the necessary  actions to prevent or minimise financial harm.
in relation to branch  transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when  available. 
The Banking  Protocol is a multi-agency  initiative between the Police,  financial sector
organisations (including banks, building societies  and the post office) and Trading Standards
aimed at identifying  customers who are in the process of being defrauded and implementing
safeguarding procedures to prevent their repeat victimisation and further loss of funds. 
In broad terms, according to UK Finances toolkit  for Payment Service Providers,  financial businesses 
commit to:
Look  out for any unusual or out of character withdrawals and to implement the Banking 
Protocol procedure  when such  transactions are identified.
Discreetly question the customer  about the withdrawal or transaction  and their reasons for 
making it, keeping in mind that the customer may have been told they are helping to catch a 
corrupt bank employee and may have been given  a cover  story  to tell if asked about  the 
transaction.
Consider the responses against  what  they expect  as normal activity on the individuals 
account. If they are concerned or suspicious that the customer may be the victim of fraud, 
they should notify  a senior member  of staff,  who should take the customer  to a quiet area and 
ask further questions  to establish more details.
If the senior colleague believes  the customer  is the victim of fraud,  either as a result  of the 
answers provided or through their general  behaviour, they should call the Police immediately 
who will attend  the branch to speak to the customer.
The Banking  Protocol procedures  are not limited  to elderly or vulnerable customers, or certain fraud 
types, and bank staff are encouraged to contact the Police even if they are not
sure. For example, UK Finances Bank Colleague  FAQs says:
Ref: DRN45707527Does it only relate to elderly or vulnerable  customers?
No, whilst crime data analysis and demographics  indicate  that the 70 and over age
group are targeted more than other age groups  for courier  & rogue trader frauds,
anyone can be the victim of fraud and we should strive to protect all customers from
financial harm.
Does the Banking Protocol only relate to courier  fraud or rogue trader  offences?
No. Customers may have been defrauded in several  ways. Courier  fraud, and rogue
trader offences are two of the most common offences in which suspects  ask the victim to 
attend banks to make  withdrawals or transfers. However, customers may have been the 
victim of another fraud, such as romance fraud or investment fraud. The Banking Protocol 
process should be followed for any transaction which  you feel is unusual as you may prevent 
the customer  from becoming a victim  of fraud.
Im a bank colleague what should I look out for?
When a customer requests a cash withdrawal or transfer, firstly consider your internal
training and procedures.
In the circumstances presented does the request appear to be out of character.  Is the
request for a significant amount? Does the account history show any similar
withdrawals or transfers  recently? Has the customer provided  an explanation for the
withdrawal? Are they elderly, vulnerable, upset or nervous? Is the customer on the
phone to while making the request (in some cases suspects stay on the phone  to the
victims whilst they are conducting transactions)? Bear in mind  that as part of the fraud the 
customer may have been convinced, they are helping to catch corrupt bank staff and given  a 
story to tell you.
Im a bank colleague what are my responsibilities?
If you identify  a customer requesting a cash withdrawal or transfer you think is
unusual, commence the Banking Protocol procedure. Ask the customer questions
about the transaction. Consider the Banking Protocol  questions on the prompt card. If
you have any concerns raise  the issue  with a senior  colleague.
I think  a customer may be a victim but Im not sure. Should I still follow the
Banking Protocol?
Yes. If you have questioned the customer and are still not sure,  the police urge you
to still call them. It is not possible to answer every what if so if you are suspicious
or concerned  but are not completely sure then still report this following the Banking
Protocol. You might prevent a customer becoming the victim of a crime.
Taking all these things into account,  I consider that at the time of the payments in January  2018,  
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various  risks,  
including anti-money  laundering, countering  the financing  of terrorism, and preventing fraud 
and scams.
Have had systems in place  including  in branch  to look out for unusual transactions or 
other signs that might  indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). 
This is particularly so given the increase  in sophisticated  fraud and scams in recent years  
including safe account  scams   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used,  have taken additional 
steps, or make  additional  checks, before  processing  a payment, or in some cases  declined to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm 
from fraud. 
Ref: DRN45707528In this case I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably  in their dealings with Mr P 
when it processed  three payments to new payees  totalling £80,000 over a two-day  period. 
Did HSBC act fairly  and reasonably in Mr Ps case?
As Ive explained, as a matter of good practice HSBC staff should have been  on the lookout for 
unusual and out of character transactions at the time Mr P fell victim to this scam.
Ive thought about each  payment Mr P made, and whether HSBC ought  fairly and reasonably to have 
done more. To work  out whether  HSBC missed opportunities to identify that Mr P was at risk of 
financial harm, I will think about each in payment  he made  in turn, as well as considering the overall 
sequence of the events as they developed.
payment one
From what Ive seen I think this payment of £25,000 was out of character and unusual for Mr P. 
The £100,000  the scammer transferred into Mr Ps current account from his two savings accounts 
utilised almost  all of his savings. These transfers were considerably higher in value than any other 
transfer Mr P had made. HSBC has provided  me with statements for both accounts.  Mr P only made 
two transfers from his savings account  into his current account and he didnt make any withdrawals 
from his ISA at all during  the almost  three-year period covered by the statements.  He saved regularly 
each month  into both accounts. 
Ive also looked at Mr Ps current account statements for the year before the scam happened.  For the 
most part, Mr Ps current account is used for day to day spending, bills and household  expenses. 
Over the course of the year,  Mr Ps account balance  went over £10,000  briefly. But its clear that hed 
moved that money into his current account to then pay his HSBC credit card.  For Mr P to have a 
balance of over £100,000 in his current account was a significant change  to the way it usually ran.
I recognise that moving money from savings accounts into a current account may not always  be a 
cause for concern. Customers can and do save up for special purchases. But Mr Ps intention to 
make a transfer of £25,000 to a new payee after increasing his current  account  balance  by £100,000  
does stand out as being particularly out of character for him. Moving £100,000 is, I think, for many 
customers, something they would  only do once  in their lifetime, if at all. Im also mindful  that £25,000 
was the maximum amount of money Mr P could move online  to an external account  in one day. So I 
need to consider whether  HSBC did enough to protect Mr P from financial harm given  the pattern  of 
unusual and out of character transactions.
HSBC says this payment of £25,000 wasnt flagged for review, and even if it had been, Mr P would 
have said it was going  to his own personal account because this is what the scammer had told him to 
say. But Mr P recalls that HSBC did contact him on his landline to confirm the account  details and the 
amount.
I have no reason to doubt Mr Ps recollections of what  happened at the time.  But if Mr P is mistaken, it 
surprises me that HSBC  wouldnt have wanted to take further steps to investigate this large and out of 
character payment to a new beneficiary further.  At the time this payment was initiated, HSBC should  
fairly and reasonably have had systems in place  to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud and for the reasons Ive explained,  Im 
persuaded there are clear  indications here that Mr P could have been at risk of financial harm.
Even if I accept that HSBC  called Mr P before the payment was made, from Mr Ps recollections of 
that conversation,  Im not currently  persuaded that it sufficiently questioned him about the payment he 
was about to make. Mr P recalls he was asked  about  the account  details and to verify the amount. 
There is nothing to suggest the purpose of the payment was explored before the payment instruction  
was accepted. 
Ref: DRN45707529While I accept  that bank staff ultimately  have to make decisions based on information they are given  
by customers  it is up to bank staff to find out enough information about  the purpose of the payment 
before they make such decisions. Nothing that either side has currently said or provided  makes me 
think HSBC did enough  to cause Mr P to stop and question this first payment he was intending to 
make, especially given HSBCs  current position is that it didnt contact Mr P in relation to this payment 
at all. I also note the fraud warnings HSBC  has referred to on its website were  generic and not 
specifically relevant  to the situation he was in. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest  HSBC clearly 
warned Mr P about the risk of safe account  scams  at the time he made this payment. 
Ive thought carefully about  what  was likely to have happened  if the bank had asked
further, probing, questions at the time this payment was made and of course I cant know  for sure. So 
I need to decide what I think is more likely  than not to have happened.
Having done so, Im currently not persuaded it is more likely than not Mr P would have been able to 
sufficiently reassure HSBC  he was not the victim of fraud. HSBC says that even if it had asked  Mr P 
about the payment, he would have said it was going to his own personal account. Mr P has confirmed 
this is what  the scammer told him to say. On the face of it, that could be a plausible reason  for moving  
the money. But I would still expect bank staff to keep in mind that customers  such as Mr P may have 
been given a cover story  this is a common feature  of scams, and in particularly a common hallmark 
of a safe account  scam - and is something Im satisfied  HSBC was aware of at the time. 
So HSBC would have  still needed to take into account the possibility that Mr P had been given a 
cover story and asked  him questions to challenge the purpose of the payment in order to be satisfied 
that he wasnt  likely to be at risk of financial harm. I think if the bank had intervened and a member  of 
bank staff had asked  him probing questions about why he was moving the money, such  as what  his 
plans for the money  were  and why £100,000 had moved the previous day, he wouldnt have been 
able to answer  persuasively when  put on the spot. In saying this, Im especially mindful that Mr P has 
said the scammer  didnt give him a detailed  cover story to tell the bank.  Mr P says the scammer spoke 
to him before each payment  was made to explain  what to expect. He says the scammer told him to 
say he was moving  the money  to another one of his accounts but never  gave him any additional 
details. 
Ive thought about whether Mr P might have been concerned about  sharing information  with HSBC, 
had they made enquiries, given he thought the bank was involved in the scam.  But HSBC should still 
have been concerned  if Mr P did not freely share the reasons  for making the transfers.  In my view 
HSBC should have prevented the payment from going  through  until it was satisfied Mr P wasnt likely 
to be at risk of financial harm. 
To do this, the bank needed to use its knowledge  and experience to warn Mr P by bringing  to life what 
this type of scam looked and felt like. If the bank had done  so, I think Mr P wouldve realised  and 
understood what was likely to be happening. I think its more likely than not he would  not have then 
gone on to make the payment. 
I am currently persuaded HSBC fairly  and reasonably ought to have done more when Mr P attempted 
to make this first payment of £25,000 to the scammer whether it spoke to Mr P or not, and if it had 
done so, its more likely than not that Mr P would not have made  any of the payments he did because  
the unfolding scam would have come  to light sooner.  
payment two
Mr P made a further payment of £35,000 in branch  later that day. Mr P interacted with colleagues in 
two branches before that payment was made. The first branch made  an administration  error and 
future dated the payment, so Mr P went to a second branch that afternoon to amend  the date and 
send the payment.  
As I have explained earlier in this provisional decision, branch staff should be on the lookout for any 
unusual or out of character transactions. Mr P was making a second large, out of character payment 
to another new payee. 
Ref: DRN457075210When that payment went through, Mr P had moved £60,000  away from the bank  that day. Due to how 
unusual that behaviour  was, Id have expected staff in both branches to have asked Mr P some 
further questions to challenge the purpose of the payment.  HSBC would have been able to see that 
£100,000 had recently been moved into Mr Ps current account and that a payment of £25,000 had 
been made first thing that morning. 
HSBC hasnt  provided  much detail about exactly what  happened in either branch, but it says Mr P 
confirmed the payment  as genuine and said the money was going to his own account. I think  this was 
a missed opportunity  to engage in a meaningful dialogue with Mr P about  the emerging pattern  of 
activity on his accounts and I dont agree with HSBCs  position  that Mr P wouldnt have told the truth 
about the payment if asked. 
I say this because Mr P has recalled a conversation in the first branch about some confusion  with the 
beneficiary accounts  sort code. HSBC  hasnt provided any details of this conversation,  but I am 
persuaded by Mr Ps consistent recollections that a conversation along these  lines most likely took 
place. Mr P remembers saying he thought the money was being sent to an account held at a 
particular branch,  but HSBC indicated the account  details related to branch  in an entirely different part 
of the country. Against this back drop, it seems unclear to me why this payment  wasnt recognised  as 
being unusual or why there  was no concern that Mr P may have been at risk of financial harm. 
Already Mr Ps cover  story that he was transferring  money to another  account in his own name held 
elsewhere started to look flimsy,  so I dont think it would have taken much further probing before  the 
scam would have started to unravel. For instance, had the banks employee asked for evidence of the 
beneficiary account  such  as a bank card to double check  the payment was being  made  to the right 
place. Mr P would not have  been able to provide  any further  details, which  would have stood out 
given that he was purporting  to be moving  the money to another one of his own accounts.  
Mr P says the scammer only told him to say he was transferring the money  to another  account in his 
name. Mr P says he had a lot on his mind that day. Hes explained he needed  to finalise some  
documents for his work and going back to a branch at short notice had impacted upon a work meeting 
he was due to attend. I dont think Mr P would have given plausible, natural answers to any specific 
probing questions had he been asked.  
So Im not persuaded  that either HSBC branch did enough, if anything at all, to try to protect  Mr P. Ive 
not seen any evidence to suggest either branch asked further questions in order to be satisfied that 
Mr P wasnt likely to be at risk of financial harm.  Instead  it appears as if the branch staff accepted at 
face value that this money was being transferred to another account  in Mr Ps name, even though the 
transaction was unusual and out of character. 
payment three
Im not going  to go in too much detail about this payment. This is because  I think  HSBC  ought  fairly 
and reasonably to have prevented any further payments to the scammer well before this point.  But I 
am surprised  there was no interaction  with HSBC before a payment of a further  £20,000 was made. 
Given a spending pattern indicative of financial abuse or financial harm was present,  I think  it would 
have been fair and reasonable for HSBC  to take steps to satisfy itself that Mr P wasnt at risk when 
making this payment too. 
overall
Im satisfied that if HSBC had acted  fairly  and reasonably it could  have prevented  the fraud  from 
continuing any further, and before Mr P made the first payment. If it had done so, I think its more 
likely than not he would  not have  lost the money he did. 
Ive thought about whether Mr P should also have to bear some responsibility for the loss he suffered, 
and whether he acted reasonably in the circumstances. But in the particular circumstances  of this 
complaint, I think Mr P acted  reasonably.  This was a sophisticated  social engineering  scam which  
lasted for several days.  
Ref: DRN457075211Mr P has explained that hed never heard of this type of scam  before it happened to him. Mr P recalls 
that the scammer was credible and professional.  Hes said the scammer replicated  security 
procedures and contacted  him from a phone number which appeared  to be the banks genuine 
number. Against this backdrop, I think it was reasonable for Mr P to think  he was dealing with the 
genuine bank. 
Ive thought about the conversation Mr P remembers happening in the first branch  and whether Mr P 
ought to have  realised something was wrong  because of the confusion  over the beneficiary branch. 
I consider this to be an indication that something might not be right.  But I think HSBC  was better  
placed to pick up on the potential  significance  of what  Mr P was saying. As I have already explained, 
banks should be on the lookout for the possibility  of financial harm  and I think this was a missed 
opportunity to engage with Mr P about the payment  he was intending to make. 
In the circumstances I am satisfied that HSBC  should fairly and reasonably compensate Mr P for the 
full loss he has suffered.
impact on Mr P 
Finally, Ive considered  whether HSBC should pay Mr P compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced as a result of the banks actions. Being targeted by a scammer and 
being a victim of a crime is undoubtedly going  to have a lasting impact on him. But Im not able to 
award compensation that flows specifically from the actions of the scammer.
Having said that, I am persuaded the banks failure to act and to prevent financial  harm has
had a lasting impact on him too. If HSBC had done what it ought to have done,  it would have  
intervened to stop the financial losses Mr P experienced before they happened, meaning  the overall 
impact of this crime would have been  lessened. 
Mr P told me his savings  were intended for his pension and losing  the money  has changed  his 
retirement plans. When I spoke to Mr P, he explained  he is still able to work at the moment  and feels  
fortunate that it could have  been a lot worse. But I am mindful that he is over 70 years  of age and has 
needed to continue working for longer  than hed anticipated to try and replace some  of the money  
thats been  lost. So I think HSBC should  pay Mr P £250 in compensation to acknowledge  the 
uncertainty and worry for his future that its failings have caused.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I intend to uphold Mr Ps complaint. My provisional decision is that 
HSBC UK Bank plc should;
-refund Mr P the £60,013.50 hes lost through the scam
-As this money  originated from Mr Ps savings  and would more  likely than not have  stayed in 
the savings accounts  for some  time,  HSBC  should pay interest on the funds at the relevant  
savings account  interest rates  from 22 January 2018 until the date of settlement 
-pay Mr P £250 for the material distress and inconvenience he experienced
If HSBC considers it is required to deduct  tax from the interest element  of my proposed award,  it 
should provide Mr P with a tax deduction  certificate.  He can then use that to reclaim that amount from 
HSBC if he is entitled to do so. 
Both parties should now send me any comments or information  theyd like me to consider before 18 
September 2020.
Claire Marsh
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4570752