K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that the terms  of his fixed sum loan agreement financed by Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc were  misrepresented. He wants compensation.
background
Mr L tells us he took out this loan in 2015,  to finance a vehicle he was acquiring  from a 
dealer Ill refer to as T. He says he was told - and that he believed - he was entering into a 
similar type loan agreement to that which hed used  previously to finance  vehicles. And that 
this would mean hed be able to return the vehicle after making half the payments. But Mr L 
tells us hes now found that this option  isnt available  and that hes required to settle  the 
whole loan. He feels that the terms of the fixed  sum loan were misrepresented.  
Santander told us Mr L had signed the PCP agreement whilst on Ts premises. And that hed 
been provided with all the required documentation which explained  the terms of the loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said Mr L had 
signed to say hed been provided with relevant documentation and that hed understood the 
terms of the agreement. And she said the agreement  was headed Fixed Sum Loan  
Agreement. She thought it was for the consumer to review the agreement  before signing. 
And she didnt think Santander  had done  anything wrong in rejecting Mr Ls claim.
Mr L didnt agree with this outcome  and insisted the agreement had been misrepresented.  
As its not been  possible to resolve  this complaint  an ombudsmans been asked to make  the 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr L has experienced  some  inconvenience and frustration in trying to terminate this 
agreement. I can understand his disappointment  in learning that hed taken out a loan of a 
different type to that which hed intended.
Mr Ls complaint relates to the alleged misrepresentation of his fixed sum loan agreement.  
Whilst he doesnt attribute  blame  to T - only to Santander - as I understand it the pre- 
agreement negotiations were conducted  through T. He told the adjudicator  that there was 
initial phone contact  and then he visited Ts premises to sign the agreement and collect  the 
vehicle.
As Mr Ls complaint is brought  against Santander Im required to decide if its dealt with this 
fairly. Im not deciding  on the merits of any underlying claim which  Mr L might  have against 
T. Although I will consider  this aspect in deciding if Santander has looked at his complaint 
properly.
Ref: DRN46085352Whilst I dont apply  the law - directly - I do take it into account.  Relevant legislation here 
includes section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Briefly  summarised  this gives  the 
consumer a like claim against the supplier of finance (Santander) as he would have against 
the credit  broker of the agreement (T) if theres been  a misrepresentation of the agreement 
by T. A misrepresentation  is a false statement  of fact which induces  a consumer to enter an 
agreement and incur  a loss as a result of the misrepresentation. I should  also say that a 
misrepresentation doesnt have to be intentional. So even if T had inadvertently mistaken  the 
nature of the agreement it was brokering - and given Mr L the wrong details - this could still 
be a misrepresentation.
Where the information  were given is incomplete or contradictory - as some  of it is here - Im 
required to resolve  disputes  of fact on the balance of probabilities. And in doing this I take 
into account documentary  evidence as well as what the parties  tell us.
As any recordings of the initial telephone conversations arent available - they occurred more 
than four years ago - Ive only got Mr Ls recollection  of events and the documentary  
evidence to go on. And similarly its unreasonable to expect anyone  can accurately recall  
precise details of the discussions at Ts premises after this length  of time. 
Ive no doubt that Mr L intended to enter the type of agreement which  allowed  him to return  
the vehicle early and I expect that this - amongst a number of options  - was probably 
discussed. I cant say what  was verbally  agreed either prior to Mr L attending Ts premises or 
at that time. I can only infer that T believed hed agreed to take a fixed sum loan as that was 
the paperwork it produced for his signature. It seems to me the most probable explanation is 
that Mr L signed the agreement and accompanying documentation on the assumption that it 
was similar  to previous agreements hed had. And that he probably didnt read it through.  If 
he had, I think he would  - or reasonably ought to - have noticed it was headed Fixed Sum 
Loan Agreement. The same information was also stated in the pre-contract credit 
information document. And the Explanation Document commences with a question:
Is a fixed sum loan agreement suitable  for you?
I understand it can be tedious to read through a large amount of paperwork - particularly if 
one already thinks the contents are known.  But not reading an agreement before signing is 
not a good reason for avoiding the obligations  it contains. Given the documentation provided  
to Mr L and the fact that it repeated that it related to a fixed  sum loan agreement,  I dont think  
a misrepresentation  occurred. So I dont  think Santander was acting unfairly when it rejected 
Mr Ls complaint.
I understand that Santander did eventually allow Mr L to terminate the agreement early  but I 
assume that was a gesture of goodwill as the agreement was nearing its end. And Im aware 
that more recently  Mr L has indicated  that a further  issue has arisen  over the way in which 
the agreement  was terminated. Hes told us that in December 2019 he noticed that his credit 
file showed the agreement as still being  current. It seems one monthly payment wasnt  
collected and he says Santander indicated  it wouldnt take steps to do so until this complaint 
was settled. Mr L confirms hes since paid the balance to avoid any risk of an adverse entry 
on his credit file.
Ive only mentioned this latter detail out of courtesy to Mr L, as he brought it to our attention. 
Its only arisen recently and so couldnt  have formed part of the original complaint. So Im 
unable to make any formal findings  in relation to this aspect. If Mr L wishes  to take it further 
hell need to make a new complaint to Santander.
Ref: DRN46085353I know my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr L but Im not upholding this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4608535