K820x#14Complaint
Mrs G and Mr G complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC hasnt  provided bank statements going 
back to 1998.  
Background
In 2018 Mrs Gs representatives contacted Lloyds and asked for bank statements going  back  
to 1998. They wanted to look into where  funds totalling around £100,000 had gone. Mrs G is 
suffering with some serious health problems  that mean she doesnt recall what happened to 
the money. The account in question was held in joint names with Mr G. 
Lloyds wasnt able to provide bank  statements going back to 1998 but did send copies of 
statements from August 2001  onwards to Mrs Gs representatives. But those statements 
didnt show what happened to the missing  funds and a complaint was raised. 
Lloyds responded on 2 October 2018  but didnt agree  an error had been made. Lloyds said 
its only required to keep  information for a six year period and that it no longer had bank 
statements going back to 1998. 
Mrs Gs representatives referred the complaint to our service and Mr G was later added  to 
the case in his capacity as joint account holder. An investigator reviewed the complaint  and 
said our service couldnt look at some  of the issues raised because of the length  of time that 
had passed. Mrs Gs representatives asked to appeal and the case was passed to me. 
On 9 January  2019 I issued a decision setting out the parts  of Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint 
that this service could  deal with. My decision explained that we could only look at the merits 
of their complaint  concerning the availability of bank statements  going  back  to 1998.
Im now issuing my final decision concerning Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint about  the 
availability of bank  statements Lloyds has on file. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Gs representatives have asked  for bank  statements going  back  to 1998  so they can get 
a better  understanding of where  funds that should  be available  have gone.  But Lloyds is only 
able to go back to August  2001 and has sent Mrs Gs representatives those  statements. I 
completely understand why Mrs Gs representatives want more  statements and details of her 
accounts. But businesses  dont have to keep  information  indefinitely. 
In this case, Lloyds  says its only obliged to retain statements going back six years.  But 
Lloyds' systems actually  retained statements for this joint account going back  considerably  
further, to August 2001. I know Mrs Gs representatives feel Lloyds should have the ability  to 
look back further, but Im satisfied it doesnt.  If Lloyds had statements going  all the way to 
1998 I think it would have sent them. 
Lloyds is correct when  it says it doesnt have  to retain information about customers 
indefinitely. Whilst I understand why the statements have been  requested,  I havent  found 
Ref: DRN40434172anything to show Lloyds  has made  a mistake  or acted unfairly when it responded to say it 
could only go back to August 2001. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs G and Mrs G but Im satisfied  Lloyds isnt obliged to retain  
information or statements indefinitely and that its sent copies of statements going back  as 
far as possible. I appreciate that means its not possible  to see what  happened within the 
account before August 2001  but Im satisfied Lloyds has sent out as much  information as it 
holds and that it dealt with Mrs G and Mrs Gs complaint fairly. As a result,  Im not telling 
Lloyds to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Gs 
representatives and Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2020.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4043417