K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that BUPA Insurance Limited declined a claim against  their private  
medical insurance  policy. Their son, Mr B1, is helping them to bring their complaint.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 9 January 2020, 
an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.  So, I wont  repeat that 
information here. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I didnt  think that BUPAs actions caused Mr B to 
miss out on rehabilitation under the policy. I also said that I didnt think  BUPA  had acted 
unfairly in refusing to exercise its discretion  in Mr Bs favour,  as he didnt meet the conditions  
in the policy  terms  and conditions.  
responses to my provisional  decision
BUPA didnt  respond to my provisional decision.  Mr B1 said:  
He was disappointed that Id found in BUPAs favour on a technicality.
Mr B had international BUPA cover for decades and only removed international cover 
recently, by which time hed started to act irrationally.
He made a mistake,  as when  BUPA said, incorrectly, that Mr Bs claim wasnt  covered 
because of the TIA, he didnt think that its position would  be different for rehabilitation. 
He would  have  enquired  earlier  if BUPA had been more forthcoming.
They are paying for the BUPA policy and for all nursing and other  costs.  They  are not 
sure what is and isnt covered by the policy.
Mr B paid for the policy for decades then had the misfortune  of falling ill whilst abroad 
after making an irrational decision to alter the policy by removing international cover.  
His life savings  are being  wiped out by the costs of his care.
He would have expected BUPA  not to mislead  them in the first instance and, after 
admitting its error, to make good.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In dealing with the complaint, Im looking at the policy  that was in force  at the relevant time. 
The policy didnt provide international cover. I note what Mr B1 says about the timing of and 
circumstances surrounding  Mr Bs cancellation  of earlier cover  but that doesnt change  my 
view about what BUPA did in relation to the policy that was in force  at the relevant time. 
Ref: DRN40422212For the reasons  I set out in my provisional  decision,  I dont  think that BUPAs initial error 
altered the outcome here.  Even  if I reached  a different conclusion about  that, the policy only 
provided cover for rehabilitation  in certain, defined  circumstances for 21 consecutive days. 
I understand that Mr Bs rehabilitation and other needs continue  well beyond that limit.  
For the reasons  Ive explained, BUPA wasnt obliged to exercise its discretion in Mr Bs 
favour in relation to rehabilitation in this case.
I cant advise Mr and Mrs B generally about what their policy covers. If they think they have 
another claim against the policy, they should contact BUPA  in the first instance.  
Ive noted all that Mr B1 says and I appreciate how difficult  this matter has been but I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  So, for the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think that BUPA acted unfairly in refusing to exercise its 
discretion in Mr Bs favour in this case.   
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs B and their family but for the reasons set out above and in 
my provisional decision, I dont uphold their complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN40422213extract of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that BUPA Insurance Limited declined a claim against  their 
private  medical insurance policy. Their  son, Mr B1 is helping them  to bring their 
complaint.
background
In July 2018, Mr B suffered a stroke  whilst on holiday abroad. He received intensive care 
then rehabilitation overseas. On 26 July 2018,  a family member called BUPA on Mr Bs 
behalf. BUPA said that the policy doesnt cover  treatment outside the UK but to call when  
Mr B is back in the UK.
On 30 July 2018, a representative from the overseas hospital called BUPA and asked if 
Mr B had cover overseas. BUPA said that the policy only covered treatment  in the UK.
On 3 September 2018, Mr B1 asked BUPA if it would cover Mr Bs rehabilitation in the 
UK. At that time, Mr B was having rehabilitation abroad. BUPA told Mr B1 that the 
policy doesnt  cover  rehabilitation.
On 7 September 2018, a BUPA recognised UK hospital made enquires to establish 
whether  Mr Bs policy covered rehabilitation. BUPA said it was unlikely to be covered  
because of the time that had elapsed  since Mr B first received in-patient care.
On 24 September,  Mr B1 asked BUPA to cover rehabilitation in the UK. In October 2018,  
BUPA declined the claim and relied  on a special condition, which said that Mr B wasnt  
covered for any treatment related to transient ischaemic attack  (TIA). Mr B1 provided 
further  medical information.
On 1 November  2018, BUPA  reviewed  its decision and said that Mr Bs stroke  wasnt 
related  to the TIA but it refused the claim. It relied on a provision in the policy  which 
says that the rehabilitation  must start within 42 days from the date Mr B first received
in-patient treatment.
Mr B retuned to the UK in late November 2018.  He had rehabilitation in a UK hospital 
and returned to his home in January 2019.
Mr and Mrs B say that BUPA tried to find reasons to avoid meeting  its obligations.  They 
say that if BUPA hadnt initially refused  the claim based on the exclusion relating to the 
TIA, Mr B would have returned to the UK within the 42 day period. Mr and Mrs B say 
that they are bitterly  disappointed that BUPA is trying to resist its responsibility to them 
during a traumatic  time. They want BUPA to meet its obligations under  the policy.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think  that BUPA 
acted  incorrectly in declining  Mr Bs claim. That was because the policy states that 
rehabilitation  needs to start in the UK within 42 days of first receiving in-patient 
treatment. So he didnt  think that BUPA should do anything further.
Ref: DRN40422214Mr B1 responded  on Mr and Mrs Bs behalf. He said that the crux of the complaint was 
that BUPA misled them in initially refusing the claim on the basis that Mr Bs stroke  was 
connected  to his earlier TIA. Mr B1 said that they were unable to entertain  bringing Mr B 
back  to the UK because of the financial cost of treatment in the UK. By the time theyd  
refute d BUPAs claim about Mr Bs stoke  being connected to the TIA, the 42 day claim  
period  for rehabilitation care had expired  and BUPA  then relied on that exclusion to 
refuse  the claim. Mr B1 says that BUPA "ran down the clock" with the argument  that the 
stroke was related to Mr Bs earlier TIA then relied  on the claim period having expired. 
Mr B1 says that BUPAs reliance on a procedural technicality is a gross injustice.
The investigator said that whilst  BUPA may have  initially said that Mr Bs stroke was 
linked  to a previous condition,  there wasnt enough evidence to say that was the reason 
the 42 day time limit expired. He said that Mr B1s initial  query about rehabilitation in the 
UK wasnt  made  until the 42 day time limit was about the expired.
Mr B1 said that when  BUPA first said that Mr Bs care wasnt  covered under the policy 
they took that at face value. He says that he accepts that Mr B is fully responsible for 
the treatment abroad but that they would have expedited Mr Bs return to the UK if 
BUPA had told them  that it would  cover costs.
The investigator said that Mr B1 first asked BUPA about  rehabilitation near the end of 
the 42 day time limit when Mr B was still abroad. He didnt think that BUPAs initial,  
incorrect  reliance  on Mr Bs pre existing condition was the reason the 42 day time limit 
elapsed.
As there  was no agreement between the parties,  the complaint was passed to 
me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about  what happened  to Mr B and his family.  Im conscious that 
Ive condensed what I dont doubt was and still is a very worrying time into a short  
narrative. That reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal.  But Im 
satisfied that Ive captured  the essence  of what happened.
the relevant  policy  terms and conditions
The starting  point is the policy terms and conditions  which  say as follows:
"Eligible treatment. benefits and limitations
[. ..]
6. All Treatment must be carried out in a Recognised  Facility in the UK and provided by 
a Consultant medical practitioner or healthcare professional who is recognised by us on 
the date you received Treatment unless we specifically authorise  otherwise in a 
particular  case...
Ref: DRN40422215"Discretion GD2 Rehabilitation
We may pay for Eligible  Treatment for rehabilitation up to a maximum of 21 consecutive  
days  to restore health or mobility or to allow you to live an independent  life eg after a 
stroke.  The rehabilitation must:
be an integral part of In-patient  Treatment and take place in a Recognised Facility
start within forty-two days from and including the date you first receive that In-patient  
Treatment.
You must  have our agreement before the rehabilitation starts and we need full details  
from your Consultant before we can give our decision."
has the claim  been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance  say that BUPA  has a responsibility  to 
handle  claims promptly and fairly  and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I dont  think that BUPA treated  Mr B unfairly  in refusing to exercise its discretion in his 
favour  in this case. Ill explain why:
Mr and Mrs B rightly acknowledge that their policy doesnt cover treatment outside 
the UK. The claim Im looking at is for rehabilitation treatment in the UK.
In Mr Bs case,  in order for BUPA to consider exercising its discretion in his favour, 
hed have to start rehabilitation in a recognised UK facility that was integral to UK in-
patient treatment  within 42 days of his eligible in-patient treatment starting.
Ive seen conflicting information about  the date Mr B suffered a stroke: Mr B1 refers to 28 
July 2018 but the medical report  dated 28 July 2018 says that Mr B was transferred to a 
hospital abroad on 26 July 2018.  In the absence of any further  information,  I rely on the 
medical report, as that was prepared at the time Mr B was taken ill. So, I proceed on the 
basis that Mr B had a stroke and first received in-patient treatment on 26 July 2018, at a 
facility which was outside the UK.
The policy provides that BUPA may pay for rehabilitation  in a recognised facility that 
follows on from and is integral to in-patient treatment and starts  within  42 days  six 
weeks- from the date of first receiving "that" in-patient treatment.  As Mr B didnt 
receive eligible in-patient treatment in the UK, he never  received "that  eligible in-
patient treatment  referred  to in the policy terms.
Mr B1 first asked  BUPA about cover for rehabilitation  on 3 September 2018. BUPA 
told Mr B1 that the policy  didnt cover rehabilitation.  That wasnt  correct but I dont 
think that alters the outcome here, as Im not persuaded that Mr B could have been  
eligible for this benefit in the circumstances of this case.
Ref: DRN40422216Ive looked at what I think would likely have happened if BUPA  had given Mr B1 correct  
information on 3 September 2018  and told him that it had a discretion  in relation to 
rehabilitation in specific  circumstances. Based on what  Ive seen, I think  that, at that 
point, Mr B was beyond the treatment phase of his recovery and was in the 
rehabilitation phase. So, even if hed returned  to the UK straight away,  there wouldnt 
have been any UK in-patient treatment from which rehabilitation  would have flowed.
Even if BUPA accepted the in-patient treatment overseas as the starting point - which  
it appeared to do in its final response  to Mr B1 - I think  its unlikely that if Mr B has 
received correct information on 3 September 2018, by 6 September 2018,  Mr B would  
have been repatriated to the UK, admitted to a BUPA  recognised hospital and started 
a rehabilitation plan integral to the treatment hed already  had. I havent seen anything  
to show that Mr B was fit to fly at that point but, that aside,  the time frame  is simply too 
tight.
I dont think that BUPAs initial reliance  on the special condition  relating to the TIA 
affected the outcome here.  If BUPA  accepted the overseas in-patient treatment as the 
starting point, by the time BUPA  incorrectly rejected  the claim because of the TIA, the 
time limit for starting  integrated rehabilitation had passed.
I dont think that BUPAs actions  caused Mr B to miss out on rehabilitation under the 
policy and I dont  think that BUPA acted unfairly in refusing to exercise its discretion in 
Mr Bs favour, as he didnt  meet the conditions it set out in the policy  terms and 
conditions.
my provisional  decision
I appreciate that this matter continues to be extremely frustrating and worrying  for Mr B and 
his family  but for the reasons Ive explained,  I dont think that BUPA  acted unfairly, so I dont 
propose to uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN4042221