K822xcomplaint
Ms M is unhappy with the decision of Allianz  Insurance Plc to refuse  to pay her claim for
water damage to her property.
background 
Ms M lives in a ground floor apartment  with a bedroom in a basement.  Shes  a teacher and
during the school Summer holidays she went away twice with a weeks  gap between. After
the second absence,  of a week, she returned  to find that the carpet in her basement
bedroom was wet. She contacted Allianz to report the issue  and was promised a call back.
But she had to call again three days later and at that point Allianz recorded the claim and
said that someone would be sent to assess the damage.
It was around three weeks from the first contact  before a loss adjuster attended for Allianz.
Ms M was working so her father was at the property to allow  access. After two visits a report
was completed.  No leaks had been found within the property but it was suggested that
further investigation was necessary of drains and external pipes.
But before any further  investigative  work was carried out Allianz declined the claim. It said
that Ms Ms father had told its loss adjuster that Ms M had been on a six week holiday.
Allianz said this meant that an exclusion applied as the property had been vacant for more
than 30 days.
Ms M realised that there had been a misunderstanding with her father who had been
referring to the six week school term holiday.  She provided proof to Allianz that shed been
at the property between her times  away. She explained that shed only been away  for a
week before  the damage was discovered.
While it seems that Allianz accepted her proof it continued to decline the claim.  It argued that
there was no leak identified so there was no insured event.  It said that the damage  had
occurred over a long period and now cited a further  exclusion  for damage caused gradually;
9. Wear and tear
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind caused  by or resulting from
wear and tear, depreciation, corrosion, rusting,  damp, insects, vermin, fungus,
condensation, fading, frost or anything that happens gradually, the process of
cleaning, dyeing,  repair, alteration,  renovation, restoration  or any consequential  loss.
Ms M was unhappy with that outcome and complained  to Allianz but it continued to decline
her claim. It seems  that Allianz  decided  that the damage to the property was so severe that it
had to have been occurring over a long period of time. It cited visible dampness to walls,
discolouration of skirting  boards and damage to floor-standing furniture through  water
penetration. While  the cause wasnt  stated  it appears that in the absence  of a traceable  leak
Allianz decided  that the damage was caused  by damp penetration over a lengthy
period.
Ms M contacted the local water authority. It was identified  that some  recent  work  to another
property in the block had likely led to water being released into her property from a 
previously unused water supply pipe outside  the apartment at ground level. Its not entirely 
clear whether there  had been  a leak or an accidental release of water during the work. But 
ultimately the water supply that was thought to be the cause was isolated  and cut off to
Ref: DRN47495902prevent further  problems.
Ms M instructed a company to repair the damage which included substantial repairs  to
flooring and walls as had been  identified as necessary by the report of Allianz loss adjuster.
Ms M also replaced furniture  and compiled a list of damaged items  which  she sought to
claim for.
When she complained  to this service  our adjudicator concluded  that the claim should be paid
by Allianz. He felt it was likely that the damage had been caused by an escape  of water
which was covered by the policy. He didnt accept Allianz  argument  that the policy didnt
cover the damage  or that it was properly excluded under the wear and tear clause. As well
as requiring  payment for much of the claimed loss he also suggested an award  of £250
compensation for trouble  and upset caused  by Allianz poor handling of the claim.
Allianz didnt accept that conclusion and required the dispute  pass  to an ombudsman for a
final decision. It maintained that the claim shouldnt  be paid. It also argued that at least some
of the work undertaken by Ms Ms contractors was to improve the property rather than to
repair damage.
I issued a provisional decision in which I largely agreed with the initial view but felt that it was 
appropriate to increase  the compensation awarded as well as explain more  clearly some of 
the factors that I felt were  important.
I said;
Provisional findings:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My provisional decision it to uphold  this
complaint. But Im issuing  this provisional decision because the detail of my award differs
from that suggested by the adjudicator. I intend  to increase the compensation award  for
trouble and upset  and be more specific about  aspects of the claim payment.
I will be clear from the start that I believe  that Allianz  has handled this claim poorly. While
there was clearly confusion initially about  Ms Ms potential  absence from the property I
believe that Allianz jumped too quickly to the conclusion that the property had been vacant
without seeking  sufficient clarification. The exclusion relied  upon  is intended to limit liability
for properties that are unoccupied. Where someone is thought to have been temporarily 
away from the property  for more  than the 30 days,  used to define unoccupied, I expect the
insurer to make enquiries about  the full circumstances and whether anyone has been
supervising the property  during that time.  It appears that in this case Allianz acted too quickly
on poor information.
But it seems  from the case handling notes that even when the mistake was explained Allianz
wanted to maintain its position. It seems that based  on fairly generic evidence that the
damage was extensive, Allianz doubted  the contention that Ms M had been at the property
as claimed and felt that if she had been  then she would have noticed the damage earlier. It
seems that when evidence was irrefutable that she had been in the property  when shed
said, including a receipt for a take away delivery,  the decision was taken to maintain the view
that the damage must  have  predated when  she notified Allianz. As a result, it would seem
that Allianz took the view that this must  be damp that Ms M had lived with knowingly for
some time before reporting.
Ref: DRN47495903If that were the case then it could be argued that the wear and tear exclusion could apply.
While the exclusion wording is extremely wide ranging, the principle is that the insurer
shouldnt have to pay for damage which the policy holder  has allowed to occur, such  as
disrepair, or which  happens  naturally through the passage of time.
Its clear to me that having taken an early  position that the claim should  be declined  Allianz
sought to maintain that position  based on evidence that was inconclusive. In fact, its own
loss adjuster had suggested further investigation  was needed to external drains and
pipework and its apparent that they were  right to do so. Allianz  chose not to follow that
course and maintained its stance that the claim shouldnt be paid as there  hadnt  been an
insured event.
But the evidence  is that there had been  and that was provided  by the water authority who
identified and isolated the external pipes. They also identified another possible source of
water getting  into the building  which it described as a trap outside  leading to an open pipe
inside. To be clear,  Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities that either or both of these
were the source  of the water damage.
Allianz reliance on the evidence  of long term water damage was a mistake.  Their  contractor
didnt visit the property until three weeks  after notification of the problem. Ms M had been
away from the property  for a week prior to identifying the problem on her return.  That means
that at least four weeks could have passed  before  the inspection was carried out. It may be
the case that, in the absence of a visible  leak, the extent of damage from what Allianz
perhaps assumed  was some form of rising  damp,  was such  that it must have been occurring
for a long period of time.  Effectively by taking that position Allianz suggest that Ms M was
aware of the problem  but failed to report it.
But there was a leak. And its possible that the water released into the property  was
substantial. One of the theories was that an open  water supply had been wrongly turned on
during work on another property which could have released a full flow of water into the area
of the basement.
On the basis of all of the evidence now available Im satisfied that the work to another
property, which included  new water  supply pipes, led directly or indirectly  to the release of
water that damaged  Ms Ms basement.  That problem was fixed by the water company
shortly after Allianz declined the claim  in its final response letter.  Its not clear whether  Ms M
provided the proof of that work to Allianz but she notified them  that she was having repair 
work carried out and held them responsible for it. In any event, I do know that despite the
evidence being  available, and explained in the adjudicators view, Allianz continued  to refuse
the claim and argue  that the loss wasnt covered by the policy.
Its my view that it was. I dont believe that Ms M was aware  of the problem or delayed in
notifying Allianz once she discovered  it. And even  if the water had penetrated prior to her
leaving the property  for her second  holiday,  this service wouldnt consider  her to be
responsible for any gradual damage that occurred before  reporting  it unless it was satisfied
that the damage would  have been visible  and apparent before she left. Theres no evidence
to suggest that was the case. I think that the visible damage that the loss adjuster identified
was likely to be the result of the passage of time since the claim was reported.
My conclusion is that the claim  is payable under the provision within  the policy for loss
arising as a result of;
Ref: DRN474959045a. Water  escaping from water tanks,  pipes, equipment or fixed water systems.
The issue  remaining for me to consider is the amount which  Allianz should be required to
pay.
Ms M has provided  receipts and evidence of work  carried  out by her chosen contractor
costing around £10,000.  Allianz  has commented  that the work includes installation  of a
cavity drainage system  which  it says isnt consistent  with a repair of a one off escape of
water. I agree with that. But it is also the case that whenever a claim includes responsibility
to repair, which by definition I have concluded does in this case, this service requires the
insurer to complete a lasting repair.  That sometimes by necessity includes what  insurers
argue is betterment. That is, something  being done  that is intended to prevent future
problems but which goes beyond simply repairing the existing damage.
Its not possible for me to tell whether that might be the case  here.  But Im not intending  at
this stage to rule out that Allianz is liable for these extra costs. If Ms M is able to provide
professional evidence that the work to install a cavity drainage system was essential  to allow
for a lasting repair, and/or would have been required had Allianz organised  the repairs
themselves, then I will consider that before issuing my final decision.
Ultimately my provisional decision is that Allianz should repay to Ms M the full costs she
incurred associated with finding the source  of the leak, repairing it, and providing a lasting
repair of the property. While the policy includes trace and access  within  the property, which
was undertaken  by Allianz contractor, if Ms M had to pay for trace  and access  costs outside
of the property then Allianz should repay those also, as they were necessary to identify and
substantiate a valid claim.
In relation to damage to contents,  Allianz  should  pay for replacement  of the items claimed
for, on the provision of proof of purchase and appropriate evidence of damage  and or
disposal of the items  claimed for. Any items not yet replaced, but for which Ms M seeks  to
claim, are subject to the usual process of consideration. All claims are subject to the full
terms of the policy.
Finally, I believe that a higher award  of compensation  for trouble and upset is appropriate.
Ive made  it clear that I believe that Allianz  have handled this claim poorly  and it has
continued to argue against the claim throughout the handling by this service.  I think that has
been unreasonable in light of the evidence  Ive seen and has further delayed a resolution  
and added to Ms Ms inconvenience and stress. Ive taken account of the claim being
declined throughout for what I believe were mistaken reasons that could have been avoided.
That includes the fact that it took three  weeks to view the damage and it appears likely that
this delay itself led to later problems with Ms Ms claim. And for the trouble Ms M has been
put to in organising and financing the whole of the repairs herself  without the assistance that
she was entitled  to from her insurer.
In all of the circumstances I believe that £400  is appropriate compensation in this case.
Ms M accepted the decision.  After  allowing extra time to consider its position Allianz has also 
agreed with the outcome.
Ref: DRN47495905my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  agreed, my provisional decision stands.
my final decision
My decision  is to uphold  this complaint.
I require Allianz Insurance Plc to settle  the claim on the basis  that the damage  was caused 
by an insured event  as described. Ms M should  be reimbursed for the full costs incurred in 
repairing the property  to the extent  that repairs would have been necessary had Allianz 
accepted the claim. For practical  purposes  I require Allianz to meet the full costs paid by Ms 
M for the repairs unless  it is able to demonstrate with independent evidence  that aspects of 
the work  done  were not covered by the policy.
Contents claims should be met in full on production of reasonable proof of damage, disposal
or replacement purchase.
Any other incidental  costs related to the claim should be considered in line with normal claim
protocols.
For all costs incurred for valid claims the actual  cost should be reimbursed irrespective of
policy terms about cash payments, save for any excess or policy limits.
Interest is payable on any costs  incurred from date of expenditure by Ms M to date of
repayment by Allianz  at the rate of 8% simple per annum.
Allianz should also pay compensation for trouble  and upset of £400.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
John Withington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4749590