K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Leek  United  Building  Society mis-sold Mrs and Mr F payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out to cover a mortgage.
The evidence shows that the mortgage started in 1989 and the PPI in 1995.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr F disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why:
I think Leek made  Mrs and Mr F aware  that the PPI was optional, but that they 
still chose to take it. The mortgage started  about  six years  before the PPI started 
so it was clear the success  of the mortgage  application didnt depend on taking 
PPI. 
Leek didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs and Mr F, as being particularly suited to 
their individual needs. This means it didnt have  to check if the PPI fitted  their 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mrs and Mr F to decide  whether it was 
suitable. But even  if it had made  a recommendation, I think  it would probably 
have been an appropriate one in their circumstances at the time. Not being able 
to pay a mortgage can cause significant difficulties, and the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to any employer sickness and redundancy benefits, and possibly 
for longer.  So it would have been potentially useful. 
Its hard to know how well Leek explained the cost of the policy.  But I dont 
anyway think full and clear information  about  the costs  would have  affected  
whether Mrs and Mr F took the PPI.
Its possible Leek didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mrs and Mr F would have  been  affected by any of these.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN48106042Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr F 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4810604