K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Virgin Money  plc failed  to warn him that it was charging him interest 
after he exceeded his credit limit. 
background
Mr H had a credit card with Virgin on a promotional 0% rate. He went  over his credit  limit, but 
he didnt realise  this until he got a letter from Virgin (that had been sent automatically) dated 
19 February telling him that he had. When he got the letter,  Mr H paid in some  money  to 
bring the account back within the limit. 
As a result of going over his credit limit, Virgin withdrew Mr Hs promotional  rate, although 
the letter didnt  tell him this.
 
In fact, Virgin had sent Mr H an email on 18 February to say that he was at 95% of his credit  
limit. 
On 5 March, Virgin sent Mr H another notification to say that he had been charged £9 for 
going over the limit.  Virgin  also charged  him interest. Once Mr H found this out, he paid the 
balance in full. 
Mr H complained to Virgin  about  this. He said it shouldnt have allowed the transaction  to go 
through if it put him over the limit. Also,  although  he understood that Virgin  was entitled to 
withdraw the promotional rate, he didnt think it was fair that he had to pay interest over the 
period where  he didnt  know  he was being charged interest.
Virgin said that it was Mr Hs job to make sure that he monitored his spending to keep within 
his credit limit. They explained that they will sometimes  allow  purchases to go through, even 
though this puts someone over the limit, to prevent  embarrassment to customers. They  did 
accept that the email  of 18 February  was badly timed and paid Mr H £25 in compensation to 
say sorry. Mr H accepted the £25 for this issue but he wasnt satisfied with Virgins  response 
to his complaint  about the interest  charged  and the over limit fee. 
He maintained the letter of 19 February had misled him by saying that he had to pay money  
to reduce his balance,  but not saying that he would  now be charged interest. The complaint 
has now come to me for decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. I realise  Mr H will be disappointed by my decision so I shall explain why. 
-Mr H has queried why Virgin  allowed the transaction that took him over his credit limit 
to go through.  Virgin has said it was to avoid embarrassment. Ive thought about this 
and given the circumstances, I dont think this was unreasonable.   Also, Mr H 
wouldve been aware of his credit  limit from his monthly statements so I think he 
ought to have known where he was in terms of his spending on his account before 
using the card.  So I dont hold Virgin at fault for what happened here.  
Ref: DRN40410882-Its accepted Virgin  were entitled to withdraw the 0% promotional rate, so what I have 
to decide here is whether its fair and reasonable for Mr H to have to pay the interest 
he was charged and the £9 fee bearing in mind what happened.
-Ive read Virgins letter  of 19 February  notifying Mr H that hed exceeded his credit  
limit. I understand his point that this letter should have also notified  him that it was 
now charging him interest because the promotional rate had been withdrawn.  But 
Ive got to consider all the circumstances of this case and not just the letter in 
isolation. The letter  in question was a standard letter. It served a particular purpose. It 
was intended  to tell Mr H that hed gone  over his limit and what  he needed to do to 
bring his account  back in order.   Ive not seen  anything to suggest  that Virgin was 
under an obligation  to do anything more within the letter  - Ill say more about  this later 
on in my decision. 
-I think its worth pointing out that not everyone  that exceeds  their credit limit would be 
on a promotional rate where the rate would be removed and interest charged.  So I 
think this reinforces  the point that the letter was a standard letter  only intended  to 
warn that the limit had been exceeded.      
-With regards to the interest  charged and fees,  the position  on this is set out clearly in 
the terms and conditions. And  Mr  H was reminded  of this in his monthly statements. 
These said, If  you go over your credit limit, we will withdraw the promotional  rate 
with effect from the start of that statement period. When  a promotional  rate on your 
account is withdrawn,  we charge the current standard interest rate that applies .  
The statements also say that a  fee  of £9 will apply. Taking all of these things 
together, I think Virgin did enough to tell Mr H in what circumstances it would start to 
charge interest  and apply charges. So I dont think it needed  to do more.  
-I appreciate Mr H might not have  remembered the terms and conditions but this 
doesnt change  the fact that the information  was available. Once he got the 19 
February letter I think he could have called Virgin to clarify the position with the 
interest on his account or checked  the terms and conditions on how that impacted his 
promotional rate and any charges. Also, looking at the letter I dont think  that it 
implied that if the account was brought back within its limit that there wouldnt be any 
additional charges. 
For these reasons, I dont  think  that Virgin have done anything wrong here. So I wont be 
asking it to do anymore.  
Ref: DRN40410883my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Daniel Bunting
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4041088