K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC would only send him a contactless  credit 
card as a replacement when his existing  card expired. 
background
Mr R has a Tesco credit  card that was due to expire in March  2019. When Tesco sent a 
replacement out it was a contactless card. Mr R told Tesco  he wanted a credit card without 
the contactless function but it said that type of card was no longer available. 
Mr R complained and Tesco  responded on 20 February 2019.  Tesco  said it no longer 
offered an alternative  to contactless cards and that its security  processes had been designed 
to check whether transactions are genuine.  
Mr R asked our service  to look at his complaint and it was passed to an adjudicator. The 
adjudicator didnt think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld and said Tesco was free to decide 
how it operates and whether or not to offer an alternative  to the contactless credit card. Mr R 
didnt accept and asked to appeal so his complaints been passed to me to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr R is concerned that the contactless facility on a credit card could lead to 
higher day to day spending.  But its up to Tesco to decide how it operates and what facilities  
to offer card holders.  In this case, Tesco has confirmed its taken a commercial decision to 
offer contactless credit  cards to its customers and it doesnt provide  an alternative. Thats  a 
decision Tesco is entitled to make.  
In his response to the adjudicator Mr Rs asked  about our remit and whether he can refer his 
concerns to the Financial Conduct  Authority.  Hes also asked whether we can interfere with 
a business commercial decision if its to the detriment of the consumer. 
The Financial Conduct Authority is the industry regulator and sets the rules  businesses 
operate under. Were an informal dispute resolution  service.  Our rules are also set by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. Whilst we can look at whether a business has followed the 
industry regulations  and if its treated  its customers  fairly we cant  generally tell it to change 
the way it operates. 
If we think a business decision  is to the detriment of its customer  we can tell it to take action  
to resolve a complaint. But Im not persuaded that introducing the contactless facility is to 
Mr Rs detriment. I understand Mr R has concerns over the new card, but he isnt obliged  to 
use the contactless facility and can continue  to use the chip and pin option to pay. 
Mr Rs explained that because of Tescos decision he no longer has a credit  card.  I 
understand hes unwilling to use the contactless  replacement credit card Tesco sent and has 
destroyed it. But Mr R has to ultimately decide  whether the service  Tesco  offers its credit 
card customers is right for him. 
Ref: DRN46662272Whilst I understand Mr Rs concerns, I havent found Tesco treated him unfairly by deciding 
to only offer contactless  credit cards. As a result, Im not telling Tesco to take any further 
action to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4666227