K820x#14complaint
Mr Ks unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited  declined a claim on his motor  insurance 
policy.
background
On 10 December 2018 Mr Ks home was burgled. He reported it to the police immediately 
and was told a forensic  team would investigate  the house the next morning. Mr K couldnt go 
back into his home.  He says he wasnt in a state  to drive the car and he left it in the driveway 
behind a locked  gate with some lights on in the house to give the appearance someone  was 
in. But the thieves returned later that night and stole the car. He then contacted Ageas and 
made a claim on his motor insurance  policy. Mr K is unhappy that Ageas quickly declined his 
claim as he hadnt told it of the burglary and had failed to follow  the polices advice to 
safeguard his car. He says he took all reasonable steps in relation to his stolen car and he 
wants Ageas  to deal with his claim.
Ageas said in its final response  that Mr K had said he wasnt aware  the car was at risk 
following the burglary  because he didnt know where his spare key was. But the police say 
they spoke to Mr K at length about  the options  available. They left Mr K to secure the 
property and advised blocking his car in with another vehicle to ensure it wasnt  taken 
overnight. This contradicts  Mr Ks version of events and shows  he was fully aware that his 
car was at risk when  he left the property. He didnt follow the polices advice  or move it to a 
safer location. If he had called Ageas it wouldve collected the car so the locks could be 
changed. It cant provide  indemnity for his claim.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  In summary she said:
Mr K is an innocent  victim of a crime. But what she must look at are the terms and 
conditions of the policy and what information  Ageas had when declining  the claim to 
see if it reached its decision in a fair and reasonable manner.  Mr Ks policy says he 
has a duty to protect his vehicle from loss or damage at all times. And Ageas says in 
this case he didnt.
The police were  called following  the burglary. They say they spoke at length  to Mr K 
and offered different advice. This included advising him to block  his car in with 
another vehicle  to ensure it wasnt taken  overnight. Mr K says this wasnt practicable, 
he was shaken  up and wasnt sure where all his car keys were.  He says the police 
assured him the thieves wouldnt return that night.
Even so Mr K would reasonably have been  aware there was a risk to his car whether  
or not he knew the keys had been stolen. This is supported by the fact the police 
suggested blocking his car in with another one. But he didnt  do so. He also didnt 
contact Ageas to advise it of the potential  loss of his keys. 
Although sympathetic  to Mr Ks situation she thinks Ageas has appropriately declined 
Mr Ks claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. And she will not be 
asking it to do anything more.
Mr K remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review. 
Ref: DRN47656152my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ks policy are clear.  Amongst other things the general  
conditions say he must protect your vehicle  from loss or damage at all times . And the 
replacement locks section  9 says that in certain circumstances Ageas will pay for the cost of 
replacing locks if the ignition  keys are lost or stolen.
The policy terms and conditions do not specifically say that if a persons home is burgled 
Ageas has to be notified. But where a cars keys have been lost or stolen  it does require this 
to be reported  to the police.
Mr K reported the burglary to the police  but was clearly unaware of where  all his car keys 
were. I think  he and the police likely considered the possibility of the keys being stolen. But it 
wasnt immediately apparent if they had been stolen or not because the house was turned  
upside down by the thieves and Mr K couldnt go back in to the house to check until the 
police forensic teams  had finished  their work  the next day.
Its understandable  if in the immediate aftermath  of discovering the burglary and given the 
uncertainty over any missing keys that Mr K didnt think to tell Ageas about what had 
happened. But if he had done  so it says it wouldve arranged to remove his car to 
somewhere safe and replace the locks.
Mr K is unhappy about some aspects of the polices actions and advice. But those are 
matters he should  take up with the police if he remains dissatisfied  with the way it acted or 
he was dealt with. These  issues  are neither  something Ageas can be held responsible for 
nor something I can deal with in this complaint.
Its clear from the evidence that the police told Mr K to safeguard  his car and suggested  he 
get another vehicle, possibly a neighbours one, to block his car in. Mr K says he was 
reassured by the police  that the thieves wouldnt return that night. He considered the advice  
he was given but determined it wasnt feasible  to ask his neighbours to help. Instead he 
locked his car and locked  a gate to the driveway.  He also says he wasnt in a state to drive  
the car somewhere else.
I think the fact Mr K wasnt aware  of where  all his car keys were, couldnt look for and find 
them, and had a discussion  with the police about safeguarding his car shows  that he was 
made aware  or shouldve reasonably been aware  of the risk of his car being  stolen. And that 
was the case  even if, as he suggests,  he was told by the police that the thieves wouldnt 
return that night  as that was obviously not something they could guarantee. Given  their 
recommendation to block his car in with another vehicle  if it was left at the property, Im not 
convinced that just locking it and a gate was in all the circumstances  a reasonable or 
proportionate response to keeping it safe and protecting  it from loss as required by Ageas 
policy terms and conditions. The fact it was stolen later that night rather  speaks for itself and 
shows it wasnt in the circumstances of this case kept safe as the policy  required.
Consequently, although I sympathise with the unfortunate and upsetting situation Mr K has 
found himself in, I think Ageas acted fairly by deciding on the information it had to decline to 
deal with his claim. And I dont think I can fairly now require it to do anything more  including  
dealing with Mr Ks claim as he would like.
Ref: DRN47656153Overall although  I recognise  Mr Ks frustration and strength of feeling  I dont  see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4765615