K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out online 
alongside a credit card in 2009. Mr T says Tesco  Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) mis-sold 
him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Tesco had to make  Mr T aware  that the PPI was optional  and gain his consent before 
adding it to his credit card account. Mr T said he doesnt recall agreeing to take the 
policy and he didn't need it. Tesco has sent us a copy of the screens it says Mr T would 
have seen when  he applied for his credit card and the credit  agreement he signed.
The online process  gave  Mr T equal options to take PPI or not, a credit agreement  was 
then produced which had to be returned to Tesco by Mr T. The credit  agreement had a 
separate section  for PPI that Mr T signed  separately  to agreeing  with the credit card 
account. With this in mind  I think Tesco made it clear that Mr T didnt  have to take out the 
PPI and that he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he may not 
remember this.
Mr T took out the credit card and PPI online without speaking  to a Tesco  representative, 
so I dont think Tesco recommended the policy to him. This means Tesco  didnt have to 
check if it was right for Mr T. But it did have  to make sure Mr T got the information he 
needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But I think he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Tesco  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Tesco will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because: 
When the policy was sold,  Tesco expected  to get a high level of commission  and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr T about  that. 
Because Tesco didnt tell Mr T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has basically  offered to pay back  the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN46641612Ive thought about everything Mr T has said  including what  he has told us about the sick 
pay he was entitled  to at the time.  But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Ts sick 
pay, and for longer than he would  have received full sick pay. Mr T has also said he could 
have relied upon his family for help. But their own circumstances could have changed  so I 
dont think this offer of help could be guaranteed. So I still think  he would have found the 
policy useful, and these  points dont change my decision.
 
what the business needs  to do
Tesco has to pay back to Mr T any commission  and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Tesco should  also pay back to Mr T any extra interest  Mr T paid 
because of that.
Tesco should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr T the difference  between  
what he owes and what he would have owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt  
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco  should also pay Mr T 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr T can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4664161