K822xcomplaint
Miss W has complained about the way Shawbrook Bank Limited has dealt with a claim she 
made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
background 
In December 2012 Miss W entered into an agreement with a company called My Planet 
Limited (My Planet)  for the supply  and installation of a solar panel system.  The cost of the 
system was £10,970 which was paid using a loan arranged by My Planet.  
The fixed  sum loan agreement was arranged with Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook)  to 
be repaid with interest over a 10-year term.  
Miss W says she purchased the solar panel  system as she was told the financial benefits 
provided by the system would cover the cost of the loan  making it self-funding.  The 
financial benefits provided by the system  are from energy savings and Feed-in Tariff (FIT) 
payments from selling excess energy back to the grid.
It became clear to Miss W that the system  wasnt performing  as she expected.  My Planet is 
no longer trading, but under s.75 a finance provider can be held responsible  for 
misrepresentations and breaches of contract to the same  extent  as the supplier  of goods.  
So, Miss W made a claim to Shawbrook and stopped making payments for the loan.
Initially Shawbrook said that it didnt have sufficient information to assess the claim and 
asked Miss W for further information.  As Shawbrook didnt uphold her claim, Miss W 
referred her complaint  to this Service.
One of our investigators  reviewed everything  and provided Shawbrook with further  evidence,  
and it offered to compensate Miss W in a way that would make the system self-funding.  
Shawbrook based  its calculations on the recommendations of an industry expert, but 
essentially estimated  that the likely  benefit Miss W would receive over the 10-year loan term 
would be £11,061.56.
As the calculated benefits would be less than Miss W would pay for the system with interest  
over the 10-year term, Shawbrook offered Miss W several options to put things right.   These 
offered to refund any overpayments made and restructure the loan moving forwards.
Miss W didnt accept  Shawbrooks offer.  In summary, she said:
The solar panels  hadnt been  installed long enough to provide a financial benefit  or to 
assess the performance of the system.
There have been ongoing issues with the system.  My Planet sent an engineer to 
repair the system when  it first broke,  but it stopped working again around three 
months later. 
The engineer  had said that there were issues with many  solar panel systems and a 
major component may need replacing.
Shawbrooks self-funding offer doesnt resolve  all the issues  with the system.
Ref: DRN43678722The investigator noted the system had been installed since  2012 and that some FIT 
payments had been received by Miss W  so Shawbrook should  reasonably  be able to 
calculate a self-funding offer.  She also acknowledged the system is not functioning properly 
and explained  that a separate claim would need  to be made to Shawbrook  for breach of 
contract in relation to the system warranty.
Miss W said that in principle she would be willing to accept the self-funding offer made  by 
Shawbrook, but only if she wasnt required to make payments for the loan until the separate 
breach of contract complaint  is resolved  and the solar panel  system working.
Shawbrook agreed  to arrange  for an inspection of Miss Ws system.  But as no agreement 
could be reached  the complaint has been passed  for a fresh review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
For there to be a valid s.75 claim there  must be the necessary  debtor-creditor-supplier  
relationship.  Im  satisfied  that relationship exists and Shawbrook has accepted  responsibility  
and so I wont expand  further.
I should make it clear that in this decision Im considering Miss Ws complaint that the solar 
panel system was misrepresented  to her by My Planet,  and she hasnt received the financial  
benefits she was led to expect.  
I also understand the solar panel system is not working properly and needs  to be inspected.  
But as the investigator explained to Miss W previously, it was necessary to raise  that as a 
separate issue with Shawbrook,  as it wasnt set out in the original s.75 claim for 
misrepresentation.  So, Im not considering that point in this decision, and will focus on the 
s.75 claim for misrepresentation.
Miss W said that she entered  the agreement to purchase her solar panel system on the 
basis it would generate sufficient financial benefit to cover the cost of the loan.  Having 
calculated the likely  benefits the system will provide over the loan term, Shawbrook  has 
accepted there was a misrepresentation.  
Having reviewed everything, Im satisfied the approach taken by Shawbrook  to calculate  the 
likely benefits is fair and reasonable.  It was based upon guidance from industry experts and 
shows the system will not cover the cost of the loan.  To  reflect  that, Shawbrooks offer 
provided Miss W with several options of how it could put things  right.  This included  reducing 
the loan term, reducing payment amounts, offering a refund  of overpayments,  or a 
combination of those  options.
Given the time which has passed  since  the offer was made by Shawbrook it will need to be 
updated, but using the same principles as before,  and Miss W will need to confirm which  
option she wishes to accept to resolve  matters.  Once Shawbrook has restructured the loan 
it should update Miss Ws credit file to reflect that.
I know that Miss W has said that she would be willing to accept the offer in principle, but on 
the condition,  she doesnt need to start making  loan payments  again  until any system 
Ref: DRN43678723inspection and repairs are completed  under her separate  s.75 claim for breach of contract.   
Whilst I understand Miss Ws request and empathise with her frustration, I dont think  that is 
required.
The purpose of this decision is to consider the misrepresentation made  by Sesames AR at 
the time of sale, and whats a fair and reasonable way of putting  that right.  Shawbrooks 
offer effectively makes  the system self-funding  and ensures theres no loss to Miss W 
resulting from the misrepresentation.  So, I consider it fair that Miss W chooses which of the 
options offered  she would like to resolve matters, but she will then be responsible  for 
recommencing loan payments  (at the same or reduced amount depending upon  if and how 
the loan is restructured).
I would expect Shawbrook to take forward Miss Ws separate s.75 claim relating to breach of 
contract in a timely  manner, and to deal with any fault with the system  that would be covered 
under its warranty.
I note Shawbrook also included £100  in its offer, for the trouble and upset Miss W has 
experienced through the handling of her s.75 claim.  Im satisfied that is an appropriate  
amount in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ws complaint against Shawbrook  Bank  Limited.
To put things right, Shawbrook  should update its offer to make the system self-funding  and 
provide Miss W with refreshed options  to choose from.  It should also include £100 for the 
trouble and upset  Miss W has experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2021.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4367872