K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr T says Capital One (Europe) Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Capital One has given me a copy of the signed credit card application  from the time of 
the sale. This was sent to Mr T in the post for him to complete in his own time. The 
agreement had a yes and no option for PPI. I can see Mr T selected  yes to agree to 
buy the PPI, and in my opinion both options  were equally prominent. So, on balance, I 
think Capital One made  it clear that Mr T didnt  have to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr T got the information  he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr T about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI  and was given a clear  option to say 
no to it if he hadnt  wanted it  so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover.  Based on 
what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected  by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for him 
if something  went wrong. 
Mr Ts told us he wouldve received three months  at full pay if he was too ill to work. The 
PPI policy  couldve covered him for up to 12 months  if he was too ill to work,  had an 
accident or was made redundant, so longer than his sick pay would have lasted.  So 
considering Mr Ts sick pay, and that hes also told us he had no other means of 
meeting repayments,  I think he couldve found  it useful.  I appreciate  that Mr T didnt 
need to make a claim during the life of the policy, but as with any insurance the policy 
was intended  to help if a problem did arise. And Im satisfied it could have provided a 
useful benefit  if something  had happened  that meant Mr T was unable to work due to 
sickness or lost his job. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
This means  Capital  One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr T about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mr T, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN40047512To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc does  not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Mr T any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.  
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4004751