K821x#15Complaint
Mr W has complained that Ultimate Insurance Solutions Limited (Ultimate) has unfairly 
increased the cost of his pet insurance policy.
He is also unhappy  with how some of the claims on his policy  have been  settled  and that 
Ultimate says there is an outstanding premium balance owed. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mr W took out, will continue to cover any
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is
made. And that there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
Ultimate should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mr W. It has 
accepted the information  it gave Mr W about the policy  wasnt as clear  as it should have 
been. And Ultimate  has offered to pay him £300 compensation for the trouble and upset hes 
been caused as a result of this. 
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and she thought that a fair way to resolve Mr Ws 
complaint would be to also waive the outstanding  premium balance  Mr W owes, on top of 
the offer of £300  meaning compensation for Mr W would be about  £450. 
Mr W has told us this would be acceptable, but Ultimate has not agreed to it. 
Its important to be clear that businesses  are entitled to decide how much to charge for the
insurance cover they provide, and I dont have the power  to tell a business what its
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect,  determining or telling a business  how it should
operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mr Ws policy is too high or he
should have been charged  less for the policy.
While Mr Ws premium  has seen  a significant increase, I havent seen any evidence to
suggest Ultimate has treated him differently to how it would have treated any other  
policyholder in the same position.  So I cant say Ultimate has singled him out and treated  
him unfairly  compared  to its other customers or that Ultimate needs to offer him cover  for a 
lower premium going forwards.
I understand this is disappointing for Mr W. I recognise that the situation has caused
him significant upset  and hes had to cancel his pets insurance, as its now unaffordable  
losing cover for his dogs  existing medical  conditions.
Ref: DRN47677712But the thing Ultimate did wrong  was not give Mr W the information  he needed to understand 
he could end up in the position he now finds himself in. Where  I find something has gone
wrong, Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost
out.
Mr W chose to take out pet insurance, so he wanted some type of cover  for his pet. And, as 
he chose to take out a lifetime policy, he clearly had some  interest  in the greater level of 
cover it provided. If Mr W hadnt taken a lifetime  policy, he wouldve either  had no cover at 
all, and would have had to pay for all his pets treatment himself, or a reduced level of cover,  
where he would still have found  himself  in a situation where  his pets  conditions  were no 
longer covered. So I think its likely  he would still have gone ahead with the lifetime  policy,  
even if hed known  the premium could  increase significantly in the future. 
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Mr W wasnt  so 
surprised and upset  when the cost increased significantly  instead  this would have been 
something he was expecting to happen.  
The £300  compensation  Ultimate has offered is to recognise that better information about 
the longer-term  costs of the policy could have avoided some of the trouble and upset Mr W 
has experienced by not being given clear  enough information about the potential  costs of the 
policy when he took it out. 
But having  considered the amount of increase in premium, the fact Mr W had to cancel the 
policy as it became unaffordable and he has a dog with ongoing medical  conditions  that an 
alternative policy wont cover  I dont think Ultimates offer is enough. I think the trouble and 
upset caused  to him is significant and £450 would be fair and reasonable in his 
circumstances. 
I know that Mr W also let us know  that he was unhappy with the way his claims  had been  
settled and he thought some  of the deductions made were unfair. But from what Ive seen I 
think that Ultimate has applied these deductions in line with Mr Ws policy  terms. 
I can see Mr W cancelled  his direct debit after receiving his renewal quote in 2019 - deciding 
to cancel the policy as it had become unaffordable. This meant that the final payment for the 
2018/2019 policy year was not paid. Mr W made  claims in this policy year and under his 
insurance contract he still owes this last instalment  of premium (£144.25). I understand that 
Ultimate has provided some conflicting  information about this to Mr W. But I still think its 
money that Mr W owes Ultimate for the cover he has benefited from. 
As Mr W does owe Ultimate this money, it would be fair for it to offset the £450 
compensation against the £144.25 owed  to it  and pay Mr W the remaining amount. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint  
Ultimate Insurance  Solutions Limited  should pay Mr W £450 compensation. It can offset the 
compensation amount against  the £144.25 owed  to it by Mr W if it chooses  and pay Mr W 
the balance.
Ref: DRN47677713Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2020
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4767771