K820x#14complaint
Miss C and Mrs C are unhappy with the service they received from a mortgage broker  - 
AM Mortgages (UK) Ltd - saying:
Whilst the mortgage was to be in joint names, they wanted the property to be owned 
solely by Miss C.
AM Mortgages  has now said its fee is £1,190, but they were told it would only be £495.
background
In June 2018 Miss C had found a property  she wanted  to buy, but had been struggling  to 
arrange a mortgage through a different  mortgage broker  for various  reasons.  For instance, 
one mortgage  had fallen through because the surveyor had down-valued the property by 
£10,000 but Miss C still wanted to buy it so looked for an alternative mortgage.
At the end of July 2018 Miss C and Mrs C approached AM Mortgages. As Miss C was 
unable to pass affordability checks on her own she wanted her mother  - Mrs C  to be a 
guarantor.
AM Mortgages was unable to source a guarantor mortgage, so it was agreed that the 
mortgage would go in joint names.  Again AM Mortgages struggled to source this as many 
lenders based  the maximum term on Mrs Cs age, which meant  the payments were 
unaffordable. A mortgage was found  and an application was submitted in August.
Miss C and Mrs C say they told the adviser  they wanted the mortgage to be in joint names, 
but with the property to be owned solely by Miss C. The AM Mortgages adviser says the sole 
ownership issue wasnt raised, and he believed this to be a straight joint mortgage and 
jointly-owned  property purchase. Unfortunately the calls werent recorded.
On 25 September  Miss Cs solicitors emailed AM Mortgages, and in that email chain it was 
mentioned the property  was intended  to be in Miss Cs sole name. The AM Mortgages 
adviser didnt pick up on this and so matters continued until 16 October when the lender told 
the solicitor that it couldnt lend on that basis and the property had to be owned in joint 
names.
As Mrs C already owned a property this meant the stamp duty due on the purchase 
increased from £700 to £5,500. After a few days consideration Miss C and Mrs C decided  to 
proceed, and went on to exchange contracts on 5 November and complete on 16 November.
In the meantime Miss C and Mrs C complained to AM Mortgages,  who didnt uphold their 
complaint. AM Mortgages also said Miss C and Mrs C still owed it the £1,190 broker fee as it 
hadnt received  any payment from them.
Our investigator rejected the complaint  about  the ownership of the property, but recently 
obtained agreement  from AM Mortgages  that it would waive £695 of its fee it as the 
illustrations only showed £495 to be due. It also agreed to pay £150  in compensation for not 
picking up on the property ownership issue from the 25 September  email chain. Our 
investigator felt that was fair. 
Ref: DRN48515092Miss C and Mrs C accepted the offer in relation to the fees, but didnt agree with our 
investigators view on the property ownership aspect  of the complaint. As agreement couldnt  
be reached it comes to me to determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As the parties have agreed  to settle the broker fee issue  I dont need to make any findings 
on that. Suffice to say I consider  the agreement that Miss C and Mrs C only be charged £495 
(rather than £1,190) to be fair.
Its unfortunate that the calls werent  recorded  but theres no regulatory  requirement for them 
to be, so I cant hold AM Mortgages at fault for that. Ive carefully considered both sides  of 
the argument and its clear  both sides are determined in their beliefs; Miss C and Mrs C that 
they told AM Mortgages they wanted  the property to be in Miss Cs sole name,  and AM 
Mortgages that this was always  to be a jointly-owned property.
Having considered everything  Im satisfied  on balance  that this was a simple 
misunderstanding, with both sides truly believing  what they thought the transaction  to be was 
agreed by the other party. There would have been no benefit to either party to put the 
application forward otherwise. 
I say this because  its likely Miss C and Mrs C would have  raised the issue (and complaint) 
sooner had they been aware  the property ownership  wasnt  to be in Miss Cs sole name.  But 
equally AM Mortgages wasnt paid anything upfront by Miss C and Mrs C so if theyd pulled 
out when the issue  came to light it would have undertaken a lot of work without receiving any 
payment. AM Mortgages had no way of knowing Miss C and Mrs C would have still chosen 
to proceed so its unlikely  it would have  taken the risk of undertaking so much work with the 
chance of receiving no payment if Miss C and Mrs C pulled out. 
Having considered all the information  provided by both sides theres  nothing  to show  
AM Mortgages was aware  of the ownership  issue before 25 September and so I cant  hold it 
liable for what happened  before then. But Im satisfied AM Mortgages should  have been 
aware of the problem  on 25 September and taken action then. Instead there was a delay of 
three weeks (until 16 October) for the issue to come to light.  
On 16 October Miss C and Mrs C had the information they needed  to decide whether or not 
to proceed with the application, and based  on that information they decided to proceed and 
pay the higher  stamp  duty.  I cant hold AM Mortgages liable for that decision as they hadnt  
exchanged contracts  at that time so could have pulled  out of the transaction.
So I need to decide what I think would have  happened  if Miss C and Mrs C had been made 
aware of the issue on 25 September (rather  than 16 October). To that end our investigator  
asked Miss Cs solicitor what the abortive legal costs would have  been  on those two dates, 
and it was confirmed  it would have been £350  + VAT on 25 September  and £499  + VAT on 
16 October. Ive not taken the searches, valuation fee and application fee into account  as 
those would have  been due either way.
Whilst there was a difference in abortive costs  I dont  consider the difference (£149 + VAT) 
to be enough  that would  have prompted  Miss C and Mrs C to pull out on 25 September 
Ref: DRN48515093when they chose not to on 16 October. All things considered Im satisfied that whilst 
AM Mortgages should have made Miss C and Mrs C aware of the problem on 25 September  
I dont think it would  have  changed anything and I think  its most likely  which is the test I 
must use  that they still would have proceeded with the purchase  on a joint ownership 
basis. AM Mortgages has agreed to pay £150  for the three-week delay in notifying Miss C 
and Mrs C of the problem, and having  considered  everything I think thats fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out, my final decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and order  
AM Mortgages (UK) Ltd to:
reduce the broker fee due from Miss C and Mrs C to £495 (rather than £1,190);  and
pay £150 compensation.
I understand Miss C and Mrs C have  said theyll pay £345 to AM Mortgages  (so taking the 
£150 compensation off the £495  they owe it). Ill leave  it to the parties  to discuss  that 
between themselves as its not part of my consideration.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C and 
Mrs C to accept  or reject  my decision before  15 February 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4851509