K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that they were mis-sold an equity release lifetime  mortgage by 
Independent Mortgage Advice  Bureau (Buckinghamshire) Limited  (IMAB). 
Mr C has said that when  they applied in 2012, Mrs C was in the early  stages  of dementia 
and an application  should not have been  completed   hes questioned  the validity of the 
application and said they were poorly advised  of the implications that Mrs Cs condition could 
have. 
Mr C has led the complaint throughout.
background
In January 2013, Mr and Mrs C took out an equity  release lifetime mortgage for £175,000 
following advice from IMAB. £150,000  (which  included fees) was taken initially to repay  their 
existing mortgage  of £132,000 and undertake repairs  to the property.
This left a cash reserve of £25,000 which could be taken in the future, without the need for 
further approval. The mortgage allowed for additional borrowing in the future, but the 
mortgage offer outlined  that this was not guaranteed as it depends on the lending  criteria at 
the time.  
Mr C made  a complaint  to his lender about the sale of the lifetime  mortgage but as the 
advice was provided by IMAB, the complaint about the sale was referred  to them.  Ive 
considered the complaint about  the lender in a separate decision. 
IMAB responded to the complaint to say that, at the time of applying,  they were satisfied that 
Mrs C was not a vulnerable consumer and that she understood  matters. The adviser  also 
said they dont  advise on legal matters, so were not expected to know  the legal implications 
of how Mrs Cs condition could impact  further drawdowns for the future. 
Our investigator considered the compliant  but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr C 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Was a lifetime mortgage a suitable  recommendation for Mr and Mrs C?
Ive reviewed the available documentation from the time this mortgage was taken out. These 
documents reflect what was said and agreed  at the time. I understand that  with the benefit 
of hindsight and knowing the issues that Mr C has had in accessing further funds - it might 
seem like the recommendation was inappropriate. But its important to consider what 
information and advice was given at the time, with what was known then to determine if the 
mortgage was mis-sold,  rather  than taking an impression  of the sale from events that have 
happened since. 
Ref: DRN41494002The paperwork from the initial discussions identified specific financial objectives. Mr and 
Mrs C needed to pay off their existing mortgage because  Mr C was planning  to retire to look 
after Mrs C full time and without his salary,  they would be unable  to make the monthly 
mortgage payments.  
Mr C has said they also thought about downsizing  at the time,  which is highlighted in the fact 
find document as usually  a cheaper way of raising  money than equity release. But, as Mr C 
has said, he felt that it was important for Mrs C to remain  in the property that she had been 
at for the previous  46 years, with familiar surroundings given her health condition.  I 
understand this and can see that this was a key factor to consider at the time of making the 
application. Its also highlighted that they were considering moving  in the future, and this 
mortgage was portable   meaning it could be taken with them to the new property.
Mr and Mrs C also wanted to make  some improvements to the property, and to use the 
further drawdowns to help supplement  their income in retirement and maintain their standard 
of living.  
So I think that Mr and Mrs C were in need of some borrowing that was more affordable than 
their existing mortgage. Ive considered if something  other  than a lifetime mortgage might  
have been suitable. A common, and usually cheaper, alternative  to a lifetime  mortgage 
would be to downsize but as Mr and Mrs C wished to stay in their home, I dont think its 
unreasonable that the advisor  didnt push this further. Ive also considered if switching to an 
interest only mortgage could have been  a better option. Whilst this might  have  reduced  their 
monthly payments,  I dont  think it would have done so sufficiently  to fit Mr and Mrs Cs 
budget at the time. And considering their age  they were both in their mid-seventies  at the 
time of applying - I dont  think it would have been a viable option  with a lender.  
Considering these factors, I dont think that a lifetime mortgage was an unsuitable 
recommendation. I say this as borrowing was necessary and because  of their circumstances  
they were unable to afford the monthly payment to fund a traditional mortgage. This lifetime  
mortgage required no monthly repayment so would immediately be more  affordable  than 
their existing mortgage. 
It was initially agreed that a total sum of £210,000 would  be taken to repay the existing 
mortgage, a car finance loan and for any additional  living expenses over the next year or so. 
But following  a valuation from the lender, it reduced  the property value from £600,000 to 
£500,000 so these figures  were revised to be a total of £150,000  available immediately, with 
£25,000 available as a cash reserve. 
Mr Cs main complaint is that mental  capacity should have been established before the 
application could  proceed  or alternatively,  they should have been advised to delay the 
application until they knew more about Mrs Cs health. I understand his point, and what hes 
said about the need for a health questionnaire  or something similar as part of the application 
process. It was recorded on the fact find that Mrs C was in good  health but has early stages 
of Alzheimers. IMAB has said that it was aware of the health condition  but, at the time of 
applying, Mrs C appeared to be in good  health and joined in with the conversation.  The fact 
find also records that Mr C did plan to continue working for a bit longer, but that Mrs C 
wanted him to spend time at home,  so he had decided  to stop working  by Christmas and 
retire. Mr C has said that that he needed to retire sooner than this because of Mrs Cs 
deteriorating health. 
Ref: DRN41494003I do understand Mr Cs strength of feeling and the upset this situation has caused.  He 
disputes that he said Mrs C was in the early stages of her condition. Rather, hes said the 
application was made a year after Mrs C needed  to retire from her job because  of her 
condition and some  two years after they received the diagnosis.  Ive taken note that he might  
not have had sight of the fact find document, as the brokers recommendation letter offered to 
provide a copy, but this was never  requested. But this document  would have been 
completed during  the discussions between Mr and Mrs C and brokers  are required to 
complete these factually,  giving  an accurate account  of the situation at the time. I appreciate 
Mr Cs recollections from the time and have taken account of what  hes said.  But recollection 
do fade over time.
Ive also considered the correspondence between Mr C and the broker.  The documentation  
from the time shows that Mr C was engaged  with the advice given  the broker has provided  
a document that shows that Mr C was querying relevant terms provided by the lender.  So, I 
think if he disagreed  with anything, he could have queried this at the time. 
Was this the right type of lifetime mortgage for Mr and Mrs C?
There are different types of lifetime mortgage   some allow for the full amount to be released 
at the outset and others provide an initial amount  to be taken, with further drawdowns later 
on. Ive established that I dont think the lifetime mortgage was an unsuitable option for Mr 
and Mrs C given their circumstances.  So Ive now thought about whether they took out the 
right type of lifetime mortgage. This is important because  of the issues  that Mr C has since 
experienced due to Mrs Cs deteriorating  health condition and, I believe, have prompted  him 
to re-assess the advice he received at the time.  
Mr C first experienced problems when  he made  further draw  down requests in 2014. At the 
beginning of that year, he was able to draw down £10,000 from the cash reserve and the 
lender confirmed the draw down with Mrs C by asking her two simple security  questions 
relating to her personal data, which she was able to answer.
Later, In December 2014, Mr C requested a further  draw down on the cash  advance.  The 
lender asked to speak  to Mrs C and asked the following questions- has any of the money 
drawn down previously been  spent on Mr and Mrs C and which account was the money 
paid into. Mrs C was unable to answer these questions,  so Mr C spoke on her behalf and 
explained her health condition. 
Mr C says it was at this time that the lender  told him this changed everything,  and that he 
would need to obtain a Power  of Attorney before a request  could be made. He looked into 
obtaining this authority  but was told that as Mrs Cs health had deteriorated, it was too late to 
obtain a Power  of Attorney. He was able to apply for a deputyship order  and the lender 
agreed to release all the remaining drawdown facility at this time and the full amount of the 
originally agreed lifetime mortgage  facility was used. 
I understand Mr Cs arguments and, given the subsequent issues  hes had with drawing 
down further on the mortgage, I appreciate that he feels it was mis-sold. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr C but I dont think it was. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Cs application shows there were two different types of lifetime mortgage  
available from their lender  at the time. The lifestyle flexible option- which is the one that 
Mr and Mrs C took,  or a lifestyle lump sum max. Ive considered the fact find and can see 
that in response  to the question  which of the statements below best reflects what  you want 
Ref: DRN41494004from the equity release  arrangement?  Both boxes for you want  a lump sum without any 
income and you want to have guaranteed  access  to additional monies in the future  if you 
need them  were ticked. The question did stipulate  to tick one box only.  The brokers  notes 
also reflect  that they thought the consumer would  be better off using a draw down facility 
rather than releasing  all the funds in one go and that this was being arranged. 
With the benefit of hindsight,  it might have been more  suitable for Mr and Mrs C to have  
initially taken out a lifetime mortgage that allowed for the full amount to be released at the 
outset. From  what Ive seen, its not clear why this wasnt taken. But Ive reviewed  the quotes 
obtained from different  providers  which  included  both of the Aviva options and I can see that 
the interest charged  was less on the flexible option, which  is possibly why this was chosen.  
Notwithstanding this, Mr C has been able to draw down the full maximum amount  that was 
outlined in the original agreement - the latest of this being in 2014   so I dont think this has 
resulted in him losing  out.
Mr C has since  made  further requests and has experienced  difficulties  and its taken him 
time to gain the relevant  authority to draw down further on this mortgage. Im sorry to learn of 
the difficulties  hes experienced, and can appreciate that this must have been  stressful,  
frustrating and time consuming  especially as he is looking  after Mrs C full time. I 
understand that, since bringing this complaint, hes been able to access  further funds from 
the lender.
Mr C has also said that the application  should  have been delayed until they knew more 
about Mrs Cs health condition. But I cant see how delaying matters would have put Mr and 
Mrs C in a better position as they were taking  the mortgage because he needed  to retire to 
look after Mrs C, and hes confirmed that he needed to retire  shortly after the application was 
made because of Mrs Cs health.  So any delay to the application would have meant that he 
would have continued to need to pay his existing mortgage payments, and Ive already 
established this would  have quickly become unaffordable once he retired. 
Before taking this mortgage, Mr and Mrs C were required to have independent legal advice 
from a solicitor. The solicitor confirmed that they had explained the terms of the mortgage  to 
Mr and Mrs C. I think  that if the solicitor had any concerns that Mr and Mrs C didnt 
understand what they were signing, they wouldnt have  certified that Mr and Mrs C did. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs C, but I dont  think this complaint should be upheld.  
conclusions
Considering their circumstances at the time, I dont think  that a lifetime mortgage was an 
unsuitable option for Mr and Mrs C. So, for the reasons Ive set out, Im not persuaded the 
mortgage was mis-sold.  
Ref: DRN41494005my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2020.
Camilla Finnigan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4149400