K821x#15complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) have 
declined her pet insurance  claim.  
background
Mrs H took out a Red Sands pet insurance policy for her dog in 2012.  
In August  2016  a heart murmur was discovered  during  the dogs routine check-up. Tests 
were conducted which  showed the murmur was within normal limits. No further action was 
taken at this time.  
During check-ups  in December 2016  and June 2017  the murmur was still present. Tests 
found it to be within  normal limits, so again  no follow up was required. 
Mrs Hs dog fell ill on 25 December 2017. Following tests, she was diagnosed with heart  
failure on 26 December  2017 and treated for this on the same day.  
Mrs H made  a claim under her pet insurance policy for the treatment and medication 
provided to her dog. Red Sands said the policy provided time  limited cover, which  meant 
cover would only be provided for 365 days from the onset of signs or symptoms of a 
condition. 
Red Sands  felt the tests conducted in August  2016  represented the onset of the dogs heart 
condition. So they said the 365 day limit to claim for this wouldve ended  in August 2017. 
They declined the claim on this basis. 
Mrs H was unhappy with this, as she felt the tests in August 2016  were routine 
examinations. She thought the claim should be paid, because  the tests  had showed the 
heart murmur results were in normal  limits  and no follow up had been  required. 
Mrs H brought her complaint to our service, where our investigator looked into it. Mrs H also 
provided a letter from her vet.
The investigator upheld  the complaint. She thought  the 365 day policy limit should start from 
the date Mrs H couldve reasonably made a claim for the dogs condition  and she felt this 
was in December  2017, when the dog fell ill. 
Our investigator recommended the claim should be reconsidered. Red Sands disagreed.  
They said the heart murmur was a clinical sign of the heart failure and was present from 
August 2016.  So the complaint has been  passed  to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint.
Mrs Hs pet insurance policy provides cover for health conditions for a period of 365 days  
from the date the condition first manifested . It excludes cover for any costs incurred more 
than 365 days after the datethe clinical signs  of illness were first noticed  for any condition. 
Ref: DRN42080092When we decide  when the 365 days should  start from,  we don't always  think  it's fair to apply 
the exclusion from when  a pet first shows clinical signs of a condition. If no treatment was 
recommended at that time, we consider  the 365 days should  start from when treatment was 
needed - when the policyholder first had cause to claim. 
In Mrs Hs case, I think the 365 days should  start from when she could reasonably have 
made a claim for her dogs heart condition. This would  be from December 2017, when her 
dog fell ill. 
I don't think it would be fair for the 365 days to start running from August 2016.  I say this 
because no treatment was recommended  and there  were no costs  for Mrs H to claim for.
Also, the vets letter states It is in my professional opinion that at the time the heart  murmur 
was first noted on clinical exam, together with the appropriate blood  tests, it was deemed  
non-clinical and no treatment was warrantedMy experience is that not all heart murmurs 
progress to clinical heart disease and subsequent  failure. It seems  the vet didnt consider 
the heart murmur as a sign of heart  failure  when it was first discovered. And I think this 
represents an experts opinion on the matter. 
Even if the heart  murmur  had been  linked  to heart failure in August 2016,  I still think the 365 
days should start from the date the dog needed treatment for the heart  condition  - and this 
was in December  2017. I understand Mrs Hs dog has since  sadly  passed away.
Following the investigators opinion, Red Sands asked to see a copy of the vets letter on 
headed paper. The authenticity of this letter has not previously been  in dispute. Regardless,  
the letter was sent via email from the vet to Mrs H, and Ive seen a copy  of this email. So I 
have no concerns with this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I uphold this complaint. 
Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  should reconsider the claim under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. They should bear in mind Mrs Hs dog suffered 
from heart failure on 25 December 2016,  so this would be covered for 365 days from this 
date. 
If paying the claim, Red Sands Insurance  Company  (Europe) Limited should also pay 
interest on the treatment  fees Mrs H has paid which she hasnt been reimbursed for, at a 
rate of 8% simple per year from the date she paid to the date she is reimbursed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Artemis Pantelides
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4208009