K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold a 
Select Silver  packaged  bank account to her in 2014. 
background
Our adjudicators looked at Miss Bs complaint already and didnt think  NatWest had mis-sold the 
account. Miss B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts on our website.  And Ive used  this approach  to 
decide what to do about Miss B complaint. 
Having looked  at all the information  provided, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint. Id like to 
explain why in a little more detail.
Ive started by thinking about whether Miss B was given a clear choice in taking the 
Select Silver  account. At this point, it may help for me to explain that I have to make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened. And in working out what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened, I have to think about  everything Ive been told together  
with everything else Ive been provided with and see how this fits with what  I do know. In 
other words, what l have to do, in this case, is decide what I think is most likely  to have 
happened having weighed up what Miss B and NatWest have been able to provide me with.  
Miss Bs account was opened as a fee paying Select Silver account. But its common  
knowledge that free accounts  are widely available in the United Kingdom. So I think  she 
wouldve known NatWest  did free accounts  and that she couldve had one of those if thats 
what she really wanted.  Im also mindful  that Miss B opened this account online and without 
anyone from NatWest  being present. 
Equally I think its unlikely that NatWest wouldve defaulted to the Select  Silver account  
during any online application especially as it did a number of different accounts  including  
other packaged ones which were  more expensive than this one.
Im also mindful that the information Miss B wouldve seen when applying for the account 
online wouldve set out the monthly  fee for the account before she agreed to it. Equally     
Miss B would also have  received a significant amount of documentation  from NatWest over 
the years. And I think Miss B wouldve contacted NatWest  to query why she was being 
charged account fees if she hadnt been  told about the fee, or the account,  in the first place.  
So while Ive thought about  what Miss B has said, overall I think  its most likely she chose to 
take the Select Silver  account knowing there  was a fee  albeit she may no longer recall  this. 
As the account  was sold online,  I dont  think that NatWest recommended  it to Miss B. So 
NatWest didnt have  to check if the account was right for her. And it was up to Miss B to 
decide this taking into account  what the package included. But NatWest did have to give her 
clear enough  information  to do this. I do think its likely that Miss B saw information about the 
benefits and was at least provided  with an overview of what the account included.  After all 
Ref: DRN44896682NatWest was looking to make the account  appear  as attractive as possible so Miss B would  
agree to pay the monthly fee when she most likely  knew she didnt have to.
When Miss B agreed to the account it included mobile phone  and travel insurance. As      
Miss B chose to take the account without anyone from NatWest  being present, I can only 
reasonably conclude that she found  enough  of the package useful for her to decide that it 
was worth her while taking it. And it was up to Miss B to use the benefits.
Miss B may now,  with the benefit of hindsight, think that she shouldnt have chosen this 
account. And given  what she mightve  read or heard about packaged accounts in general, 
I can understand why this might now lead her to believe that her account was mis-sold.  But 
I think its likely that Miss B chose to take the account after having been provided  with 
enough to know  what the it included. So I want to reassure  Miss B that having  looked at all 
the information Ive been provided with and thought  about everything shes  said,  I dont think 
that NatWest mis-sold  the Select Silver  account to her. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4489668