K820x#14complaint
Its agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill just refer to FICL in 
my decision.
Ms M says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Ms M took out with a store card in December 2004.  It 
was added to her account when  she applied for the card in the store  whilst  shopping.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Ms M mainly said that the policy was added to her store card without her knowledge.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Ms Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Its not surprising  that Ms M told us she doesn't remember  exactly what was discussed when 
she took out PPI so long ago. I wouldnt expect anyone to be able to do that - but what  she 
says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. I have to look at 
everything and decide  what I think is most likely.
FICL has given us a copy of Ms Ms completed store card application. Ms M has signed in 
the PPI part of the form, next to where  it says Yes, I would like to protect  my Account with 
Account CoverPlease debit my Account  with the relevant  monthly premium until further 
notice. I think its reasonable to expect Ms M wouldve first read through anything she was 
asked to sign. So, although I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it 
wouldve been clear from the paperwork that it was up to Ms M to say if she wanted to have 
PPI added on. 
Ms M signed the completed application  so it seems to me that she must have agreed with 
the information on the form at the time  even if, understandably,  she has forgotten  this now. 
On balance, I find that Ms M was aware  the policy was optional  and she chose to take it out.
Even though  no PPI recommendation was made  by FICL it still needed to make sure it gave  
Ms M enough clear  information to decide if the policy was right for her.
Its possible some information FICL gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Ms M wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy,  if 
clearer information had been provided. 
This policy couldve paid a benefit  for as long as Ms M was off work  sick or if Ms M lost her 
job unexpectedly and was out of work.
Ref: DRN44556892Based on what Ms M remembers about  her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like 
she had significant  other means she couldve relied  on for very long if she wasnt  working. 
So, based  on all the information Ive seen,  I think Ms M couldve benefitted from having PPI 
if shed needed  to claim.
 
It doesnt look as if Ms M was affected  by any of the things the policy  didnt cover. So, I dont 
think more information  about the policy exclusions and limitations  wouldve made any 
difference to Ms Ms decision to take out PPI. 
I dont think its likely  that FICL gave Ms M clear enough information about  the costs  of the 
PPI policy. But Ms M chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  so she seems to 
have wanted it at the time, and been  happy to pay to have it, even if shes  forgotten this now. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  Ms M, I think  it unlikely she wouldve made 
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. On balance  I think  shed still 
have taken out the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4455689