K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) mis-sold an Ultimate  Reward  
Current Account (URCA) packaged bank  account to her in 2011. 
background
One of our adjudicators has looked at Mrs Ms complaint and didnt  think  BOS had mis-sold 
the URCA.  Mrs M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  what to do about Mrs Ms complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, I dont think BOS  mis-sold the URCA to 
Mrs M. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
From what  Ive seen, Mrs Ms account  was upgraded  to a fee paying URCA from a free 
account that shed had for a number  of years. So I think its likely that Mrs M wouldve  known  
BOS did free accounts. Mrs M says she was told she had to have an URCA to have an 
overdraft. 
Ive thought about what Mrs Ms said. But Mrs M upgraded  at a time when  BOS  charged its 
free current  account  holders a £1 a day overdraft usage fee to use an agreed  overdraft. 
URCA account holders  didnt need  to pay this fee as long as they kept to their individual  
agreed limit as well as the overall  URCA limit. So its possible the URCA  mightve been 
suggested as a way of ensuring Mrs M would pay less in fees to use an overdraft. 
Im also mindful that Mrs M had an overdraft on a separate free account.  Mrs M might not 
have used it. But, in my view, it was more logical for Mrs M to use the overdraft on her 
URCA as using the one on her free account  would mean shed have to pay £1 a day when 
she was already paying a fee for the URCA  this month. 
So I dont  think that Mrs M not using  the overdraft on her free account means that she was 
misled into thinking  she had to have an URCA to have  an overdraft of any description. 
Overall having thought  about everything  Ive seen, I think its likely  Mrs M was told about the 
URCA and she was given  a clear choice  on taking  it. 
 
BOS says it didnt recommend the URCA.  And I havent seen  anything  here to suggest      
Mrs Ms needs were assessed  before the URCA was sold,  which is what shouldve 
happened if the account was recommended.  So overall I dont  think  that BOS did 
recommend the URCA to Mrs M. This means  it didnt have to check  if the URCA was right 
for Mrs M. It was up to Mrs M to do this. But BOS did have to give her clear enough 
information to do so. I think its likely Mrs M was provided with information on the main 
benefits included  on the URCA. After all BOS was trying to get her to pay for it when she in 
all likelihood knew she didnt have to. 
In any event, when  Mrs M agreed  to the URCA a couple of the main benefits  it included were 
mobile phone insurance,  home emergency  cover  and preferential overdraft terms. And 
Ref: DRN44318802having looked at what shes told us about her circumstances,  Ive seen no obvious reason to 
suggest Mrs M couldnt have used  these benefits. Indeed it looks like Mrs M registered at 
least one handset with the mobile phone insurer and also contacted the home  emergency  
cover provider. 
Mrs M also saved  by not having to pay the £1 a day overdraft usage fees that BOS free 
accountholders had to pay too. So I think its fair to say she made some use of the URCA. I 
accept that Mrs M may not have had a need  for all the benefits.  But the benefits on 
packaged accounts are sold as overall packages. And its rare for an accountholder to want 
and need all the benefits in a given package.
Overall I think  Mrs M was eligible  for and couldve used the main  benefits of the URCA. So 
while Im open to the possibility she might not have been told everything she needed  to 
about all the ins and outs of the URCA,  I do think she received enough to know and 
understand what she was agreeing to. 
Mrs M may now,  with the benefit of hindsight, think she shouldnt  have taken  upgraded. And 
given what she mightve read about  packaged  accounts in general, I can understand why 
she believes  her URCA  mightve been mis-sold. But I think Mrs M chose to take the URCA 
having a decent appreciation of what  it included. So I want  to reassure  Mrs M that having 
looked at all the information provided and thought about everything shes  said,  I dont think  
BOS mis-sold the URCA to her. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4431880