K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  NewDay  Ltd (trading as Aqua) said it would change the payment date on his 
card account  but didnt  do so.
background
Mr L said he kept asking  Aqua  to change his payment date to the first day of every month 
but even though it said it would do this it keeps changing the date.
Aqua apologised for not actioning his request.  It paid him £25 compensation, removed all 
adverse information  from his credit record and confirmed it hadnt  charged him any fees for 
any late payment. In its response  to our involvement  it said it could only locate  a phone call 
on 1 March 2019 asking for the due date to be amended. In that phone call Mr L had asked 
for his payment  to be made between the first and fifth day of the month. It said its agent 
wouldnt have known  the exact  payment date because that is system  generated. But the 
letter it sent to Mr L about the change confirmed the new date would be on or around the 
second day of the month. Aqua confirmed to this Service that the payment due date is 
always 17 days after the date the statement is generated.
Our investigator thought Aqua had acted fairly. He listened to the phone call on 1 March  and 
could hear that the agent explained it wasnt possible  for the payment date to be the first day 
of every month but he could arrange for it to be as close  as possible to that date. Our 
investigator looked at Mr Ls statements and could  see that this was now happening.  
Mr L wasnt happy with this and wanted  Aqua  to provide all the phone calls.  And he said the 
letter it sent to him confirmed the payment date as the second day of the month.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for very similar reasons.
Mr L wants to make  his payment on the first day of the month. Aqua cant  guarantee that but 
it has changed the date his statement is generated to the sixteenth  day of the month to make  
sure the payment due date is as close to the first day of the following month as it can be. I 
dont think it can do more  than that. Ive looked at the letter it sent Mr L on 6 March  and I can 
see it said his new date would be on or around the second day of the month. 
Mr L wants all the phone  calls he had with Aqua  because he said he was given different 
information. Aqua says it cant locate any more phone calls but that doesnt affect my 
decision. Its accepted it didnt action  his request and its paid him £25 compensation. It has 
removed any adverse information from his credit record. It hasnt charged him any fees for 
late payment. And its changed the payment date to accommodate Mr L. I think thats fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances even if it cant  locate the phone calls.  
 
Ref: DRN45779022my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4577902