K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that their claim for a damaged  ceiling wasnt paid. The buildings 
insurance policy is provided by Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited.
background
In the autumn of 2018 Mr and Mrs G contacted Lloyds to make a claim because  the plaster  
had fallen from an area of a bedroom ceiling. The plaster had fallen onto various items. 
Lloyds appointed a contractor to assess the claim and if appropriate, restore/repair the 
damaged items. Those that were beyond economical restoration were  listed  and valued. 
The report  produced after the visit said that Mrs G had been elsewhere in the property when 
she heard  a loud crash  in the room  above. She discovered a large section of the lath and 
plaster ceiling  had randomly collapsed. It went on to say that it was unclear what the cause 
of the damage  was as there  are no visual signs.
Mr and Mrs G think  the damage to their ceiling  might have  been  caused by vibrations from 
vehicles passing  their house (including traversing speed bumps)  on the nearby road. 
Lloyds declined the claim for the ceiling because the policy excludes damage that has been  
caused by wear and tear or anything that happens  gradually. The claim for the damage to 
items of contents was accepted and settled. 
When Mr and Mrs G complained to Lloyds it accepted the service they had received had not 
been as good as it should have been  and there  had been some  delays in dealing with the 
claim. It offered them £200 for any inconvenience they had suffered. 
Mr and Mrs G remained  unhappy the claim for the ceiling wasnt  being paid and referred 
their complaint to this service. One of our investigators considered the complaint  and 
recommended it be upheld. He recommended Lloyds should  reconsider the claim without 
applying the exclusion  for wear  and tear.
Lloyds didnt accept  the investigators  conclusions. It provided a photograph of the damaged 
ceiling which showed the ceiling laths were  intact in the area of the collapse and that the 
plaster covering  has simply  detached from it. It clarified that there was no insured peril that 
had caused the ceiling  to collapse. It said that if Mr and Mrs G were correct about  vibrations 
from passing traffic contributing to the collapse,  this was something that would have 
happened over a period of time and so the exclusion for gradually operating causes would  
apply. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change  his view of the complaint. As such,  Lloyds 
asked that the complaint be passed to an ombudsman  for consideration, as it was entitled  to 
so.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 June 2020.  In that document I set out my conclusions 
and reasons for reaching them. Below  is an excerpt from that document.
Insurance policies dont  cover all damage that can happen to a building. Mr and Mrs G have 
a perils based insurance policy. This means  that it only provides cover for damage  to their 
home if that damage  is caused by a single incident from a specified list of fortuitous events, 
for example storm. Mr and Mrs G also selected the additional option of accidental  damage.  
Ref: DRN40322852This covers their buildings in the event something  happens, which isnt contained in the list 
of perils, and causes damage  to their home. However, there  still needs  to be an event that 
causes the damage. In addition, that event needs  to be sudden,  unintentional  and 
unexpected.
Having considered the submissions of both Mr and Mrs G and Lloyds it is clear  that there is 
no evidence of something happening to the ceiling, such  as an impact  or an escape  of water,  
which caused the partial collapse. In the terms I have used above,  there  is no evidence the 
damage was caused by an event. 
It is not unusual  for plaster on old ceilings to de-bond from the supporting  laths. When this 
happens, the ceiling will collapse  and if its only a small area of the ceiling there  may have  
been no visible signs of the de-bonding process. Having looked at the photograph of the 
area of collapse,  the underlying laths appear  to be entirely intact and there  is little plaster  
remaining attached  to them. This would  indicate the plaster de-bonded  from the laths. So 
whilst the collapse was sudden and unexpected,  the absence  of something identifiable 
happening to the ceiling  to cause the collapse means the policy  doesnt  provide any cover  
for the damage.
I understand that Mr and Mrs G think the passing  traffic  might  have caused or contributed to 
the de-bonding  and subsequent collapse. It is possible this was the case,  but there is no 
definitive evidence  it was. However, as Lloyds has put forward, that wouldnt have  happened  
from just one passing vehicle, but many over time. Such damage would have occurred over 
time and so the exclusion for gradually  operating causes could reasonably be applied  and 
defeat the claim.
I note that Mr and Mrs G consider the term wear and tear is not fit for purpose as they 
consider that in common parlance it applies to things like carpets and paintwork, not 
ceilings or major structures. They said the misleading use of the wear and tear term means 
their claim should be paid. I have considered Mr and Mrs Gs opinion on this matter, but I 
cant agree  that most people wouldnt consider that a building couldnt suffer  from wear  and 
tear. 
Having considered this complaint carefully,  I dont consider the evidence  shows  there is a 
valid claim for the collapsed ceiling and so I cant find Lloyds did anything  wrong in declining  
it.
Lloyds confirmed it didnt  wish to make any further submissions. Mr and Mrs D didnt accept 
my conclusions. They put forward further comment on why they didnt consider it fair or 
reasonable for a wear  and tear exclusion to be applied  to parts of a building such as a 
ceiling. In summary, they consider that dictionary definitions  of wear and tear require use 
and a ceiling  is not used  in common parlance  because it isnt touched/handled/walked  on. 
As such,  they dont consider it can reasonably be excluded  from their claim as something  
that suffers wear and tear.
In addition, Mr and Mrs G explained  that all the photographs of the damaged  ceiling were  
taken by them and were taken over a period of months. They  accepted that it is unlikely that 
the vibrations  caused by a single  passing vehicle on one occasion  would  cause the ceiling to 
collapse, but that hasnt  been proven to be the case.  They mentioned  some  situations that 
might have caused the ceiling to collapse  rain penetration and rotten timbers  to highlight 
that there  may have been many reasons for the collapse of the ceiling and that it couldnt be 
proven what caused  the damage. They think it is Lloyds responsibility to prove  what  the 
Ref: DRN40322853cause of damage was and that it shouldnt be able to rely on the catch-all wear and tear 
exclusion.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset to decide  whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr and Mrs G have said that they believe it is the insurers responsibility to prove  
the cause of damage beyond reasonable doubt and in the absence of it being able to do so, 
their claim should be paid. I can understand why Mr and Mrs G would consider this to be a 
reasonable position in the circumstances, but, under strict interpretation of such  policies  the 
position is quite  the opposite. Technically, under the terms of the contract  it is for a 
policyholder to evidence they have suffered a loss which  is covered by the policy.  However, 
in reality that responsibility  is shared  by the insurer and the policyholders. So the fact that 
Lloyds cant prove with 100% certainty  that the ceiling  collapsed due to a cause that isnt 
covered by the policy isnt reason for me to require it to pay the claim.
Mr and Mrs G have again explained why they dont think wear and tear is a reasonable term 
to be used within the buildings insurance  policy. I can understand what they are saying, but I 
dont agree. Even if the general  public wouldnt immediately think of something  like a ceiling 
deteriorating over time because of its function   suffering from wear and tear - that doesnt 
mean that it doesnt  deteriorate and suffer wear and tear. An insurer is able to provide cover 
for the risks it is willing to accept. If it doesnt  want  to cover wear and tear/age  related 
deterioration, which none I know of does, it is entitled not to cover it and that includes all 
wear and tear a property suffers.
As I said in my provisional decision,  not everything  that happens to a property  is covered  by 
a normal buildings  insurance policy. Normal deterioration/wear and tear damage simply isnt 
covered. I know Mr and Mrs G are unhappy about my findings, but having re-examined the 
evidence in this case, I have seen  nothing that indicates a single event happened  to their 
ceiling causing  it to partially  collapse.  It appears  the bond between the laths  and the plaster 
broke down  over time and the plaster  fell under its own weight. In those circumstances,  there 
is no cover  available  under the policy because the damage wasnt  caused by an insured 
peril.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to accept or reject  my decision 
before 23 July 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4032285