K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2000. Mrs K says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
It seems  that Mrs K initially  took out PPI when applying  for her mortgage in            
September 2000. Ive then seen a note requesting that the PPI be cancelled and its 
dated 28 September 2000.
 
Ive then seen  a separate PPI application form dated  29 November 2000, requesting to 
add PPI to the account. I cant safely say why Mrs K completed another  application form 
after shed initially agreed to take PPI, and then cancelled it.
But I do think that the PPI was presented  as optional and she chose  to take it out. 
I also think Halifax made it clear that Mrs K didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out.
Mrs K has said as part of her complaint that that when she signed  the application form 
for PPI (for the second time) that she was confused  and didnt know what  she was 
signing for as the business had used technical terminology interchangeably. Ive 
carefully considered  this, but:
othe mortgage application has entitled  the section  for PPI as Accident, Sickness 
and unemployment  Insurance. It then states  We recommend that you consider 
our Mortgage Repayments Insurance Scheme 
othe separate form that Mrs K completed on 29 September  2000  is headed  
Mortgage Repayments Insurance. 
oin her request  to cancel the initial policy, Mrs K has referred to PPI as she 
referred to the PPI as sickness & unemployment Mortgage Repayment  
Insurance suggesting that she understood the level of cover.
othe second application for PPI used  the same application form as Mrs K signed  
for the first PPI application.
So, on balance, I think its more likely than not that Mrs K was reasonably aware  of 
what the PPI covered  her for as shes completed  the first form and then decided she 
didnt want PPI, but then completed the same  form again a few months  later. 
Ive also seen a screen  shot from Halifaxs internal systems. Theres  a file note dated 
14 February 2005. It states .advised  her that since she took this out in 2000 it 
would always have  been a/s/u   asked cst what she thought this was but she was not 
sure but advised  she does wnt to keep it This suggests that Mrs K did want  PPI 
when she was reminded what  the insurance  covered.
Ref: DRN42343422Although Mrs K has said that she wasnt contacted  by Halifax after she completed 
the second PPI application form in November 2000,  as Ive said already, I think its 
reasonable to assume that Mrs K would have been  aware of what she was applying  
for. Its also reasonable  to assume  that when Halifax received a second  application  
for PPI, a few months after the PPI was applied for and then cancelled,  that they 
thought that Mrs K had changed her mind again and wanted to take PPI.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs K so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. Mrs K has said that because of her existing means of making her repayments 
she didnt need PPI. 
But this PPI policy could  have paid out for up to 24 months,  which is longer than    
Mrs Ks existing  means of making  her repayments would have lasted. I say this 
because 24 months is longer than the sick pay and savings  combined that Mrs K has 
told us about likely  would have lasted for.
It also seems  that Mrs K wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover and she seems to have  had a need for the cover.  
Although Mrs K disagrees,  I think that she did have a need for PPI and could have 
found it useful  if she was unwell and unable  to work  or if she was made unemployed 
- particularly as Mrs K was taking  on a long term and significant financial commitment 
and the potential consequences  if she was unable to keep up with her repayments. 
Its very possible, that the information Halifax gave  Mrs K about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  
this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for her if something 
went wrong. 
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover and I dont think that Mrs K has lost out 
because of anything  that Halifax may have done wrong.  . 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs K about that. Because  Halifax didnt tell Mrs K, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs K has said - including what shes said about:
Not being  made  aware that she could  take PPI with a different provider. But Halifax 
werent obliged  to tell Mrs K about other policies sold by other providers. In any case, 
if Mrs K changed her mind  about  PPI, her circumstances changed or she simply 
didnt want it any more,  she could  have cancelled it at any time - without losing out.
Ref: DRN42343423later financial reviews.  Mrs K has made reference to a 2003 review, but my decision 
doesnt deal with it. If Mrs K is unhappy about  anything else she can speak to Halifax  
about it.
the tax on her offer. Its my understanding that Mrs K may be able to claim back tax if 
she currently doesnt pay tax, but this is something  that she should speak to Halifax  
or HMRC about.
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back  to Mrs K any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has 
already done this, I dont award  any further  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs K to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4234342