K822xcomplaint
Mr H feels that Santander  Consumer (UK) Plc has treated him unfairly in financing  a car for 
him of unsatisfactory quality.
Background
In March 2020 I issued a provisional decision saying that I was minded to uphold the 
complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions  before  I reached my 
final decision. Mr H has accepted the decision.  Santander has provided its comments along 
with those from the car dealership (even though the dealership  isnt a party to this 
complaint).
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The dealership has queried whether the timing chain needed replacing. It has raised this 
issue despite the fact that Santander  has said it would like to offer  a minimum 50% 
contribution to the repair costs of the timing chain,  that Mr H has said it needed repairing 
and an independent garage  has reviewed  the timing chain and replaced it and Mr H was 
willing to pay for it, did so and provided  the receipt. On balance  Im satisfied it needed 
replacing.
Santander has pointed  to its website regarding cambelt replacement and how often that 
should be done. It also points to the issue of Mr Hs mileage after getting  the car. However  it 
doesnt pass comment on my original arguments about why this timing chain wasnt 
sufficiently durable. It should  be noted that although  cambelts and timing  chains  perform  
similar functions they are made  of different materials  and are significantly different in 
durability (timing chains being significantly more durable). 
I also echo the investigators comment regarding a similar model of (car from the same 
manufacturer) states that the timing chain  should last at least 120,000 miles. So I am 
satisfied that this timing  chain wasnt sufficiently durable. 
As Santander has not made any persuasive  comments on my provisional  decision and 
having considered the matter again, I see no persuasive reason  to change my position. 
Consequently, I uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the above reasons and those described in my provisional decision attached  I uphold  this 
complaint I direct Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to pay Mr H £545 for the replacing of the 
timing chain plus 8% interest from the date Mr H paid for its replacing.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN45490822COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr H feels that Santander  Consumer (UK) Plc has treated him unfairly in financing  a car for 
him of unsatisfactory quality.
background
In March 2018 Mr H entered into a conditional sale agreement for a second-hand car. At the 
time the car was approximately eleven years old and had driven just over 53,000 miles. Mr H 
paid a cash price of £4,695 through the finance  agreement.
In April 2018 Mr H noticed some issues with the underneath of the car. He got a health 
check performed on the car which shows corrosion problems with the springs and discs 
(which need new pads and discs) and that it had the wrong silencer fitted.  Mr H went  on to 
get the timing  chain  replaced at his own cost.
In August  2018  Mr H complained to Santander about the timing chain, clutch, discs and 
pads, corrosion, callipers and silencer. In September 2018 an independent  inspection  is 
carried out. The engineer identified a number of issues as outlined  above but decided that 
the faults probably werent present at when Mr H got the car.
Mr H, not being  happy  with Santanders decision to not uphold  his complaint, brought his 
complaint here.
Our investigator looked into the matter. In talking to Santander a proposed settlement was 
reached which was that Santander would pay half the costs  of the timing chain replacement 
which equates  to £272.50.  The investigator said Santander was entitled to attempt a repair  
first, but Mr H didnt allow Santander  an opportunity to do that. For that reason he thought its 
offer to pay half was fair. Mr H doesnt  agree so his complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
My provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of their complaint.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Ive considered whether the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point when Mr H bought  it.  
Clearly when buying a new car, you can reasonably expect to use it for a significant period 
without experiencing the failure  of an important component or system. But when  purchasing 
a car which has been running for some  years and has significant  mileage, the buyer should 
appreciate that the car is then into the area of risk that a component or system may fail. And 
it is reasonable to accept  that the risk of repair increases  with increasing use and age of the 
car. And considering the age, mileage and cost of this car it is clear that in buying this 
Ref: DRN45490823second-hand car Mr H accepted an increased  risk of repair.  I appreciate that Mr H points to 
the advertising of the car being in excellent condition. But Mr H also knew  when he got the 
car that it was eleven years old and had driven just over 53,000  miles. So it is clear that 
excellent had a degree of context to it.
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory considering  any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. On this basis if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Santander to put this right.   But Santanders 
responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its condition at the 
point of supply,  they are not responsible for issues  that develop afterwards such  as those 
relating to wear  and tear.
I think the independent report here is relevant and I note that the engineer felt that the 
problems with the car that he identified were  unlikely to be present at the point of sale.  Mr H 
clearly doesnt agree.  But Mr H has a vested interest  whereas the independent engineer  
doesnt. I also have  to bear in mind that between purchase and the independent report  Mr H 
drove approximately 11,000 miles  which  in my opinion is a significant  distance in roughly six 
months.
The issues  with the clutch, discs and pads, corrosion and callipers are identified, and all are 
susceptible to wear and tear. And the car is eleven  years old at the point of sale. I think  it 
unlikely Mr H could have  driven as far as he had if these elements of wear and tear were  all 
present at point of sale. I also can see that hes had advisory notices  from the garage 
regarding these issues. These are lesser  notices than the more severe immediate  attention  
category of notice. Mr H has provided  records from another inspection and his own detailed 
thoughts on the matter.  I am very grateful for these  submissions  but Im afraid they havent 
convinced me that, on balance, there  is evidence the wear and tear that now exists was 
present when the car was supplied.
Having said that there  is one area where I think Santander has more to do. Ive considered  
the evidence regarding the timing  chain and how quickly  it needed replacement.  Ive also 
considered the part in itself and given thought to what the likely wear and tear is and what Id 
expect in terms of durability of such a part. But I have to counterbalance this with the fact 
Santander hasnt  had an opportunity to inspect it. Santander has agreed to pay half the cost 
of the repair. But Im not persuaded  that is sufficient. I appreciate Santander says there 
wasnt an issue with it at the point of supply  and the issue  with the timing  chain didnt come 
to light until sometime later. But the fact that the timing chain needed replacing after the 
mileage the car had done at that time persuades  me it wasnt  sufficiently  durable.  This is 
because having  considered the make and model of the car and the service schedule  Id 
expect the timing chain  to not need replacing  until after at least  90,000 miles. But this timing 
chain needed  replacing significantly short of that mileage. So it seems  to me that the part 
failed prematurely and hence demonstrates to me on balance that there was already a 
problem with the timing  chain  when the car was supplied. I dont think  Mr H has acted 
unreasonably in getting it replaced somewhere else as he did. So all in all I think it fair that 
Santander cover the full cost of the timing chain replacement (£545) not just half of it.
Ive also given thought to the exhaust issue. Mr H says the exhaust fitted to the car is not the 
original and isnt the appropriate type.  However the independent report,  although noting 
increased noise  found that it was unlikely the noise would have been increased at the point 
Ref: DRN45490824of sale. And Mr H has driven roughly 11000 miles with it. Just because it is not the original 
part, or necessarily one made by the manufacturer  it doesnt necessarily mean it is 
unsuitable or inadequate. Bearing in mind the distance its done  I dont think it fair to make 
Santander do any more  in regard to the exhaust.
Mr H has also complained  about  the engine  misfire and has said to this service  that the 
misfire was a direct issue from the timing  chain slipping.  But the invoice for the timing chain 
repair is dated 18/08/18. The ACE report is based  on the visit of 11/09/18 and says the 
customer has advised the exhaust  and timing chain have been  repaired  RC1 on first page. 
But the ACE report  to goes on to say (R5) that the engine  did misfire. So I think it is unlikely 
that the misfire is a result  of the timing  chain considering the issue  is ongoing even when the 
new timing chain is in place. And furthermore the ACE report does give the opinion  on 
balance of probabilities that the misfire would not be developing at the finances inception.  
So I think considering  this and the issue continued with the new timing chain Im not 
persuaded it was present at the time of the finance nor caused  by the timing chain (that 
wasnt sufficiently durable).
So my current thinking  is that Santander  should pay Mr H £545 for the replacing of the timing 
chain plus 8% interest from the date Mr H paid for its replacing.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am currently minded to uphold  the complaint  against 
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc and for it to pay redress as set out above.
I now invite both parties  to give me their final thoughts on the matter  within  the timeline 
described above.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4549082