K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs S took out in 2000.  It was added to her 
account when  she applied for the card.
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of FICL. I cant consider this complaint 
against the seller  of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, 
or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or were otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  
than any other business.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ss complaint because:
I dont think FICL  gave Mrs S clear enough  information about the policy. I say this 
because in order to make an unemployment  claim,  Mrs S needed to be in continuous 
work for 6 months immediately before the claim.  
The policy defined work/working as Working  in paid employment for at least 16 
hours or more a week in the UK This is important because Mrs S has told us that 
she had been  working for 16 hours  or less around  the time of the sale, so it was 
harder for her to claim the unemployment  benefit  on the policy  than she may have 
reasonably expected. 
In my opinion, theres nothing on the application form that would reasonably draw this 
to Mrs Ss attention and its not sufficiently prominent in the terms and conditions 
document that Mrs S likely would have received after the sale.  Although  Mrs S was 
employed, it seems that she wouldnt have  met the policy definition  for working  in 
order to be able to make a claim. 
FICL identified an inconsistency in Mrs Ss recollection of her employment, but Im satisfied 
that shes recalled her circumstances as well as can reasonably  be expected given that the 
sale took place  almost 20 years ago.
Ref: DRN47039562I dont think Mrs S wouldve  bought  the policy if FICL  had given her enough information 
about it. So, I think Mrs S has lost out because of what FICL did wrong.  
Ive taken into account FICLs comments, but I still think I should uphold  the complaint.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs S in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs S would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs S owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs S would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs S would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mrs S 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs S paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs S 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year
D.FICL should tell Mrs S what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs S a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN47039563
Ref: DRN4703956