K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2005 
alongside a credit card. Mrs A says Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS), trading  as Halifax, mis-sold  
her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain  why. 
Mrs A took out the PPI over the phone and was then sent a credit agreement  to sign and 
send back. Unfortunately  due to the time thats passed there is no longer a call recording for 
me to listen  to. However, weve  seen a call script  that BoS says wouldve been used for 
these types of sales  and Ive not seen any evidence to persuade me that this script 
wouldnt have been used for the sale of Mrs As policy. The script shows  the BoS sales 
person wouldve been instructed to present the PPI as optional  and only add the PPI to 
Mrs As account with her explicit  consent.  
Ive also seen a copy of Mrs A credit  agreement which was sent to her in the post following 
the call. This includes a section for additional  products and in this there is a pre-printed  x in 
the box for PPI. The rest of the form has also been pre-printed with Mrs As personal  details  
at the time. So I think this information reflects what was discussed  on the phone where 
Mrs A agreed to take out the policy. This application form has been signed to show  Mrs A 
consented to the information included within it. 
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think BoS made it clear that Mrs A didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she 
cant remember this.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs A so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she doesnt seem to be affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Mrs A 
says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer at the time, but I still think  she had a 
need for the cover because the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months and in addition  to 
her sick pay. So these funds couldve been  used for other  expenses. And Mrs A told us she 
didnt have any savings  or other insurance  to cover her repayments  in the event she was 
suddenly unable to work. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs A about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs A paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give Mrs A back some of the cost of the 
Ref: DRN48192412PPI. I understand BoS has already paid this to Mrs A so I dont think  it needs to do anything 
more.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 September 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4819241