K820x#14complaint
Ms K says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Ms K took out to cover the payments on a store  card in 
2002. Its been agreed that FICL, as the insurer,  should  take responsibility  for the complaint.  
So, for clarity, Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms K disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ks case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ks complaint. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, FICL had to make it clear to Ms K that she had a choice about  it. But 
Ms K has said it wasnt made clear the PPI was optional and that she was told she had to 
have PPI in order  to get the store card.
FICL has said that Ms Ks PPI policy started  around  eight  months  after the store  card was 
opened. And its sent us a copy of Ms Ks application form for the store  card, which  shows  
the section on PPI wasnt completed. So it looks like the PPI did start some  time after the 
store card was opened. And so I dont think Ms K can reasonably have  thought she had to 
have the PPI in order  to get the card.
FICL has said the PPI was sold over the phone, and its sent us copies of sales scripts it 
says were used in similar calls. Based on these, I think its likely that it was made clear to 
Ms K that she had a choice about  the PPI in the sales  call. And that Ms K chose to take the 
PPI, knowing she didnt  have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Ms K any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to her. This means FICL  didnt  have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Ms K. But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed  to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms K about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. And the policy couldve paid out for longer than shes told us she wouldve 
been entitled to full sick pay. So it looks like it couldve been  useful  to her.
Ref: DRN46040972my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019. 
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4604097