K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained that Nationwide Building  Society unfairly turned down a claim that 
shed made.
background
Mrs B bought a suit for her husband  when they were on holiday using her Nationwide credit 
card. She made two transactions  one for the fabric,  and the other for the tailoring of the 
suit. Mrs B was unhappy with the quality of the suit. She said that the fabric  wasnt 100% 
wool as promised. Mrs B failed to resolve  things directly with the merchant. The merchant 
maintained that the fabric  was 100% wool. It gave  Mrs B details of where it sourced the 
fabric and invited her to provide evidence that it wasnt 100% wool.  Mrs B didnt agree with 
the merchants  responses, so she put in a claim with Nationwide.
Nationwide initially told Mrs B that shed have to send the suit back  to the merchant for it to 
raise a chargeback.  Mrs B did this, but the chargeback wasnt  successful  because  the 
merchant defended the claim. The suit was then returned to Mrs B.
Nationwide also considered the claim under section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  
(CCA). It turned it down  because it didnt think the necessary  relationship for a claim to be 
considered under section 75 existed. Nationwide did, however, agree to cover  the postage 
costs for the suit.
Mrs B has complained about Nationwides handling  of her claim and she referred it to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said that the goods were 
for Mrs Bs husband and noted that he was named on the supply contract. She said that the 
necessary relationship for a claim to be considered under section 75 didnt exist. So she 
didnt think it was unfair that Nationwide declined the claim. 
Mrs B didnt agree. She said she bought the suit as a gift. And she reiterated that it was not 
of satisfactory quality. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint that said:
Mrs B paid for the suit using her credit card. And our service is able to consider complaints 
about claims raised with credit card providers. 
Under certain circumstances, consumers  can ask their card issuer to reverse  payments 
made on their card  by raising  a chargeback.  Individual card schemes have their own rules  
that the card issuer  (in this case Nationwide)  have to apply. The chargeback process  doesnt  
give consumers legal  rights and it isnt guaranteed to result in a refund. It depends on what 
the merchant  says in response to the request  the card issuer submits.  So Ive firstly  thought 
about Nationwides handling of the chargeback. 
Nationwide initially assisted Mrs B in raising a chargeback for the payment shed made  for 
the suit material.  Mrs Bs chargeback was ultimately unsuccessful  because the merchant 
defended the claim.  Nationwide did, however, decide to cover the cost of the postage for the 
suit. And given the conflicting nature of the views  on the suit material,  based  on what it knew 
at the time, I dont  think it needed to have  done any more. I think  Nationwide handled the 
chargeback fairly. 
Ref: DRN49770002When considering  if Nationwide acted fairly in declining  Mrs Bs claim, I take into account the 
relevant law. So in Mrs Bs case, section 75 of the CCA makes Nationwide responsible for a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier under certain conditions. One of 
those conditions is that there must  be a direct  relationship between the debtor (Mrs B) the 
creditor (Nationwide) and the supplier (the merchant).
A debtor is defined  under the CCA as the individual  receiving credit under a consumer credit 
agreement. So in this case,  thats  Mrs B because she entered  into the agreement with Nationwide. 
Even though  Mrs Bs husband is an additional cardholder,  it doesnt make him a debtor. 
The suit that was made was solely for Mrs Bs husbands use. His name is the only name on 
the contract. Mrs B says that she bought the suit as a gift because her husband  paid for the 
holiday. So Ive thought  about the financial arrangement.  But its important to note Mrs B 
didnt enter  into the contract with the merchant so, in that sense, she doesnt  have a 
relationship with it. And due to the nature of the goods being supplied,  I dont think  it relates 
to her joint affairs. Therefore, in the circumstances, I think Mrs Bs husband was the sole 
contracting party with the merchant. 
Taking into account my reasoning above, Im not persuaded  the necessary debtor-creditor-
supplier arrangement exists for a valid claim against Nationwide.  
Therefore, Im not persuaded Nationwide acted unfairly when turning down  Mrs Bs 
section 75 claim. And I dont think it acted unreasonably when handling  the chargeback. So, 
while I know itll disappoint Mrs B, I dont propose  to direct Nationwide  to take any action. 
 
Neither Mrs B nor Nationwide  submitted any further  evidence for me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no one has sent in any further  evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  set out in my provisional  decision  and summarised  above.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4977000