K820x#14complaint
Mr R and Ms W say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  them a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr R and Ms W took out a joint mortgage  through Lloyds in 1998  and at the same time PPI 
was added to their account.  This was done  at a meeting  with the bank. The policy  covered  
Mr R only for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr R and Ms W didnt accept our adjudicators 
view, so their complaint  was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr R and Ms Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know exactly what was discussed  when the insurance was added. But, looking at the 
paperwork Mr R and Ms W signed  at the time, I can see they completed  a separate PPI 
application form to say they wanted  PPI and they wanted cover for Mr R only.  So, I think it 
likely that PPI was discussed and Mr R and Ms W told Lloyds they wanted the cover and 
thats why it was added. I can understand why Mr and Ms W may not remember  it that way 
now after so much time.
Lloyds recommended Mr R and Ms W take PPI, so it had to consider whether it was suitable 
for them. In addition, it had to give them  information that was clear,  fair and not misleading  
about the PPI so that they could make an informed choice about whether it was right for 
them and they wanted to buy it. If there was a problem  with the sale,  then I need to consider 
whether I think Mr R and Ms W have lost out because of that. 
Only Mr R was covered under the policy. But, as this was a joint mortgage,  Ive taken into 
account Ms Ws circumstances  too to decide if PPI was suitable for them. 
I cant see that this policy  was unsuitable for Mr R. Ill explain why.
Mr R appeared eligible to take out PPI given his circumstances; 
I cant see that it was inappropriate for the policy to be taken out in 
Mr Rs name  only;
Mr R said he wouldnt have got any sick pay through his work. Ms W said she was 
working, and was eligible to get sick pay, six months at full pay and six months  at 
half. But, without  Mr Rs income  it may have been difficult for them  to meet their 
mortgage repayments and usual household expenditure.  So, I think PPI couldve 
provided them with a valuable benefit given what was at stake - their home. 
They said they had some savings, around six months worth of pay. If Mr R was too 
sick to work or made unemployed unexpectedly  the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 
12 months per successful claim. So, I think this couldve provided them with a 
Ref: DRN46189162valuable benefit.  If Mr R wasnt working  it couldve been difficult financially and 
having the policy in place  wouldve allowed them to use their savings to meet  their 
other household expenses. 
I cant see that Mr R wouldve been  affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover, so I dont  think  having  better information about  these things  wouldve  
made any difference to their decision to take out PPI. Mr R  likely couldve benefitted 
from everything the policy offered; and
The premium was paid monthly so they couldve cancelled PPI at any time without 
losing out financially.  They  didnt have to pay interest on the premiums. I cant see 
that the policy was unaffordable. 
Its possible the bank  couldve  given Mr R and Ms W clearer  information, particularly about  
the costs and benefits. But, for the reasons  explained, I think  they wouldve likely still taken 
out the policy because of the protection it afforded them and it appeared suitable for their 
needs and affordable.
Ive taken into account everything that Mr R and Ms W have said,  including that Mr R was 
made redundant a few times and they didnt claim on the policy because they were unaware  
they had it, but this doesnt change my view. I think it wouldve been clear  to them at the 
outset that they had PPI because they completed the paperwork to take it out and Lloyds 
sent them paperwork, including their insurance  policy which included details of who was 
covered and how much they were paying each month for the cover.  So, I dont think Mr R 
and Ms W have  lost out because of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 June  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4618916