K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limited used  outdated and inappropriate 
inputs to calculate the mortality charges required  on her life insurance plan. This resulted in 
excessive charges but it refused to reduce the premiums accordingly.  She says it had not 
provided full information about the plan which has built up a £50,000 balance.
background
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel her complaint  should  be upheld.  She said Aviva 
had set out how it decided on the mortality charges and there  was no evidence  to suggest 
this process was wrong. Further,  it was not for this service to seek  to intervene in how a 
business managed its operations when it came  to issues like this.
She also did not believe Aviva was required  to provide any further information about  its 
internal actuarial calculations.
She said that the policy was designed  to try and build up a savings fund so there was 
nothing inherently  suspect about Mrs S fund having  a £50,000 value at present. She noted 
that the cost of cover could easily increase in future, thereby reducing  the fund value and 
even the need for premium rises. But Mrs S could choose to reduce  her premiums in the 
short term to reduce the fund value if she chose.
Mrs S did not accept the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to review  her 
case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons. I am also satisfied  that 
Avivas Final  Response Letter  gave  a detailed explanation of the way the policy  works  and 
the various factors contributing to mortality and other charges, as well as the reviewability of 
the premiums.
In this case it is important  to note that an independent financial advisor recommended  this 
policy to Mrs S so it is they who were  responsible  for ensuring  she understood the way the 
policy worked, including the overall charges and the reviewability of the premiums. Avivas 
responsibility is solely to manage the policy fairly  in line with the terms and conditions. 
Adjusting mortality predictions (and therefore charges) over time is something it is entitled  to 
do.
I have seen no evidence  to suggest  that it has not done this. 
I acknowledge that Mrs S has made a series of detailed points about Avivas  calculations, 
particularly concerning appropriate  mortality  rate figures, and I have not addressed these. 
However, it is not my role to question Avivas  internal calculations or its decision about  what  
premium levels it decides  are necessary to sustain a policys  value. 
Mrs S premiums  have resulted in a healthy surplus pot at times but despite this premiums 
have still had to increase  at review dates. This simply means that Avivas  projections of what 
Ref: DRN42634322is needed to sustain the premiums going  forward can only be estimates of future  investment 
returns and mortality rates. Overall,  Aviva appears to be operating Mrs S reviewability life 
policy along the same lines as other providers, reviewing its sustainability  as required.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4263432