K820x#14complaint
Mr I has complained about Skyfire Insurance Company Limiteds handling  of his car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Skyfire includes their agents.
In bringing this complaint Mr I has been  assisted by his brother. But, for ease, I will refer to 
his brothers comments made on his behalf  as being  Mr Is comments.
background
On 7 January  2018, Mr I had an accident.  Mr Is car policy was with Skyfire  but he wasnt 
driving his own car at the time. He was driving  a friends car under the driving  other cars 
extension on his policy. The other drivers car was a total loss and its driver claimed against 
Mr Is policy  blaming Mr I for the accident. Mr I said the other  driver  was at fault.
The terms of Mr Is policy meant  that when driving other cars Skyfire would only deal with 
third party claims. That meant  Skyfire  didnt have to pay to repair  or replace  the car Mr I was 
driving.
Although Skyfires obligation was only to deal with third party  claims, they still had to 
investigate the claim  before deciding how to deal with it. Mr I told Skyfire early  on that he had 
instructed his own solicitor to claim against the other  driver.  Mr Is claim was for the damage 
to the car he was driving and for injury he suffered. Mr I said he didnt  want his own claim 
prejudiced so he told Skyfire not to accept liability on his behalf and not to settle the claim.
Skyfire told Mr I that if they did settle the claim it would be done  so on what  is known as a 
without prejudice  (WOP) basis. That meant that if Skyfire paid the other drivers claim Mr I 
could still take legal  action against  the other driver  in court.  Thats because while Skyfire 
would pay the other  drivers claim, they would not admit that Mr I was to blame for the 
accident.
But despite  assuring Mr I that they would only settle the claim on a WOP basis and also 
telling the other drivers insurer the same, Skyfire  admitted liability in full and paid the other  
drivers claim. Mr I complained. Skyfire apologised saying they had made a mistake  but they 
said it made no difference because he had no realistic prospect of winning a claim in court 
as he was to blame for the accident.  But in acknowledgement of their mistake,  Skyfire  
offered Mr I £250 compensation.
Mr I didnt think that was fair so he brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into it. She felt that Skyfire  had dealt with Mr I fairly because  they got a 
legal opinion  from a barrister who also said Mr I had no realistic prospect of success if he 
took the case to court.  As a result, even though Skyfire had made  a mistake it meant that 
Mr I didnt suffer a loss. As Mr I didnt agree with our investigator,  the complaint  has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr I, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN41456352Ive considered all of Mr Is points very carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus on what  I 
consider to be the key issues. 
Under the policy, Skyfire  have the discretion to settle claims as they feel appropriate without  
the need to get Mr Is agreement. But I expect them to exercise  that discretion in a fair and 
reasonable way. Skyfire  are experienced in dealing with claims of this nature. And having 
seen the evidence Skyfire relied on, I think their conclusion that Mr I was to blame for the 
accident was reasonable.
But while Skyfire had the right to settle  the claim by paying for the other  car, they should  
have done so on a WOP basis  as they told Mr I they would. It is usual  practice in cases  like 
this for insurance companies to settle claims on a WOP basis even where they feel the 
policyholder is fully to blame for the accident. That way the door is left open for the 
policyholder if they want to take action against the other driver. In this case  Mr I clearly 
believed the other driver was negligent which caused the accident. But Skyfires actions 
deprived Mr I of the opportunity to take his own legal action.
Skyfire clearly made a mistake so we have to look to see what the impact, if any, of that 
mistake was. Did it result  in Mr I suffering a loss? Mr I said it did. He said Skyfires mistake 
deprived him of successfully claiming  against  the other driver in court.  And that has meant 
he cannot get the other driver to pay for the damage to the car he was driving and he wont  
get compensated for the injury he suffered.
Once our service became involved Skyfire followed our investigators  suggestion  that they 
get an independent barristers legal  opinion as to what prospects of success Mr I had were  
his claim to go before a court.  The legal  opinion also considered  whether or not there was a 
likelihood of the court apportioning fault to both drivers.  Claims of negligence of this kind can 
result in a court finding  each party was 50% to blame,  or in different proportions,  for example 
70% - 30%, 60% - 40% and so on.
I can see that the barrister  Skyfire  asked to consider the evidence  had around 30 years  
experience and is considered an expert  in his field. He concluded that, in all the 
circumstances of the case,  because Mr I drove  across the path of the other car that was 
correctly proceeding  on an established main road and had the right of way, Mr I would be 
held liable  for the accident. Mr I disagreed and said the opinion  was flawed because there 
were a number of factual  errors and missing evidence. Mr I said the barrister couldnt 
properly consider the issues  without the locus report; the barrister was mistaken  in saying 
the road was a 40mph  road whereas it was 30mph; and he was mistaken about the actual 
road layout   it wasnt a dual carriage way it was a single lane residential road.
In response to Mr Is comments the barrister  provided a second opinion addressing Mr Is 
concerns, but his opinion didnt change. The barrister said that even if it was a 30mph road 
Mr I would still be held at fault. He also said he was able to give an opinion without a locus  
report. 
Our investigator told Mr I on numerous  occasions  that he could get his own barristers  legal 
opinion to challenge the opinion  provided by Skyfire.  And despite  Mr I saying he would do 
that nothing materialised.  I think Mr I had ample opportunity  to do that as his complaint has 
been with our service  for over a year.
Ref: DRN41456353But Mr I was assisted by a solicitor who did give an opinion that said Mr I had over 51% 
chance of success  were the case to go to court. The solicitor also said: It is evident that the 
third party driver was speeding however,  we would need to instruct a Forensic Analysts  to 
provide a forensic report based on the damage  of both vehicles and locus of the accident 
and surrounding  areas. Mr Is contention  was that the other driver intentionally drove into 
him and was speeding. And his solicitor  accepted  there wasnt  any evidence, other than 
Mr Is belief, that the other driver  was speeding. So, I think  evidence that the other driver was 
speeding might  have helped Mr Is claim. Its therefore not clear  to me why such a report  
wasnt obtained despite Mr Is solicitor considering it necessary.
Ultimately, Skyfire preferred the legal opinion of the barrister over the opinion  of Mr Is 
solicitor. And Skyfire considered all the available evidence and circumstances of the 
accident. I think the independent barristers opinion carries more weight than the opinion of 
the solicitor Mr I instructed; so I think Skyfires decision to settle the claim was reasonable. 
And I dont  think their mistake  has caused  Mr I a loss given the legal opinion  of the barrister 
said he had little chance of succeeding  if the case went  to court.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or reject 
my decision  before 28 June 2020.  
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4145635