K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2005 with a 
loan. The loan included  an amount to pay for the policy.  Mr D says Northern Bank  Limited 
(NBL) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because and Ill explain why. 
Mr D says he was led to believe that he was more likely to get the loan if he took the PPI and 
he wouldnt  have taken  PPI had he known it was optional. But NBL says it wouldve made 
the optional nature of it clear to him. This policy was sold on the phone  followed by a written 
credit agreement. NBL no longer has a recording of the call, but given how long ago this 
policy was sold, thats not unreasonable. But where  there is a dispute like this, and there is 
limited information available, I have to decide  what I think  is more likely based on all the 
evidence that is available  - this includes Mr Ds testimony as well as any documentary 
evidence.  
NBL has provided a copy of Mr Ds credit agreement  which  had a separate section for PPI. 
Customers had the option of ticking the Yes box to add PPI and the NO box to decline it. On 
Mr Ds form, the Yes box has been ticked and he has signed right beneath this to confirm the 
selection. This is in addition to signing a separate section for the loan itself.  So it looks  like 
the PPI was presented as optional and Mr D did have the chance  to decline it if he didnt 
want it. 
Based on what Ive seen,  whilst Ive carefully  thought about what  Mr D has said and I 
appreciate his strength of feeling  regrading this, I think its more likely that NBL made  it clear  
that Mr D didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. 
NBL recommended  the PPI to Mr D so it had to check the PPI was right for him  and based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For example he was 
eligible for the policy and he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
policy. 
Mr D told us he had 6 months full followed by 6 months half sick pay provided by his 
employer. Hes also mentioned other  employee benefits such as redundancy pay and death 
in service benefit. He had some savings as well as a car he couldve sold.  He adds that his 
mum and girlfriend couldve helped him. 
But this policy wouldve paid out on top of Mr Ds employee benefits. It couldve paid out for 
the remaining  term of the loan if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness   so 
potentially longer than full his sick pay wouldve lasted.  And it provided  cover for up to 12 
months if he became  unemployed.  Having  the policy left his other means available for him to 
use on other essential expenditure. And while I have no doubt his mum and girlfriend 
wouldve wanted to help him, their ability to help wouldve depended on their own 
Ref: DRN40989892circumstances at the time which  couldve  changed.  Death in service benefit does not provide 
the same  type of cover as PPI. 
And I havent seen  anything that suggests it was unaffordable at the time he took it. So, 
overall, I think he couldve found the policy useful.  
Its possible the information NBL gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Which means NBL doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But NBL has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
NBL got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  NBL didnt tell Mr D, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, NBL has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4098989