K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  HSBC UK Bank  Plc wrongly  charged them  an early repayment 
charge when they redeemed an existing mortgage and took out a new one with the bank.
background
In 2013 Mr and Mrs B took out a repayment mortgage for around  £69,000  with HSBC UK 
Bank Plc (HSBC) with a term of 25 years, (the first mortgage).  They had a series  of fixed 
interest rate products.  In 2017 they took out a fixed interest rate product at around 1.7% 
which was still running when they decided  to move house in 2018. 
 
In 2018 Mr and Mrs B took out a new repayment  mortgage with HSBC,  (the new mortgage). 
The new mortgage  was for significantly more than the first mortgage, at around  £187,000, 
with a term of 25 years.  Mr and Mrs B had an initial two year fixed  interest  rate product at 
around 1.9%  for the new mortgage.
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy they had to pay HSBC an early repayment charge (ERC), 
(sometimes referred to as an early  repayment fee), when they redeemed the first mortgage 
and that HSBC has refused to refund the charge.  They  say information HSBC gave them 
with their redemption  quotation suggests the ERC shouldnt  have been  paid. HSBC didnt 
uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about this so they brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  think HSBC  had done  anything wrong.  Ive reviewed everything afresh 
to come to a final decision. For reasons  Ill explain,  I agree with our investigators  view. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to consider  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in light of the terms and conditions of Mr 
and Mrs Bs mortgage. The terms and conditions explained Mr and Mrs B would have to pay 
an ERC in the circumstances  set out in their mortgage offer.
The mortgage offer Mr and Mrs B received  in 2013  explained an ERC would be payable  if 
they repaid their mortgage during the period  of any fixed  rate product and the amount of the 
ERC would depend on when, during that period, they repaid the mortgage.
The mortgage offer also explained  if they moved house during the fixed  rate period, the 
existing mortgage  would  have to be repaid. But, provided certain  conditions  were satisfied, 
HSBC would lend them up to the balance of their existing mortgage  on a new mortgage at 
the same  fixed rated for the remainder of the fixed rate period. If HSBC  offered to lend them 
more than that, the additional lending would be offered  at the then current  rates  HSBC  might 
have available. 
The later offers Mr and Mrs B received  for fixed rate products in 2015 and 2017 set out 
broadly the same information.
The terms and conditions  of the mortgage also explained  if Mr and Mrs B moved house 
during the period of a fixed rate product  and paid the ERC, but then bought another  house 
and HSBC agreed to finance them by giving them a new loan, and the money for the new 
Ref: DRN43453112loan was used  to buy that other house  within  six months of the date they paid the ERC, it 
would refund them either
the full amount of the ERC if HSBC lent them the same amount as the balance  of 
their loan when  they repaid the loan at the same fixed rate for the remainder of the 
fixed rate period;  or
a proportion of the ERC if HSBC lent them less than the amount  of that balance at 
the same  fixed rate for the remainder of the fixed rate period.
I think it was clear these provisions would apply if Mr and Mrs B took out a new mortgage  
with HSBC at a future date, after theyd paid the ERC. That didnt happen here.  Mr and Mrs 
B took out the new mortgage, redeemed the first mortgage, and had to pay the ERC at the 
same time.
In 2017 Mr and Mrs B switched to a new fixed interest rate product at around  1.7% which 
was due to end in around  June 2019.  Mr and Mrs B were looking to move  house in 2018.  
Because they were selling during the period of the fixed rate product, unless  HSBC  agreed 
Mr and Mrs B could  port their interest rate product to a new mortgage, they had to pay the 
ERC.
Mr and Mrs B applied  on line for a mortgage  in May 2018. They say they tried to apply to 
port their interest rate and understood they wouldve  had two mortgages running  at the same 
time if theyd  managed  to get their application through. Broadly speaking,  this wouldve been 
the effect of porting their interest rate product to a new mortgage on the balance  they owed 
on the first mortgage for the remainder of the term of that product, and taking out the 
additional borrowing  they needed  at the then current rates.  So I think they understood the 
terms and conditions of the first mortgage  and how the ERC worked.
Mr and Mrs B say they had some  technical difficulties with their on-line  application which 
they raised with HSBC.  But as they didnt  want  to lose the house they wanted to buy, they 
decided to go ahead without resolving these. They applied for a new 25 year mortgage for 
the whole  amount they needed to buy their new house at a higher interest rate than they 
were paying  on the first mortgage. They didnt go ahead with an application to port their 
ongoing interest rate product to part of their new mortgage  (the amount of the balance  on 
their first mortgage) as they couldve done.  
HSBC provided Mr and Mrs Bs conveyancing solicitors with a redemption  quotation  in June 
2018 shortly before they were  due to complete on the purchase  of their new house. 
The quotation showed an ERC  was due and in its covering letter  HSBC  explained, in 
numbered paragraphs,  how the ERC applied. The paragraphs in the letter  arent terms and 
conditions themselves. So its important to read the letter bearing  in mind the terms and 
conditions. The letter set out the following:
4.0 Fixed interest rate Early Repayment Fees
The fixed  rate term expires  on;
30 June 2019
Ref: DRN434531134.1 If your customer is taking a new fixed rate mortgage on repayment of this 
loan:
If the customer is transferring the fixed interest  rate to a new HSBC Bank mortgage 
then the Early Repayment Fee wont apply  provided  the new loan is drawn  down at 
the same  time as the existing  loan is repaid and is for at least the same amount and 
repayable over the same term as the existing loan.
In this case, when  all our quoted lending has been  repaid, well release any security 
we no longer require. 
If the new fixed rate mortgage is for a lower amount, please send the quoted Early 
repayment charge  and well refund a proportionate amount.
4.2
4.3 If your customer is taking a new fixed rate mortgage in the future
Any Early  repayment  charge will be refunded if the customer will be taking a new 
fixed rate mortgage  with us within six months  of the redemption of the existing loan, 
providing it is for at least the same amount, fixed rate and term as previously held.  If 
the new borrowing  is for less we will refund a proportionate amount of the Early 
repayment charge.
HSBC says paragraph 4.1 applies to Mr and Mrs Bs situation and that a refund of an ERC is 
only considered  when the fixed  rate from the old mortgage is transferred to the new one. 
Mr and Mrs B say they fall within 4.3 and HSBC should refund the ERC  because:
they took out a new fixed rate mortgage  after, but within  six months, of redeeming  
their existing  loan 
it was for at least the same amount  the new mortgage was much higher that the 
first mortgage
it was for at least the same fixed rate  the interest rate they are currently  paying  is 
higher
it was for at least the same term as previously  held 
I think paragraph 4.1 applies to Mr and Mrs Bs situation. As Ive said,  Mr and Mrs B took out 
the new mortgage, redeemed the first mortgage,  and had to pay the ERC at the same  time. 
They werent transferring  the interest rate they had on their first mortgage to the new 
mortgage. So I think HSBC was entitled  to charge  the ERC  in line with the terms and 
conditions Ive explained above.
I dont think 4.3 applies  to Mr and Mrs Bs situation. Although I think  the redemption 
quotation couldve explained the underlying terms and conditions more  clearly, I think  
paragraph 4.3 referred to that part of the terms and conditions that explained when an ERC 
could be refunded if Mr and Mrs B made an application in the future to port their interest rate. 
That didnt happen here. 
Ref: DRN43453114I think Mr and Mrs B knew when  they applied for the mortgage  on-line  they would have to 
pay the ERC. They knew from the figures set out in the redemption  quotation  HSBC  was 
expecting them to pay the ERC.  And although Mr and Mrs B did query this with HSBC before 
they completed the purchase of their new house,  they went  ahead knowing theyd have to 
pay it. So, bearing everything in mind,  I dont think Mr and Mrs B were disadvantaged in any 
way.
Mr and Mrs B argue  HSBC wouldnt have  suffered  any loss when they redeemed  their 
mortgage within the period of their fixed interest  rate product because  they took out a new 
mortgage for a higher amount, so HSBC  shouldnt have charged them an ERC. I dont agree 
the ERC  shouldnt have  been charged  and Ill explain  why. 
In very simple terms, lenders incur costs  when they raise funds to lend to their borrowers 
and in carrying out their lending  activities. They recover those costs from their lending.  In line 
with relevant rules  they estimate across their portfolio of mortgages  how many will end 
before their fixed rates expire and build in to each mortgage an ERC  to cover the costs to 
the lender of those mortgages  ending early. So the ERC in Mr and Mr Bs mortgage  wouldnt 
have been designed to reflect any losses HSBC incurred when they paid off their individual 
mortgage and its possible the losses in their case were less  or more  than the ERC 
Mr and Mrs B paid.    Theres  no evidence to suggest  HSBC  has charged more  than it should 
so I dont think HSBC  has done anything wrong.
Bearing everything in mind I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 November 2019.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4345311