complaint
Ms J complains about the payment protection insurance (PPI) sold to her by
Leeds Building Society with her mortgage.
background
Ms J took out a mortgage with Leeds Building Society in 2000. PPI was added to her account.  
The policy covered Ms J for unemployment benefit only.
The adjudicator noticed that Ms J had already complained to this service about  the 
mis-sale of this policy. In 2013, Ms J received a decision not upholding her complaint.
The adjudicator did consider whether Ms J was eligible  to have some of the commission she 
paid on the PPI premiums refunded. Leeds  Building  Society said it had previously  refunded 
Ms J some commission,  but that the cheque hadnt  been cashed. It said it was prepared to 
re-issue the cheque. Our adjudicator considered  this a fair way to resolve this matter and did 
not uphold Ms Js complaint.
Ms J disagreed and asked for her case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2013, this service  issued a decision on Ms Js complaint about the mis-sale of this PPI 
policy. As this service has already issued a decision about the mis-sale of this policy,  I havent 
reconsidered it here.
But Leeds Building Society did pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms J because:
 When the policy was sold, Leeds Building  Society expected to get a high level of 
commission and profit  share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told 
Ms J about that. Because Leeds  Building  Society didnt  tell Ms J, that was unfair.
 To put that right, Leeds  Building Society paid back  the amount of commission  and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium. I think that was fair in this case.
Ref: DRN4279148K820x#14The cheque Leeds Building Society issued to repay the commission wasnt cashed. Leeds 
Building Society has agreed  to replace this cheque.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Leeds  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Ms J.
But, Leeds Building Society does have to pay back to Ms J any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. It has agreed to issue  a 
replacement cheque to do this. So, I dont award any further  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4279148