K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Intelligent Finance (IF)  gave  her the 
wrong advice when it  told her that she could capitalise the arrears  on her mortgage  but it 
then refused to let her do so.
background
Ms C has a mortgage with IF. Ms Cs account  fell into arrears  and she wanted to capitalise 
the arrears. Ms C says that she got bad advice from IF which  meant that she didnt clear the 
arrears which  affected her credit record. IF said that it gave consideration to capitalising  Ms 
Cs arrears in January  2018 but after doing  an affordability assessment, it was unable to 
offer this change to the mortgage.  IF didnt think it had done anything wrong in how it 
handled Ms Cs account whilst it was in arrears.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he thought that IF 
had acted correctly.  He said that as a responsible lender IF was right to do an affordability 
assessment before making a decision  to capitalise the arrears  and that it would review  its 
decision if Ms Cs circumstances changed.  Ms C disagees saying that she didnt pay off her 
arrears because IF told her she could capitalise them.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms C brings this complaint because she believes she was told that she could  capitalise  her 
arrears but when she applied to do so, IF refused to do so. Ms C says that if she had been 
told that her arrears were  unlikely to be considered for capitalisation that when she had a 
lump-sum payment, she would have  paid off the arrears. Ms C also recalls  being told that 
she would  have to pass a 7% stress test. Not being able to capitalise the arrears earlier 
meant that Ms Cs credit record has been affected.
I have listened  to a number  of calls related to this complaint. There  is a call dated the 20 
February 2017. In that call Ms C said that she had recently received compensation and was 
in a position to pay off the arrears. But Ms C felt that if she paid off the arrears  then,  she may 
not be able to pay the contractual monthly payments in the future. I noted that the IF adviser 
said that it would be in Ms Cs best interest  to pay off the arrears  as it would affect her credit 
file. Ms C said that she felt it might  make little difference to her credit  file as it would  already  
show that the account was in arrears. Ms C indicated  that she would think about whether  
she would  pay off the arrears with her compensation money. There  was then a discussion 
between Ms C and the IF adviser about  how Ms C might be able to access  her credit file and 
the IF adviser gave  her the name  of a company to do so.
I also listened to a call dated 27 February 2018.  Ms C mentions that about a year earlier  she 
had got £9,000 and could have paid off the arrears at the time but she thought  that it was 
better that she waited  6 months to make her contractual  monthly payments and then apply to 
capitalise the arrears. I note that Ms C said that she was told that there was a possibility that 
she could capitalise her arrears but not that her application to do so would definitely 
succeed. Ms C mentions  in this call that she understood that her application would be stress 
Ref: DRN41229522tested like a new mortgage application. But Ms C appeared to be saying not that IF told her 
that but that IF didnt deny  her assumptions.
By listening to the calls I can hear that Ms C has had a number of issues with IF over recent 
years and that this has been a stressful time for her. But it doesnt  seem to me that IF has 
done anything  wrong as regards this complaint. In February 2017, Ms C was advised what  
the arrears were and what the consequences of not paying the arrears were  and made  a 
decision not to pay off the arrears although the IF adviser informed her of the consequences  
on her credit  file. There was no mention in that call of capitalisation  so I cant agree with Ms 
C that she decided  not to pay off the arrears  because she was told that she could capitalise 
the arrears on the mortgage. Nor is there mention of the stress test that Ms C refers to. 
It would seem that sometime later that Ms C was told that if she made her contractual  
monthly payments  for a period, she could apply  to capitalise the arrears. But Ms C agrees 
that she was told this was a possibility and not a certainty. So, I cant  fairly say that IF misled 
Ms C to believe  that her application for capitalisation would be successful or that it was 
reasonable for her not to pay off the arrears on the basis  that they would be capitalised.  So, 
for the above  reasons  I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4122952