K820x#14complaint
Miss T has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has failed to offer her 
help and support  while  shes been in financial difficulties.
background
Miss T has a mortgage with Halifax which has for some years  been in arrears.  
In 2015 Miss T brought a complaint to us. She was unhappy at the way Halifax had dealt 
with arrears. An ombudsman issued a final decision on that complaint on 19 June 2015. He 
thought the way Halifaxs customer service  had been unsatisfactory  in the way it had 
contacted Miss T, causing her distress. He awarded compensation of £500.  But he was 
satisfied that Halifax  had done  its best to work with Miss T to reach a solution about  her 
arrears.
In February 20167 Ms T agreed  that her arrears  would  be consolidated, as shed maintained  
the monthly payment as well as making additional payment towards the arrears.  This 
resulted in an increase in the monthly repayments to £612.  Unfortunately,  although Miss T 
was able to make the payments for two months, arrears of about £15,000 have now 
accrued.
Miss T is unhappy that Halifax  hasnt been able to extend the term, put her on another  
mortgage product  or reduce her payments. She is currently paying £100  per month, which  is 
a substantial shortfall on the monthly  payment of £612. As a result,  the arrears are 
continuing to increase.
Halifax didnt uphold  the complaint, so Miss T brought it to us. An investigator  considered  it, 
but she didnt  think it should be upheld. The investigator explained  to Miss T that, in her 
circumstances, she didnt  think Halifax was able to offer her a new product, or provide a 
mortgage which would accommodate the amount she was able to pay each  month. She 
went through all the options available to help a borrower in arrears,  and explained to Miss T 
why she didnt think it was possible for Halifax to offer these to her.
Miss T asked for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I confirm Ive read everything  provided by Miss T and Halifax, but Ive set out whats  
happened in rather  less detail than has been presented. No discourtesys intended by that. 
Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something,  it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material  to the outcome of the 
complaint. Im also mindful that the investigator set out in some  detail in her letter dated 18 
October 2018 whats happened. Both parties  have a copy  of her letter,  so there  is no need 
for me to repeat the history of the complaint here.
But what  I am considering  is whether or not I think Halifax has treated Miss T fairly, now 
shes fallen into financial difficulty again. The Mortgages and Home  Finance: Conduct of 
Ref: DRN45924452Business Sourcebook  (known as MCOB) sets out at MCOB 13 what  lenders are required to 
do to help borrowers in arrears. 
Under MCOB 13 Halifax is required  to explore ways to resolve an arrears  situation, 
especially if the problem  that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-
term and capable of being resolved.
For long-term difficulties, Halifax must  also look at other ways  to help, such as transferring a 
mortgage from capital  and interest  repayment to interest-only, deferring interest for a period 
of time or capitalisation of arrears.  Balanced  against that is the lenders  obligation to ensure 
that any arrangement  is affordable and sustainable. 
When the arrears were capitalised, it was on the basis of this being a long-term solution to 
the financial problems  Miss T had encountered in the past.  But within  three months, shed 
begun to miss payments  and hasnt been  able to maintain anything other than a token 
payment each month towards the mortgage  for several years.  
I fully appreciate this has been a very stressful time for Miss T; her situation has been  very 
difficult, through circumstances beyond her control.  But overall I think  Halifax has carefully 
considered which options are available, and has also been mindful of its obligation to act as 
a responsible lender. Because the only options would be unaffordable  or outside its lending  
criteria, I dont think Halifax  has done anything wrong by not offering Miss T a new mortgage 
product.
I have considerable  sympathy for the situation  Miss T is in. But Im afraid there  are no 
options Halifax can offer her which would make this mortgage affordable,  either over the 
short-term or for the remainder of the mortgage  term. In the circumstances, I can only 
suggest Miss T contacts  her local authority housing office, Citizens Advice or Shelter for 
advice on her situation. 
my final decision
I am very sorry  to give Miss T such bad news,  but after taking everything into account, I am 
unable to uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4592445