K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that ERGO  Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) refused to pay their travel  
insurance claim. 
Mr and Mrs H will see that ERVs registered company name has changed slightly.  This 
doesnt affect the outcome of their complaint. 
My references to ERV include its agent.
background
In late June 2018 Mr and Mrs H booked a long haul holiday, and were due to be away  for a 
month from 22 September 2018.
In the second  week  of September  2018 Mrs Hs father sadly  died unexpectedly. The funeral 
couldnt take place until the second  week of October 2018, during Mr and Mrs Hs holiday.  
They contacted ERV to explain the position, and that they were  looking to interrupt their trip 
to return for the funeral  before resuming it again. They explained  this would result in a much 
lower claim than cancelling  the whole trip at a cost in excess of £12,500. ERV didnt give 
them a claim decision before they went  away.
Mr and Mrs H put in a claim for just under £4,000,  but ERV turned it down. It said the holiday 
was cancelled due to an insured persons medical  investigations that were underway  before 
they booked the holiday. ERV said this wasnt covered under the policy  terms. Mr H pointed 
out that the claim and medical condition  was for Mrs Hs father and that they didnt know 
about it until after theyd  booked the holiday and bought the insurance. They  came  to us.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. She said ERV should fairly pay the claim,  because 
Mr and Mrs H couldnt reasonably have foreseen theyd need  to make a claim under the 
policy. Theyd known  about  Mrs Hs fathers  hospital stay and another medical  concern, but 
not about the medical condition that led to the claim.  ERV didnt agree so the complaints 
come to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear of Mr and Mrs Hs loss.  
I think the fair outcome is for ERV to meet Mr and Mrs Hs claim. Ill explain why and in doing 
so Ill focus on what  I consider to be the main  issues.  
The policy includes  cover for cancellation,  curtailment and trip interruption  due to the death 
of a close relative. But it excludes any claim  arising  directly or indirectly from a pre-existing 
medical condition,  known to you prior to the commencement of the period  of cover or the 
booking of your trip (whichever is later), affecting any non travelling relative if:
a terminal diagnosis  has been received; 
they were on a waiting-list  or had knowledge  of the need for, surgery, inpatient 
treatment, or investigation at any hospital or clinic;
Ref: DRN45558202or during the 90 days immediately prior to the commencement of the period of cover 
or the booking  of your trip (which ever is later they had): required surgery, inpatient  
treatment or hospital consultations; or
required any form of treatment, or had a change to their prescribed medication,  or 
have been prescribed  a new medication.
ERV made  an unfortunate mistake in its final response letter when  it said that the claim was 
for cancellation due to an insured persons medical  condition. Mrs Hs father  wasnt insured 
under the policy.  Also Mr and Mrs H had told ERV about their own medical  conditions  and 
Im not aware that it asked them questions about any non travelling relative. 
In responding  to our adjudicators opinion letter ERV said that the claim just wasnt covered 
under the policy  terms. It said Mr and Mrs H knew that Mrs Hs father had had a short  
admission to hospital for fluid on his lungs in mid-June 2018,  before they booked  their trip 
and before theyd  taken  out the insurance.  He also had follow-up appointments. So ERV 
said it was entitled  not to pay the claim. 
But I can step outside the strict policy terms where I consider that to be fair and reasonable. 
And in this case I think its fair to do so and for ERV to pay Mr and Mrs Hs claim.
One of the issues  that I consider in deciding whether its fair for an insurer  to pay a claim, 
even if its not strictly  covered is whether a consumer could reasonably  have anticipated that 
they might  need  to make a claim under the policy. 
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs H reasonably didnt anticipate that theyd have to claim under 
the policy when  they booked their trip and took out the insurance. 
Mrs Hs father sadly died due to kidney cancer.  Mr and Mrs H say, and I accept, that he was 
a private man. They  knew about the hospital admission for fluid on his lungs, and that hed 
had a follow up appointment  for July 2018. The hospital letter  says that he was due to have 
another follow-up  appointment  in October  2018  for a suspected issue  with his kidney. But 
Mr and Mrs H didnt know about the kidney issue until after hed died. Theyd thought  he was 
having a non-urgent follow up for the lung condition.  Hed been discharged from hospital well 
before they booked  the holiday and insurance. They didnt think this would lead to 
cancellation of their trip.
Mrs Hs fathers  GP has confirmed on the medical certificate that Mrs H didnt know  about  
any terminal prognosis when she booked the trip. I accept her and Mr Hs evidence that they 
also didnt know about the CT scan  hed had when in hospital  for the lung condition.  The 
consultants letter said the kidney test results werent conclusive, and in any event  they didnt 
see that letter until after Mr Hs death.  Its fair for ERV to pay the claim.
Mr and Mrs H also took reasonable steps to keep their losses  to a minimum. They  could 
have cancelled their holiday  following  Mr Hs death,  and if theyd  done  so Id have said ERV 
should pay their full cancellation  claim. Their claim would have been for around £12,500 in 
total, and the cancellation  limit was £7,000 per insured  person. Instead  they contacted ERV 
and explained  their plans to interrupt  their trip to return to the UK for the funeral instead, 
resulting in a significantly  lower  claim of just under £4,000. Its difficult to see what  more they 
could have done both to explain  their decision in advance  and to reduce their claim  
effectively they acted as if they were uninsured.
Ref: DRN45558203So its fair for ERV to meet  their claim for the costs involved in interrupting  their trip and the 
five days they missed of their holiday for the round trip to the UK, subject to any applicable 
excess for cancellation. The policy limit for cancellation applies here rather than the trip 
interruption limit. This is because, as Ive said, Mr and Mrs H could have made a cancellation 
claim, but they minimised their losses by interrupting their trip instead.  ERV can apply any 
cancellation excess that applies under the policy terms.  In line with our usual awards ERV 
must add 8% simple  interest to the claim payment, as set out below.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. Within 28 days  of the date we send  it 
Mr and Mrs Hs acceptance of my final decision I require  ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to 
pay their claim, subject to any applicable  excess.  ERV must add interest* to the claim 
payment at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date they made  their claim to it to the 
date of settlement.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 September 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If ERV considers  that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs H how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr and 
Mrs H a certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4555820