K821x#15complaint
Miss A complains  that Prestige Asset Finance Limited (trading as Prestige Pawnbrokers) 
was irresponsible  to approve her loan.
background
Miss A took out a logbook  loan with Prestige on 7 February 2017. She borrowed £4,000 and 
needed to repay £729.33  per month for 12 months until 7 February 2018. The account  was 
settled on 21 February  2019.
Miss A says she was in financial difficulties when she applied for the loan. She says she was 
using the money  to pay essential bills and had to take out short-term  loans as she had no 
source of income  at the time to make the repayments. Miss A says Prestige did insufficient 
checks and she often  had to borrow money  from relatives to make  the payments. She says 
that every  time she missed a payment, bailiffs came to her door to try to take the car causing 
her to panic.  Miss A adds that once the loan was settled, Prestige failed to return the spare 
car key as it had been misplaced. She says this affected the resale  price  of the car.
Prestige says Miss A signed a declaration that the repayments were  affordable  and there 
was no indication that she was in financial difficulties, or that her employment  status  had 
changed, until after the loan had been  completed. It says when Miss A responded to contact 
regarding the non-payment of instalments, she regularly asked about a settlement figure 
which was not indicative of someone  in financial difficulty. It says that, had it been  made  
aware of Miss As financial difficulties, it would have handled her account differently. It 
offered Miss A £1,200  as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss A did not accept  the offer.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He found that Prestiges 
checks went far enough, but that the size of the repayment, relative to her income, was 
enough to indicate the repayments were unlikely  to be sustainable.  He said Prestige should 
refund interest  and charges  (plus 8% statutory interest) and remove any negative 
information from Miss As credit file. Our adjudicator  acknowledged that the offer to 
reimburse Miss A for the cost of the misplaced car key was still valid.
Prestige did not respond to the adjudicators assessment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when  Prestige lent to Miss A. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook  (CONC),  this meant  that Prestige needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford  to meet  its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner  over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.3.1G states that:
Ref: DRN432197221.In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more  than assessing  the customer's ability  to repay  the 
credit.
2.The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability  to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner  was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while  meeting  other  reasonable commitments;  without having  to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without  having to realise security or assets  (CONC 5.3.1G 
- 6) or without incurring or increasing  problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document  entitled 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. 
CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.)
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed  checks
the lower a persons income  (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the borrower  is required to make  payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.3.1G  4b: it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for 
its assessment of the customer's income  and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss As case, I have considered  the 
following questions:
Did Prestige complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  when assessing Miss 
As loan applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks  have shown? 
Did Prestige make  a fair lending decision?
Did Prestige act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
With regard to the first question, I can see Prestige asked Miss A about her income  and had 
a recent  bank statement, plus her tenancy agreement, as evidence  of both her income and 
expenditure. Im satisfied,  therefore, that Prestige did proportionate checks  in the context of 
Miss As loan application.
But, based on the evidence it had, I dont  find Prestige  made  a fair lending decision.  I say 
that because:
Ref: DRN43219723The loan was over a term of 12 months and Prestige needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable  over that period;
The bank  statement showed that Miss As most recent monthly income was £2,700, 
as compared with a declared  income  of £2,000,  but this figure is likely to have been 
variable because:
oMiss A said she was a self-employed  contractor;
oShe said some of her income was from selling  on an online auction  site;
Looking at Miss As expenditure in January 2017, her spend on rent, 
communications, travel, food and account fees totalled over £1,100;
Miss A was incurring  charges for an unarranged overdraft;
Based on the above, I consider it unlikely that Miss A would have been able to sustainably 
make repayments of £729.33  per month  because:
The monthly repayment was over £36%  of Miss As declared income;
Miss A had other  expenditure in the month,  not included  in the figure  of £1,100,  as 
well as transfers to and from another account in her name;
Even before taking  into account  any other expenditure,  Miss As disposable  income 
was around £900 per month, before the loan repayment;
Miss A wasnt managing her account  within its overdraft limit, which  may have been 
an indication she was already struggling with her finances.
Altogether Im satisfied  it was irresponsible for Prestige to have  approved Miss As loan, 
especially as the Finance  and Leasing Associations guidance in 2006 suggested that a 
consumer spending  more than 25% of their income on consumer  credit  could be an 
indication of someone experiencing financial difficulty. Indeed,  I note Miss A missed  her first 
three repayments on the loan.
Ive also considered whether Prestige acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way. I 
acknowledge Miss A says that bailiffs coming  to her door caused her to panic. Whilst  I 
sympathise with the situation in which Miss A found  herself, I havent  seen  any evidence to 
show Prestige did anything wrong by instructing the bailiffs when it did. I also accept that 
Prestige misplaced Miss As spare key, but I find its offer to reimburse Miss A for the cost of 
a replacement to be fair and reasonable.
In summary,  taking all the available evidence  into account, I find Prestige was irresponsible  
when it agreed to lend to Miss A, but that it didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in any other 
way.
Ref: DRN43219724my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Prestige Asset Finance Limited (trading as 
Prestige Pawnbrokers) should:
Add up the total amount of money Miss A received as a result of having  been given 
the loan. The repayments Miss A made should  be deducted from this capital amount;
oIf this results in Miss A having  paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded  along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were  made  until the date of settlement*);
Remove any negative  information recorded on Miss As credit file regarding  the loan;
Reimburse Miss A for a replacement key, as it has offered to do.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Prestige  to take off tax from this interest. Prestige  must  
give Miss A a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4321972