K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about his home  insurer Ageas Insurance Limited. He believes its 
offered him an unfairly low settlement for his water damage claim.
background
Mr S made a claim to Ageas after part of his home  was damaged by water. Ageas accepted  
the claim and asked for Mr S to provide it with measurements for the damaged area of 
ceiling once it had dried out. Mr S sent it an estimate for repairs totalling £1,492.64 (with no 
VAT detailed).
Ageas put the work detailed in the estimate through its costing system which looks at local 
rates available in the relevant area.  It said the average price  for this work to be done  in 
Mr Ss postcode was £947.81 (some VAT was accounted for but not on the whole price). It 
said if Mr Ss trader confirmed its quote covered all the work, it would pay him this figure less 
any applicable  excess.
Mr S was unhappy. He provided a second estimate that totalled the work at £1,631.75 plus 
VAT. Ageas said it wouldnt change  its position,  as far as it was concerned  the reasonable 
price of the work  Mr S needed to do was £947.81 and his estimates must be overpriced.
Mr S complained to us. Our investigator  said that Ageas offer had been  unfair.  He explained  
that given Mr S had two prices for work,  both significantly  higher than that calculated by 
Ageas, hed be unlikely to be able to get the work done for that lower  sum. He didnt think  
this would achieve the policy objective of putting  Mr S back in the position he would 
otherwise have been in if the damage  hadnt occurred. And he noted Ageas hadnt,  at any 
stage, offered to do the work itself. He said it should  settle the claim by either paying Mr S 
the lower of his two estimates minus  the excess or do the work, and pay him £150 
compensation.
Ageas objected. It said it was known for contractors to overprice once they know insurance 
cover is involved and so its fair for it to base  settlement on rates  generally  available  in the 
policyholders postcode  area. Ageas also said that Mr S could have accepted its offer and 
had the work  done  so any inconvenience  hed suffered living  in a damaged  house  wasnt  
of its causing.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im surprised by Ageas  response.  I have seen the national  price rating system used by 
insurers before but usually where it isnt possible for policyholders to obtain the cost of work 
for some reason. Or maybe where estimates  the policyholder has provided  include costs for 
un-insured work and the cost of the work  the insurer is liable for needs  calculating. 
I dont doubt some contractors overprice  when they know insurance  work is involved  but 
that doesnt mean a policyholder should be left paying the shortfall between the price he can 
get the work  done for and what the insurer  is willing to pay. Not unless the insurer has 
offered to do the work  and the policyholder has refused. That hasnt happened here. 
Ref: DRN41043802Im satisfied that Ageas will not be fully indemnifying Mr S if it pays  him only based on the 
rates it has calculated. Therefore Ageas must  fairly and reasonably  either pay Mr S the lower  
of his two estimates  minus the excess or offer to complete the work itself.
Ageas issued its final response  to Mr S on 12 June 2018. As Ive said above, I think its 
answer wasnt fair or reasonable. Im satisfied that Mr S has suffered distress  and 
inconvenience to the point  the final response was issued. He was expecting to get the work 
done but Ageas low offer meant this had to be delayed. Ageas didnt tell Mr S that he could 
accept its offer and still complain to the ombudsman. And the offer wasnt  enough for Mr S to 
get all the work done either.  Im satisfied that £150  compensation is fairly  and reasonably  
due to Mr S. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Ageas  Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr S £1,492.64 minus the policy excess; or
Offer  to complete the scoped for work to reinstate  Mr Ss property; and
Pay Mr S £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4104380