K821x#15complaint
Mr R says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Mr R between  January 
2017 and August 2018. Details of these  four loans  are as follows:
Loan Taken Repaid Instalments Amount Highest repayment
1 19/01/2017 30/06/2017 6 £300 £106.00
2 30/06/2017 23/10/2017 6 £750 £293.00
3 23/10/2017 04/05/2018 6 £1000 £366.66
4 16/08/2018 03/10/2018 9 £1000 £327.11
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Rs complaint in part and thought loan four shouldnt have been 
given. Mr Lender didnt  agree  and so the complaint  was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN40169282I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Mr Lender asked Mr R for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. For loans one to three,  given the loan amounts,  what was apparent about Mr 
Rs circumstances at the time and his history with Mr Lender,  I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr R provided or the information Mr 
Lender shouldve  been aware  of, which meant it wouldve been  proportionate to start 
verifying what Mr R was saying. So I cant say it was wrong for Mr Lender  to have provided 
the first 3 loans. 
As our adjudicator explained, by loan four the pattern of Mr Rs borrowing showed that he 
was showing signs that he was struggling to repay  his borrowing: 
Loan four was for £1,000. This amount  was over three times as much  as the first loan Mr 
R took out with Mr Lender. The amounts he was asking to borrow had steadily increased 
over 18 months between loan 1 and when Mr R asked  for loan 4.
When he requested loan 4 Mr R asked for this loan to be over a longer time than his 
previous loans, taking  it out over 9 months. Mr R also took an additional month to repay 
loan 3, settling  the loan on 04/05/2018 rather than 06/04/2018 as agreed.
Mr R was borrowing again  on the same day he was repaying  his loans. He took out 
loans 2 and 3 on the same day that he repaid a previous  one. This shows me that he 
was most likely unable to repay previous  loans  without taking out a new one and was 
borrowing again to fill a gap in his finances. 
I think when I consider all of these points,  it showed that there  was a significant risk that Mr 
R would  be unable to meet his repayments  for loan four because he was showing signs  that 
he was struggling  to repay in a sustainable  way. So I think Mr Lender was wrong to approve  
loan four. 
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loan four and I think Mr Lender  should put things  
right.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
Ref: DRN40169283refund  all interest and charges Mr R paid on loan four;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans four from Mr Rs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
I require PDL Finance  Limited (trading as Mr Lender) to pay Mr R compensation as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4016928