K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains that Sainsburys  Bank  Plc defaulted a loan account she had jointly  with her 
husband. 
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  15 May 2019,  
an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.  So, I wont  repeat that 
information here. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said that, in the circumstances here, Sainsburys hadnt treated 
Mrs G fairly in defaulting the loan. I said that in order to put things right,  Sainsburys should  
reinstate the loan in Mrs Gs sole name  or set up a new loan in Mrs Gs sole name with the 
same terms  and conditions as the previous  joint loan. It should deduct  from the amount  
Mrs G owes a sum equivalent to any amount that it received from Mr Gs trustee in 
bankruptcy. Mrs G should make  the missed  payments then repay  the loan monthly, as 
before. 
I said that Sainsburys should remove the default from Mrs Gs credit file and pay Mrs G 
compensation of £200 in relation to her distress  and inconvenience. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Sainsburys didnt agree with my provisional  decision  but agreed to do what I set out. It said 
that its system means  that it would  have to set up a new loan for Mrs G, which  will require a 
new credit  agreement. It said it would arrange for Mrs G to repay the old loan (from the 
proceeds of the new loan), arrange for the default to be removed from Mrs Gs credit  file and 
liaise with the insolvency practitioner in relation to any rebate that may be due.
Mrs G accepted my provisional  decision.  She said shed had a change of circumstances. 
Mrs G said that she is buying Mr Gs share of the house so she no longer has the money to 
pay the missed payments  in one go but could make the payments going forward.  
Sainsburys was concerned that Mrs G couldnt  afford the loan but it agreed to extend  the 
term of the new loan to take into account  the months Mrs G couldnt  make the repayments. 
So, the new loan will be for the remainder of the original term plus the months when 
payment hasnt been made.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN49800702I remain of the view that Sainsburys didnt treat Mrs G treated fairly here in defaulting the 
loan. The exchanges since my provisional decision have clarified  the way forward.  
Sainsburys says that it cant  reinstate the loan so it will create  a new loan for Mrs G, which  
will require a new credit  agreement. She will need  to repay  the old loan with the proceeds of 
the new loan.  Then,  Sainsburys will arrange the removal of the default  from Mrs Gs credit  
file. Sainsburys should deduct from the amount  Mrs G owes  a sum equivalent to the amount 
it received from Mr Gs trustee in bankruptcy.  It should also pay Mrs G compensation of 
£200 in relation to her distress and inconvenience. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Gs complaint. I now require Sainsburys Bank  Plc to:
1.Set up a new loan in Mrs Gs sole name with the same  terms and conditions  as the 
previous loan except  that the term of the new loan is extended to take into account 
the months Mrs G hasnt made the repayments.
2.Deduct from the amount due under the new loan in Mrs Gs name a sum equivalent 
to any amount that Sainsburys  received  from Mr Gs trustee in bankruptcy.
3.Remove the default from Mrs Gs credit  file after shes used the proceeds of the new 
loan to repay whats owed in relation to the old loan.
4.Pay Mrs G compensation of £200 in relation to her distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN49800703extract of my provisional decision 
complaint
Mrs G complains that Sainsburys  Bank Plc defaulted  a loan account  she had jointly  with her husband.
background
In 2015, Mr and Mrs G took out a joint loan with Sainsburys. The loan was repayable over four years 
and two months. The payments were made in full and on time. In May 2018, Mr G was the subject of a 
bankruptcy order. Mrs G continued to make  the repayments of the joint loan.
In October  2018, Sainsburys sent Mrs G a notice of arrears that said she was behind  with 
repayments. The notice  said that the arrears were £0.00. In November  2018,  Sainsburys 
defaulted the loan account and wrote off the debt.
Sainsburys says that the bankruptcy order relating  to Mr G includes the joint loan account,  so it was 
right to default  the joint loan account. It said that it recorded correctly the default against both joint 
account holders. Sainsburys said that it wasnt able to move the remaining balance owed to an 
account in Mrs Gs sole name.
Mrs G doesnt want Sainsburys to write off the debt, as shes able to continue to make the 
repayments. She says that this matter will affect  her credit rating, which isnt fair, as she had nothing  
to do with her husbands business or bankruptcy. Mrs G says that Sainsburys hasnt acted  in 
accordance with the account terms and conditions. She wants Sainsburys to allow her to continue  to 
repay the loans so that she doesnt have a default on her credit report.
Our adjudicator said that whilst  the terms and conditions of the account allowed  Sainsburys to 
default the account, it hadnt treated Mrs G fairly. He said that Mrs G had made the monthly 
repayments and it was her intention  to repay the debt in full but Sainsburys  hadnt given her that 
opportunity. The adjudicator  said that there was every  indication that Mrs G could afford  the 
repayments and that it was unfair to record a default against her.
The adjudicator said that, to put things right, Sainsburys  should reinstate the loan in Mrs Gs sole 
name or give her a new loan with the same terms and conditions. He said that Mrs G should make 
the repayments that were not made after the default date and then make the usual repayments.  The 
adjudicator said that Sainsburys should remove the default from
Mrs Gs credit file and pay her compensation of £200 in relation to her distress and 
inconvenience.
Sainsburys didnt agree  with the adjudicator. It said that, as the debt was included in Mr Gs 
bankruptcy order it had benefited from a payment under that order and was involved in the 
agreement about the settlement to creditors. So, if it removed the debt from the arrangements 
already in place because Mrs G wants to repay the loan, the whole bankruptcy order would need to 
be reassessed. Sainsburys also said that it assessed affordability  in relation to both Mr and Mrs G.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint. I dont think that Sainsburys treated  Mrs G fairly  and Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN49800704The terms  and conditions of the loan provide  that if a bankruptcy petition  is made against either Mr 
or Mrs G, Sainsburys may terminate  the loan agreement. In those circumstances,  repayment is 
required straight  away. But in the particular circumstances here, I dont think  that Sainsburys  
treated Mrs G fairly. Thats because  Mrs G wasnt involved in Mr Gs bankruptcy and she was willing 
and able to continue to make the repayments. Following Mr Gs bankruptcy  in May 2018,  Mrs G 
made five monthly  repayments, on time and in full. I understand that she was content  to continue  to 
do so.
Mrs G had done nothing  wrong here. Sainsburys actions affect her greatly as she has a default on 
her credit file, which will remain there for six years. She says that she may need to rent 
accommodation in the near future  and a default on her credit file will make that much more difficult.
In order to put things  right,  Sainsburys should reinstate the loan in Mrs Gs sole name  or set up a 
new loan in Mrs Gs sole name with the same  terms and conditions as the previous joint loan.
Sainsburys says that, as the joint debt was included in Mr Gs bankruptcy  order,  it has benefited 
from a payment under  that order and was involved in the agreement about the settlement to 
creditors. So, if it removed the debt from the arrangements already in place because  Mrs G wants  to 
repay the loan, the whole bankruptcy order would  need to be reassessed. Thats a matter between  
Sainsburys and Mr Gs trustee  in bankruptcy. I dont think that prevents Sainsburys treating Mrs G 
fairly. But Sainsburys  should deduct from the amount Mrs G owes a sum equivalent to the amount it 
received from Mr Gs trustee in bankruptcy. Mrs G should make the missed payments then repay  
the loan monthly, as before.
Sainsburys should also remove the default from Mrs Gs credit file.
Mrs G has suffered  distress and inconvenience because of Sainsburys  actions. She was
worried about  the default and its effect on her future. I agree with the adjudicator  that fair 
compensation for that is £200.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mrs Gs complaint.  I intend to direct Sainsburys
Bank Plc to:
1.Reinstate the loan in Mrs Gs sole name or set up a new loan in Mrs Gs sole name  with 
the same terms and conditions as the previous  loan.
2.Deduct  from the amount due a sum equivalent to any amount that Sainsburys 
received from Mr Gs trustee in bankruptcy.
3.Remove the default from Mrs Gs credit file.
4.Pay Mrs G compensation of £200  in relation to her distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN4980070