K822xcomplaint
Mrs H complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) havent  completed 
works arising out of a subsidence claim she originally  made  back  in 2011.
background 
Ive attached my provisional decision dated  14 November 2019 which forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I said I was intending to conclude that LV should  pay 
Mrs H the £1,555 its offered, to cover  the outstanding snagging  issues  arising from her 
subsidence claim, and the £500 its offered to compensate her for the inconvenience shes  
suffered while  the claim has been ongoing. I asked  LV and Mrs H to let me have any final 
arguments or information theyd like me to consider by 28 November 2019. 
LV responded to say that they didnt have anything further to add. Mrs H provided four pages  
of submissions together with 107 pages of photographic evidence to support  her further 
points, which  Ive briefly summarised below:
1.Mrs H says the reason the snagging  repairs have gone on for so long is due to the 
shoddy workmanship in the first place. She doesnt  want  the contractor to return  to 
the property to finish the works  and has suggested that having  a tradesman attend 
that is more specialised and has better attention  to detail  would  be best.
2.Mrs H says she is not in a position  to sort these  issues out with different contractors 
and it is causing  her a lot of stress.  She wants one professional  contactor  to come 
out and sort the snagging issues.
3.Mrs H believes  that all the works shes identified that need to be carried  out to the 
house are a result of the subsidence in the first instance and knock-on effects of bad 
workmanship.
4.Mrs H has provided an itemised  photographic record of 54 areas where she believes 
snagging is required to be attended  to. She says it would cost more  than LV have 
offered to repair all of these issues.
Mrs H has also said she trusts I will visually take those pictures  into consideration and re-
evaluate my proposal or she will take this further up the chain of complaints. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the effort Mrs H has gone  to, to provide a detailed  response to my provisional 
decision, and Ive carefully reviewed her response. Ive also asked LV for their comments  on 
the issues Mrs H has highlighted. 
In summary,  LV have said:
1.It isnt clear from the photos  whether  areas of the property  Mrs H is unhappy with 
could be considered as genuine snagging, or resulting from normal wear and tear or 
natural movement of the building. The non-standard construction  of the building  
could mean evidence of movement such as separation cracks at the ceiling and wall 
junctions are more likely to occur.
Ref: DRN446672422.A definitive snagging list was produced in August 2018, so LV would expect any 
subsequent problems which arise, to be addressed by Mrs H, as property owner,  as 
part of routine maintenance.
3.The socket which has been glued to the wall, as shown in the first and second 
photographs was repaired by the contractor as a goodwill gesture after a picture  
above fell onto it. When the contractor  found there  was no back  plate in the socket 
Mrs H agreed  they could glue it in place to solve the problem. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  throughout the claim period Mrs H and LV have 
disagreed about  whether the works  Mrs H wants to be completed at the property related to 
the subsidence claim, or general wear and tear. 
To try and settle matters, LV arranged for several site visits to be carried out at the property 
with their loss adjustor,  local representative,  contractor, Mrs H and at times, her son-in-law. 
The purpose of these site visits was to agree a snagging list of items that related to the 
subsidence claim and to explain to Mrs H why other items would not be covered  under by 
the insurance policy. At those times, the case file confirms that Mrs H agreed with the 
outcome of the meetings,  and then later, on reflection took a different view.  
Because this claim has been ongoing  for such a long time, and because  Mrs H frequently 
introduces new issues that she is unhappy  with, in my provisional decision I set out in detail,  
the different  elements of Mrs Hs complaint that I was dealing with, and the steps LV had 
taken to address  her complaint  and settle  her claim.
In her response to my provisional  decision,  Mrs H has added more  issues that she would like 
to be addressed, such as having all the of the electrics in the property checked, and having 
the cracks  in the tarmac under her external front stairs repaired. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  before I can require LV to address any of the 
issues raised by Mrs H, I need to be persuaded by her evidence that they arose from the 
subsidence claim. However,  other  than her view that all of the issues arose due to shoddy 
workmanship Mrs H hasnt provided  any other  evidence to show thats the case.  When  
considering Mrs Hs complaint, I have  to take all of the evidence into account,  which  includes 
Mrs Hs photos and opinions, but it also includes LVs experts reports  and the site visits and 
agreements that resulted  from those site visits. Having carefully thought about all of the 
available evidence, I remain  of the view that the £1,555 LV has offered to cover  the 
outstanding issues,  and finally settle Mrs Hs claim, and the £500  LV has offered to cover the 
inconvenience Mrs H has experienced is a fair and reasonable offer in the circumstances.  
Although Ive carefully thought about  Mrs Hs response to my provisional decision, her 
response hasnt changed  my mind.
I understand that Mrs H doesnt want the burden of having to arrange for the works to be 
carried out to her property, and Im sorry that she is feeling stressed. However,  in offering to 
send their contractor back to the property to finish the snagging works, LV have done what  I 
would have expected them to do. When Mrs H declined  that option,  it was reasonable for LV 
to then offer her a cash settlement to arrange  for the works to be done herself. As LV have 
offered to have their contractor carry out the works, I dont think its reasonable for me to 
require them to send  another contractor to Mrs Hs property to resolve the last snagging 
issues. 
Mrs H has also said that she doesnt  believe that the amount shes been offered will cover 
the outstanding works.  However, Mrs H hasnt provided any evidence to show  that the works 
Ref: DRN44667243Ive concluded  need to be done  to settle  the claim, would cost more than LV has offered.   
Mrs H would like a number of other works to be carried out at the property, such as re-
roughcasting the exterior walls and having  the electrics checked, however, Ive concluded 
that LV is not required to address those additional matters,  so I wont be asking LV to 
provide a cash settlement in relation any other items  Mrs H has raised.
Mrs H has said that if I dont  re-evaluate my decision, she will take her complaint further up 
the chain of complaints. However, an ombudsmans  decision is the last stage in our process, 
so if Mrs H doesnt accept  my decision, she will need to take advice as to the other options 
available to her. Once a final decision has been issued by an ombudsman, this service  has 
no power to help any further  with a complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  and in my provisional decision attached,  my final decision 
is that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited should pay Mrs H a total of £2055 to 
finalise the settlement of her claim, if it hasnt already paid that to her. I make no other award  
against Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Carolyn Harwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN44667244COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mrs H complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) havent completed works 
arising out of a subsidence  claim she originally made back in 2011.
background
Mrs H and her late husband,  Mr H, took out an insurance  policy  for their property  in 2009. In 2011 
they made a claim for damage to their property caused by subsidence movement.  The local Housing 
Association took responsibility  for the sub-ground works that needed  to be carried  out at the property. 
LV took responsibility for the works that were needed to repair damage above ground.
background to the claim
LVs loss adjuster has explained that theres been a long-term issue with settlement of numerous 
properties on the estate  where Mrs Hs property is located, to the extent  that major stabilisation works 
were completed and funded by the local Housing Association.  However, the Housing Association 
declined to deal with any repair works to the above ground structure  to the properties  in private 
ownership, so LV agreed to pay for the repairs to Mrs Hs home, arising from the subsidence, under  
the terms of her insurance policy. 
LV appointed a contractor  to carry out works detailed  in a schedule dated January  2013.  The 
contractor was supervised by a consultant and the works were mostly completed by August  2014, 
other than some snagging issues. However,  Mrs H contacted the loss adjuster in 2015 to say that 
some elements of the works were unsatisfactory. The original consultant retired,  and a second 
consultant was appointed by the loss adjuster  to visit the property  and inspect  the works. During the 
consultants inspection it was agreed that some works  did appear to be unsatisfactory and a list of 
snagging items was prepared.
first complaint to the Financial Ombudsman  Service
In June 2016  Mrs H first brought a complaint to our service about the time it was taking LV to 
complete the remedial  works to her property. Our investigator upheld the complaint and said that LV 
needed to:
1)Complete the repairs that need  to be carried out as a result  of the original claim;
2)Consider any new issues  that arise as a result of the original claim; and
3)Pay Mrs H £200 for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
LV sought to have the works completed by the original contractor; however, he failed to attend the 
property on a number of occasions to carry out the works so LVs loss adjuster appointed a new 
contractor. Although there were a number  of communications between LV and Mrs H during this time, 
there doesnt  appear to have  been a lot of progress made in terms of addressing  the outstanding 
snagging works. Then, in August 2017, Mrs H raised 32 items of repair  with LV that she believed 
should be addressed as part of the claim.
After receiving Mrs Hs list of outstanding works,  LV arranged for a site visit with the loss adjuster, 
consultant, new contractor and Mrs H so that any items LV declined to address could  be clearly 
explained to Mrs H. A photographic report was prepared  showing the further issues being  raised by 
Mrs H. 
In January 2018, Mrs H signed a schedule of proposed  works to indicate her agreement  with the list 
of outstanding works, and she added a comment to the list to say she didnt agree with the window 
report on the front bedroom window  and she still felt that the draught was coming from the centre 
panel of the window.
Ref: DRN44667245In May 2018  Mrs H refused  to allow the contractor to complete the outstanding snagging works  so LV 
made her a cash offer to cover those  works  being completed by another  contractor. But Mrs H 
declined the cash offer as she felt it wouldnt  be enough to cover all of the outstanding works.
second complaint brought to the Financial  Ombudsman  Service
Mrs H brought a new complaint to our service in September 2018 about the works still not being  
completed to her satisfaction. Our investigator spoke to Mrs H on several occasions to establish  more 
precisely what Mrs H was complaining about. She concluded that Mrs H was unhappy with:
the cash  settlement offered by LV for the soffit and facia boards to be repaired;
the height  of the rooms;
the location of the cooker next to the washing machine; and 
the delays shes encountered in having her complaint resolved.
Given this claim  has been ongoing now for eight  years,  and the works seem to be close to 
completion, I think its important to thoroughly address all of Mrs Hs complaint points, so that a final 
decision can be made on the complaint and the claim can be finally settled. Ive listened  to the calls 
between Mrs H and our investigator and Ive reviewed all the information  on the case file. Having 
done so, Ive summarised Mrs Hs concerns into the following  six key complaint points: 
1.LV agreed to replace all of the fascia and soffit boards then changed  their mind and only 
agreed to repair the fascia boards.  Mrs H wants all of the fascia boards replaced;
2.the cooker has been installed next to the washing  machine in the kitchen  so when the 
washing machine goes it shakes the cooker, and the cooker is too wide for the space in the 
kitchen;
3.the house  is cold due to draughts coming through the windows and skirting boards;
4.the decoration  inside the house hasnt been finished and Mrs H doesnt have any curtains;
5.the floor level has been raised  making  it difficult for furniture to be moved into or out of the 
house;
6.there are cracks in the render which  she believes should be fixed by having the two outer 
walls of the house  re-roughcast.
When our investigator  spoke  to LV about these complaint points, they said that these were  points Mrs 
H had raised  a number of times during the period  of the claim. They also said that aside from a few 
outstanding points, the issues had either been dealt with, or agreed with Mrs H; (following meetings  at 
the property  with the loss adjuster, surveyor and contractor)  they wouldnt be covered  by her 
insurance policy.
Mrs H has refused to have  the contractor back at the property to address the outstanding  snagging 
issues (listed  below), so at the current time, LV have made a total cash  offer of £2055, to cover the 
following items and settle the outstanding  parts  of her claim:
£905  for the repair of the facia  boards, and soffits  and render;
£150  for the supply and fitting  of replacement curtain  poles;
£500  compensation for the distress the process has caused Mrs H; and
£500  for a list of snagging issues to be addressed (listed below).
Snagging issues:
a.Re-fixing the cup-holder over the bathroom sink
b.Redecorating  of the door frame in the bathroom
c.Fixing the strip of laminate flooring in the lounge which is protruding up in the front 
corner behind the door to the hall
d.Removing and refitting the skirting along the front wall and return  wall up to the 
fireplace
Ref: DRN44667246e.Securely fixing the cable to the sky box to the skirting where it extends  from the BT 
socket to the television  sky box
f.Removing some marks on the wall within the dining area
g.Making good some plaster sponge marks on the wall to the party wall side
h.Fit trunking over the cable above the kitchen wall units for the under-cupboard lights 
Mrs H has rejected LVs offer. She says that she doesnt think even £5,000 would cover  the 
outstanding works, as the re-roughcasting alone would  cost at least £3,500. Mrs H has said she isnt 
interested in taking the money from LV because she isnt able to arrange  for contractors to come to 
the property  and complete the outstanding works.
In attempting to resolve Mrs Hs complaint, our investigator made  a number  of suggestions  for Mrs H 
to consider, such as arranging  for her own contractor to come out to the property  to look at the 
outstanding points  but Mrs H didnt agree and said she wanted LV to send a new contractor  to come 
out to the property. Given  the small  amount of snagging work to be completed at the property,  our 
investigator didnt agree  that was reasonable.  So, having spoken at length to Mrs H and LV and 
having considered all of the available evidence, our investigator  concluded that what  LV had offered 
Mrs H, was reasonable. 
Mrs H didnt agree with our investigators view, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision 
to be made.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Although I havent responded to each and every  point  Mrs H has raised,  I would like to assure her that 
I have taken account of everything that shes said, and all of the information available about the 
complaint.
Before I can ask LV to do what Mrs H asks, I first need to be satisfied that what  she is asking to be 
done is covered by her insurance policy. Once Ive decided what outstanding  works LV needs to do to 
settle the claim, I will then look at what theyve offered  Mrs H in relation  to those  works  and decide 
whether or not their offer is fair and reasonable.
The obligations of LV
At the start of the claim, when the repairs commenced, LV had agreed to settle the claim by repairing 
the damage that could be attributed to the subsidence. However, as they are entitled to do, LV 
refused to do some  of the works Mrs H requested,  on the basis  that it would  have put her in a better 
position than she was, prior to the damage occurring. LV was entitled to do this under  the terms of the 
insurance policy which  explain  that LV will not be liable for damage caused by wear  and tear. 
When Mrs H refused to have  the contractor back to the property, LV made Mrs H a cash  offer which 
we would consider to be reasonable, given they had first provided Mrs H with the option of having  the 
works done by the contractor. With regard  to having a different contractor appointed,  LV said that 
wasnt practical as so little work was outstanding and LVs contractor was willing  to go back to the 
property to finish the work.
Im going to address  each  of Mrs Hs key complaint  points  below by first summarising what has taken  
place during  the period of the claim, with regard  to the relevant  works. I will then give my provisional 
decision on whether or not LV needs to do anything further to settle the claim in relation to those 
works.
1.Fascia and soffit boards
Ref: DRN44667247The original schedule of works, dated January 2013,  listed renew fascias and soffits as an item of 
work to be carried out. However, as the works progressed  it became apparent that the soffit and 
fascia boards  hadnt been damaged by movement. So, Mrs H was told at that time, that they wouldnt 
be replaced. The first contractor then redecorated them by staining and varnishing  them.
The photographic report from the August  2017  meeting with Mrs H at the property recorded that the 
fascia and soffit  boards were timber and required sanding and painting. During a subsequent  meeting  
at the property on 21 September 2017 it was confirmed that there seemed to have  been some 
weathering to the fascia and soffit boards since theyd been stained and varnished by the first 
contractor. So, LV agreed that they should be redecorated. But in March 2018  Mrs H refused to let the 
contractor paint the soffit  and fascia boards  as she said LV was going to replace  them. LV then 
advised Mrs H that if she continued to insist the fascia and soffit boards be replaced, the cash value 
of the refurbishment would  be offered to her. Since then LV has offered Mrs H £905  for the 
redecoration of the fascia and soffit boards and the cracks in the render, which  I will address  further 
below. However, Mrs H remains of the view that the fascia and soffit  boards should be replaced.
As Mrs H was informed in 2013 that the soffit and fascia boards wouldnt be replaced, and at that time 
she allowed  the contractor  to redecorate them, Im persuaded Mrs H agreed then that they werent 
damaged by the subsidence  movement. Ive also considered the photographic  evidence of the fascia 
and soffit boards, and in my view the damage does appear to be cosmetic.  Also,  LV have provided  an 
estimate from the contractor to show that the works  could be done for that sum of £905. So, Im 
currently of the view that LVs offer of £905 to cover the refurbishment costs of the fascia, soffit 
boards and cracked render is reasonable.  And Im not currently minded to require LV to take any 
further steps in relation  to this item of work. 
2.Kitchen layout - cooker and washing machine
Mrs H has complained that the washing machine and cooker have been placed next to each other in 
the kitchen,  so when the washing machine is going, it shakes the cooker.  She has also complained 
that the cooker hasnt been attached properly  to the kitchen units. 
LV commented to our investigator that the kitchen works were done five years ago, and the location of 
the washing machine next to the cooker hasnt been mentioned by Mrs H to the loss adjuster on any 
of his visits.
In November 2016 Mrs H told the consultant that she wasnt pleased  with the kitchen;  in particular  she 
was unhappy that the oven unit was loose. In April 2017 the loss adjuster confirmed  that the cooker 
could be adjusted and tightened. However, in July 2017 Mrs H wouldnt permit the contractor  to 
tighten the oven as she wanted a new oven. After  speaking to LV Mrs H agreed the contractor should 
be given an opportunity  to fix the cooker. 
During the meeting at the property on 1 August 2017 a number of concerns  about  the kitchen were  
raised by Mrs H, but the location of the washing  machine  next to the cooker was not raised.  However, 
she did say she was concerned that the oven door wouldnt close properly and the seal around the 
top of the oven door was missing.
During the meeting at the property on 21 September 2017 it was clarified that the built-in cooker  was 
the original  cooker which was refitted, but hadnt been correctly secured by the original contractors, so 
the cooker wasnt square  and level and as a result the oven  door wouldnt close properly, causing  
damage to the main oven. In October 2017, LV confirmed that the oven would be replaced. A new 
oven was delivered  to Mrs H on 16 March 2018; however,  she wasnt happy with it as it wasnt the 
same model  as her existing oven, so it was returned. On 19 March a new oven was delivered and 
fitted, but Mrs H said she didnt like it because it was black and her previous  oven was stainless steel, 
so her old oven was refitted. Mrs H then chose  an electric  oven but she had previously  informed the 
Ref: DRN44667248loss adjuster that she wanted a gas oven, so he sourced a stainless-steel gas oven which she 
approved and was fitted in May 2018.
With regard to the fitting of the oven, LV confirmed  that there  is an angle bracket which is attached  to 
the oven and is secured to the side panels. So, there must be a panel  to each side of the oven for it to 
be fixed. They  also confirmed that the washing machine is next to the oven on the right-hand side. LV 
offered to have their contractor look at the fixing of the oven, but Mrs H has declined to have the 
contractor back at the property.
Ive thought about Mrs Hs complaint points regarding the kitchen, and having done  so, Im not 
currently minded  to require LV to carry out any further works in the kitchen. If Mrs H wasnt happy  with 
the layout of the kitchen,  in having the washing machine next to the cooker, I would have  expected 
her to raise  that concern in 2013/2014 when the kitchen was fitted. I dont think  its reasonable to ask 
LV to take any steps to change the layout of the kitchen at this late stage. With regard  to Mrs Hs 
complaint points about the cooker,  as LV have replaced the cooker with a model approved by her and 
offered to have their contractor check its properly  fixed to the units, which  Mrs H has declined, I cant 
reasonably ask them  to do anything more. So, Im not currently minded to require LV to do anything 
further in relation to the kitchen layout or cooker.
3.Draughts in the house
Mrs H has complained that her house is cold,  which  she believes is caused by draughts  coming from 
the windows and skirting  boards. Mrs H says the windows  werent draughty prior to the first contractor  
removing and re-fitting  the windows. Ive set out below  a timeline of events  relevant to the issue of the 
house being draughty.  
In November 2017 LV wrote  to Mrs H and said that the loss adjustor  would arrange for another 
wind/smoke test to be carried  out at the property to identify where the draughts were coming through 
into the house,  and why. LV assured Mrs H that the outcome of the tests would be shared with her. 
The test results were  then provided on 8 December 2017 and concluded  that the windows didnt 
appear to be draughty; however, the report identified a draught coming through the area where the 
battens had been fitted over the downstairs  windows following the lowering of the ceiling. Draughts 
were also identified  at floor to skirting  in the lounge  and bedroom above.
In January 2018 the loss adjuster wrote to Mrs H to confirm  that when the beading  to the laminate 
floor was removed,  the contractor would  apply sealant in those  areas  in order to reduce any draughts 
which may be occurring at the skirting board level. He also confirmed that the battens  fitted over the 
windows downstairs  following the lowering of the ceiling would also be sealed by the contractor to 
stop those draughts. 
In January 2018 Mrs H spoke to loss assessor and said that she didnt accept the conclusions in the 
report and maintained that the windows  were draughty, and the house needed to be re-roughcast to 
prevent draughts  around the windows.
In February 2018 LV spoke to Mrs H and offered  to have the smoke / draught test carried out again. 
But Mrs H declined.  Then in March 2018 Mrs H accepted the draughts  downstairs were resolved as 
the laminate floor was replaced and gaps allowing air in were plugged.  
Ive considered the steps LV has taken to address Mrs Hs concerns  about  the windows being 
draughty. LV had a test carried out by experts who confirmed the windows werent draughty, but 
identified areas near the floor and ceiling  that were  letting  draughts  in. LV then arranged for the 
contractor to seal those areas identified  in the report and offered to have the smoke / draught  test 
carried out again in February 2018. Although I appreciate that Mrs H firmly  believes  the windows are 
draughty and should be replaced, she hasnt provided any professional opinion  to support her view.  
But on the other  hand,  LV has provided  a specialist  report which confirms  there are no draughts  
coming through the windows. So, Im currently of the view that LV has done all they need to do in 
Ref: DRN44667249relation to Mrs Hs complaint about draughty windows and Im not currently minded to require them to 
do anything further. 
4.Decoration, snagging issues and curtain poles
Mrs H has complained that the decorating  work at the property hasnt been completed.  Shes also 
complained that her curtain poles have disappeared.  
On 15 August 2018 the loss adjuster wrote to Mrs H to set out the snagging issues theyd all agreed 
would be done, during the meeting at the property earlier  in the month.  These included: 
a.Re-fixing the cup-holder over the bathroom sink
b.Redecorating  of the door frame in the bathroom
c.Fixing the strip of laminate flooring in the lounge which is protruding up in the front 
corner behind the door to the hall
d.Removing and refitting the skirting along the front wall and return  wall up to the 
fireplace
e.Securely fixing the cable to the sky box to the skirting where it extends  from the BT 
socket to the television  sky box
f.Removing some marks on the wall within the dining area
g.Making good some plaster sponge marks on the wall to the party wall side
h.Fit trunking over the cable above the kitchen wall units for the under-cupboard lights 
However, Mrs H refused to allow the contractor to return to the property to carry out the works needed 
to address these issues. To try and resolve this part of Mrs Hs complaint,  LV offered a cash 
settlement to Mrs H so that she could arrange  for another contractor  to attend the property and carry 
out the work.
On the basis that there was approximately one days work plus materials, left to do at the property,  
the contractor  suggested to LV that £250 should cover the costs. However, if a new contractor was 
involved, on the basis that theyd need to visit to familiarise themselves with the property, the 
contractor recommended £500 be offered to Mrs H, which LV agreed to.
Mrs H also complained that her curtain poles  had disappeared.  The 2013 specification  of works 
recorded that lights  and curtain poles were to remain. However, in March 2018 the loss adjuster  
reported that the brass curtain poles the contractors had removed and set aside for the ceiling work 
had disappeared  and Mrs H was looking  for those to be replaced. LV agreed to pay Mrs H an 
additional £150 so the curtain  poles could be replaced.
Ive thought carefully about  Mrs Hs request to have the snagging at the property completed by a new 
contractor to be appointed by LV. However,  I note that LV first offered  to have their contractor  carry  
out the works, and then as Mrs H wasnt happy with that, LV made  Mrs H a cash  of £500 to cover the 
outstanding works. Bearing in mind the small number  of decorative and snagging  issues that need to 
be addressed  at the property, and also noting that LV has given  Mrs H two alternative potential  
solutions, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to require  LV to offer Mrs H a third option of LV 
appointing a third contractor  to complete the remaining works. I think the offer LV has made of £500 
to cover the outstanding decoration and snagging works  is reasonable, because its based on a 
detailed quotation  provided by the contractor which  seems to be fair. And Mrs H hasnt provided any 
evidence to show that the outstanding works would  cost more than the £500 LV has offered.  So, Im 
not currently  minded to require  LV to do anything  further in relation  to this part of Mrs Hs complaint.
5.New floor levels make  it impossible to move furniture into and out of the house
Mrs H has complained that as a result of the floor levels  being raised,  and ceilings lowered,  she isnt 
able to move  furniture inside her house and she is worried that it will make it difficult for her to sell the 
property. Mrs H said that she had to give her lounge suite away because it wouldnt  fit back  inside the 
house. 
Ref: DRN446672410LV have explained that as part of the investigations undertaken by the retained engineer  in 2012 an 
internal level survey was completed to floor and ceiling  levels in both the ground floor and first floor. 
The readings  demonstrated a significant fall in levels towards the left-hand side of the house, which 
he said would have occurred  over an extended period. Given the differences between the left-hand 
side and right-hand side of the house it was considered that both the ground floor and first floor 
should be levelled so that was included  in the original January 2013 schedule  of works. At that time 
no works were  done  to reduce the ceilings  because of concerns regarding room heights. 
In September 2016 the loss adjusters advised LV that the ceilings were not part of the original works  
as given  the amount of adjustment required to the floors the engineers considered  that if the ceilings 
were dropped as well this would compromise room  heights.  The issues with the floors and ceiling pre-
dated the inception  of the policy, but the view was taken that it was better  to level the floors.  
In October 2016, Mrs H advised LV that she was going to pursue the levelling of the ceilings as she 
felt since  the floors had been levelled it had become more noticeable.
At the end of January 2017, the loss adjuster  wrote to Mrs H to say that if the ceilings were  levelled at 
the lowest  point the room  would have a height of 2.2m whereas the normal minimum height should be 
2.3m. They didnt recommend the works therefore be done, and they said they also believed the issue 
was due to unconventional construction rather  than subsidence. And Mrs H hasnt provided any 
expert evidence which contradicts this. 
In mid-June 2017 LV asked the consultant to discuss other alternatives to lowering the ceiling with 
Mrs H. However,  it seemed to be the case that the only two options available  were to either leave  the 
ceilings as they were,  as recommended by the loss adjuster,  or lower them  as requested by Mrs H. 
And as it was Mrs Hs home,  and as she felt strongly about the ceilings being lowered,  then it was 
agreed that it should be her decision to make.  However,  at no point was it agreed  that the lowering of 
the ceilings was related to the subsidence claim. Rather, LV agreed to the ceilings being lowered so 
that Mrs H would be happy  with the overall  finish of the property once the claim had been settled.
Two weeks later, the loss adjuster wrote again to Mrs H and explained that to level the ceiling the 
finished floor to ceiling height after the installation would be 2.175m.  He also explained that lowering 
the ceiling would mean the curtain rails would  be close to the top of the window frames and the 
existing hanging  ceiling lights would no longer be appropriate, so again he did not recommend 
lowering the ceiling.  But he said LV was willing to pay for the ceilings to be lowered  if Mrs H insisted, 
but shed need to sign a consent, which  she did on 20 June 2017.
On 5 July 2017 the ceilings were lowered but Mrs H was then concerned about the ceiling height and 
light fittings. As a gesture  of goodwill, LV agreed to fit recessed lights into the ceilings.  
During the meeting at the property on 1 August 2017 Mrs H said she was unhappy that her current  
curtain rail couldnt  be attached  to the wall, however, LV pointed  that out to her before she consented 
to the lowering of the ceiling. 
In considering Mrs Hs complaint about the floor and ceiling levels Ive thought about the options that 
LV had offered  to Mrs H and whether it reasonably ought to have done more.  With regard to the 
levelling of the floors, while  theres no record of alternative  solutions being offered to Mrs H, I dont 
think Mrs H has suffered any loss as a result of the floors being levelled. Mrs H said she couldnt  fit 
her furniture inside the house after the floors were  levelled, however,  the dimensions of the doorframe  
werent reduced, and the lounge ceilings  were only lowered  much later. So, I cant see that Mrs H was 
disadvantaged by the floors being levelled. With regard to the ceilings being lowered, I think  LV did all 
they could to make Mrs H aware of the consequences of lowering the ceilings, and Mrs H gave her 
consent for works to be completed, against the recommendation of the loss adjuster. So, having 
considered Mrs Hs complaint about  the floors and ceilings, I dont think  LV have done anything wrong 
and I wont currently be requiring them to take any action in relation to this aspect of Mrs Hs 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN4466724116.Render / roughcast
In April 2017  Mrs H highlighted some damaged render  that she believed was caused by the 
subsidence. However,  on inspecting the damaged  render,  the loss adjuster concluded that there were 
some minor cracks evident,  but he didnt consider them to be structural. 
In the photographic report  from the August 2017 meeting with Mrs H at the property, cracking to the 
render was evidenced at the top corner of the front and back lounge  windows. During the meeting at 
the property  on 21 September 2017, Mrs H said she would like both the front and rear walls to be re-
roughcast as had been  done  to other Housing  Association properties on the estate.  However, the loss 
adjustor said there  was nothing  to show the render  had cracked  as a result of movement.  The loss 
adjuster and contractor said the minor cracking was more consistent  with disturbance of the render / 
roughcast finish when the windows had previously been replaced,  and this was confirmed to Mrs H in 
a letter  dated 25 October 2017. At that meeting Mrs H also highlighted that a small section of render  
had broken off at the base of the house. The loss adjuster advised her that this was a weathering / 
maintenance issue and not related to subsidence.
In November 2017 LV offered to have the cracking  filled and then for the smooth render surround  to 
each window,  whether affected or not, to have mortar paint applied  so the repairs wouldnt be visible, 
and all the window  surrounds would match. But LV also informed Mrs H that the detachment of a very 
small piece of render was not considered  to be related  to the subsidence movement and no further 
action would be taken  to rectify that as it was part of routine property maintenance.
In March 2018  when the contractor was at the property  to complete some of the snagging works, Mrs 
H wouldnt permit the cracked render to be repaired because she said that LV was going to have the 
house re-roughcast. She asked the contractor when they were going to do that. 
When considering whether  or not LV ought to have  the outside  walls of the house re-roughcast, Ive 
weighed up the available evidence to decide whether  or not I think the cracking was related to the 
subsidence. Although Ive taken account of Mrs Hs comment that the Housing Association re-
roughcast the properties it owned, Ive also taken account of the opinions of the experts who have 
been involved  with the subsidence claim on behalf of LV. And for the reasons Ive set out below, Im 
currently of the view that the experts opinions are more  persuasive than Mrs Hs view:
Although Mrs H lives at the property and knows it well, the consultants and contractors have 
relevant professional  skills and experience to enable  them  to come to an informed view on the 
cause of the damage. And none  of the professionals involved  in the works  to repair the damage to 
the property  have  expressed a view that the cracks relate to subsidence movement. Instead,  they 
conclude that the cracking was more likely due to disturbance to the render caused when  the 
windows were replaced, at some  time prior to the claim  being  made; 
Mrs H hasnt provided any expert opinion to contradict the conclusions reached by the 
professionals acting on behalf of LV;
While  I appreciate  that other properties on the estate have been re-roughcast,  I havent  been 
provided with any information about those properties so cant comment on the reasons  why the 
Housing Associations  decided to carry out that work, (including  whether  those reasons  related to 
subsidence movement at the properties); and 
LV have  provided  a copy of an engineers report that was carried out on the property for previous  
insurers in 2001 regarding a possible subsidence claim. That report  recorded  various  cracks to the 
external roughcast  finish of the house but said the cracks were due to movement between different 
building materials and not due to any subsidence related  movement. Photographs  of the property 
that have been  provided show that the wall had been re-rendered between  2001 and 2011, but the 
cracks which are currently  showing  in the render are similar  to those  recorded in the 2001 
engineers report,  so similarly are unlikely to be related to subsidence movement.  
Ref: DRN446672412I appreciate that Mrs H believes having the outside walls of the house re-roughcast is necessary to 
address damage  related  to subsidence movement.  However, LV would only be required to do that 
work under  the terms of the policy if there was evidence  to show that the render had been damaged 
by the subsidence movement. As I havent seen any evidence to show  that any of the cracking to the 
render was due to subsidence,  I dont have any basis to require LV to do anything further for Mrs H in 
relation to this part of her complaint. 
my conclusions
Im currently  of the view that LV have done more than I would have required them to do to settle Mrs 
Hs claim. For example, theyve replaced  missing  roof tiles that Mrs H had agreed would be re-used. 
Theyve replaced missing  curtain  poles  and the oven, on two occasions. Theyve  also covered  the 
cost of lowering  the ceilings and installing  recessed  lighting in the lowered  ceilings, even though  the 
issues leading to that work  pre-dated Mrs Hs claim. And LV have agreed to cover the cost of repairs 
to parts of the property that have most likely been damaged as a result of fair wear and tear, such as 
the render, fascia and soffit  boards. 
I accept that there  have  been some delays  caused by LVs contractors, during the period that the 
claim has been ongoing; however, some of the delays were also caused by Mrs H, for example in 
refusing to allow the contractor  to carry out certain agreed works. Overall, I think  the £500 
compensation offered to Mrs H for the distress and inconvenience the delays have caused her is fair. 
And Im currently of the view that LV has treated Mrs H fairly and reasonably in the steps its taken  to 
settle her claim. I understand that Mrs H would  like to have her house  re-roughcast; however, LV is 
not under any obligation to improve  Mrs Hs property. Its obligation is to cover the repairs required as 
a result of the insured event, i.e. the subsidence movement. So taking everything into account, Im 
currently of the view that LV should pay Mrs H £2,055 its offered, to cover the outstanding  issues,  
and finally settle Mrs Hs claim. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Liverpool Victoria  Insurance Company Limited should pay Mrs H the 
£2055 its offered  to finalise the settlement of her claim.  Im not currently minded to make any further 
award again  Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited.
I now invite  Mrs H and Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited  to let me have  any final 
information or submissions  theyd like to make before  I issue  my final decision on this complaint.  
Carolyn Harwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4466724