K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In March 1999 Mr H took out a loan with Barclays.  At the same time it sold him PPI. The 
policy was paid for by a single premium that was added to the loan and attracted interest.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. Mr H disagreed,  so the case 
was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling  the PPI to Mr H, Barclays shouldve made it clear the policy was optional.  It 
also shouldve got Mr Hs agreement to take it out. Mr H says he didnt know he had the PPI. 
It seems  the PPI was sold during a meeting.  Barclays  no longer holds a copy  of the loan 
application Mr H signed, or much  else from the time of the sale for that matter,  and I think  
thats understandable  given how long it sale took place.
Barclays has however  provided  a sample  of the application form it says Mr H would have 
been asked to complete and sign when he applied for the loan. It had a box to tick next to a 
statement amount  the PPI to go ahead with PPI. And just below this there  was also an 
option to decline  the PPI. Overall, I think I can rely on the sample  to show Mr H ought to 
have been aware  of the PPI, that it was optional, and that he chose to go ahead with it. 
Although given how long ago the meeting took place, I can understand why Mr H cant  
remember this.
I think Barclays advised Mr H to take out PPI. That meant it should  have  taken steps to 
check if the PPI was right for him. I dont know if it did, but I think  it was right for him in any 
case because:
From  what Mr Hs told us about his circumstances at the time,  I think  he was eligible for 
the PPI. And I dont  think he was affected  by any of the main  things  the PPI didnt  cover  
or limited cover for.
Mr Hs wouldnt  have received any sick pay or redundancy pay from his employer. The 
PPI wouldve paid until the end of the loan for a single disability claim if Mr H had made a 
successful claim.  It also paid unemployment  benefits for up to 12 months per claim. Mr H 
also had no other  means  such as savings  of meeting his repayments if he wasnt  
working. So I think the PPI offered Mr H useful protection.
It seems  the PPI didnt give a proportional refund of the premium  and so was 
expensive to cancel   if the loan was paid off early.  But theres nothing to show he 
intended to settle  the loan early when he took it out.
Ref: DRN47692552Theres nothing to suggest Mr H couldnt  afford the PPI.
Barclays also had to give Mr H enough information  for him to make  to make an informed 
decision about taking  the PPI. Mr H has said that he was in a job at the time which meant  
that he may not have always been able to afford  the policy repayments. The sample loan 
agreement Barclays sent us sets out the premium,  interest it would accrue,  total cost of the 
PPI and monthly payment. I think Barclays would have made the PPIs  costs clear to Mr H 
because I think it likely  they were  presented to him in a similar way. And Mr H couldve  
cancelled the PPI if he was having  problems making  his monthly  loan repayments.
Its not clear if Barclays told Mr H everything else he needed to know,  or how well this was 
explained. So I think it might not have done enough here. But, for the same reasons I think 
the PPI was right for Mr H, I think even if Barclays had given him better information hed still 
have bought it.
So taking everything into account, including Mr Hs comments, I dont think Mr H lost out as 
a result of anything Barclays mightve  done wrong.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4769255