K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained about the valuation placed  on his car by his motor  insurer, esure 
Insurance Limited (esure), after it was stolen and not recovered. 
Mr Ks complaint was brought  to us by his wife, Mrs K, but for ease Ill refer to her comments  
as Mr Ks.
background
Mr K made a claim on his motor insurance  policy after his car was stolen in March 2019. The 
car wasnt found so esure offered to pay Mr K the value of the car- as per the policy.  esure 
offered £7,138 but Mr K didnt agree- he said the car was worth  more and that this offer 
wouldnt enable him to buy a similar  car. 
Mr K complained and provided copies of adverts  for similar cars but esure didnt change its 
offer. Mr K says esure told him it didnt rely on sales adverts but on trade guides in order  to 
value the car. It said it used three  trade guides in this case.  One was out of line with the rest 
and the £7,138 was the average of the other  two. Mr K then asked for a trade guide 
valuation- using  one of the trade  guides esure  told him it uses. He said it was much  higher 
and he sent this to esure but it again  didnt increase the valuation.
He then complained to us and asked for esure  to correctly value the car and pay him the 
difference. He sent us evidence of the valuation he got using the trade  guide  which  placed  
the cars  value at £8,812.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld and that a fair offer would be 
£7,448. He looked at on four trade  guides  for this valuation.  But one of the four guides 
wouldnt return any results when our adjudicator used its valuation  tool. So he used the 
valuation esure  received  when it had requested the valuation. He felt Mr Ks valuation  was 
out of line with the rest and didnt  take it into account.  
Mr K didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He thought his valuation  should 
be taken into consideration because it was done very near the time of the loss. He said he 
was concerned that the time its taken to investigate the complaint may have led to his cars  
valuation appearing to be lower than it should be. 
Before I issued my decision I asked our investigator to go back to the parties  with an 
increased valuation  of £7,576. I said, unlike our investigator, I would disregard the valuations  
esure had received because those didnt include the cars additional extras  and I didnt think 
they were accurate. The £7,576 was the average  of the other  three guides valuations  when 
the extras were  included. I also thought we couldnt take Mr Ks valuation  into account  
because it was out of line with the other three.  
Mr K didnt agree and said his valuation was the most accurate. esure didnt respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
Ref: DRN48118492Mr Ks policy  says if his car is stolen  it wont pay more  than the market value of the car at 
the time of loss, less the total excess payable under the policy.  
The policy says the market value is the amount a customer could reasonably  have 
expected to sell their car for on the open  market  just before the loss. It says that esures 
assessment is based on cars of the same make and model  and of a similar age, condition 
and mileage. The valuation will be based  on research from motor trade guides including  
three guides which Ill refer to as G, P and C. It says this may not be the price the consumer  
paid when they bought  the car. 
Our approach when  determining whether an insurers offer for the market value of a car is 
fair and reasonable is to consider the motor trade  guides. In addition to the three I mentioned 
above we also use a fourth guide which Ill refer to as C2. We find the trade guides 
persuasive evidence  because they are based  on extensive nationwide research of likely 
selling prices. 
esure said that when  it made its offer to Mr K it relied on the valuation  it got from guide  P. 
Mr K got his own valuation using the same guide- and this was substantially higher. 
Ive considered esures valuation and I dont think it includes  the extras that Mr K had on his 
car. For that reason I dont think I can take it into account. 
The other three guides produced the following valuations, C £7,200, G £7,660  and C2 
£7,868. These valuations  include the extras that Mr K had on his car. Mr Ks own valuation 
using guide P also includes the extras but at £8,812 its significantly higher than the other  
three. For that reason I dont think its fair to take it into account when deciding what  a fair 
offer would be. 
For clarification  Id like to explain to Mr K that the only valuation that is affected by time is P. 
Thats because it wont return any results if its more  than three months  after the loss. Thats 
why our investigator wasnt able to generate  his own valuation  using this guide. However the 
other three guides  show valuations at the date of loss. And the valuations will remain the 
same at the date of loss regardless of when the valuations  are produced.  So those arent 
affected by the passage  of time.  
The average of £7,200,  £7,660 and £7,868 is £7,576. This is higher than esures  offer. For 
that reason I think esure should  pay the difference which I work  out to be £438.  It should add 
simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date of Mr Ks claim to the date it 
makes payment.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im upholding this complaint.  esure Insurance  Limited must pay Mr K 
£7,576 for the loss of his car subject  to the policy excess. If its already paid him what it 
originally offered (£7,138 less the policy excess) it must only pay the difference. 
esure Insurance Limited  must add interest  to the amount it pays above  at a yearly  rate of 8% 
simple from the date of the claim  to the date it makes payment*.
Ref: DRN48118493Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
If esure Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr K a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN4811849