K821x#15Complaint
Mr S complains that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) continued to apply interest to his loan 
when he was on a debt management  plan (DMP)  meaning his debt wasnt being reduced.
Background
Mr S took out a loan with ELL in May 2015  over a term of 60 months.
In September  2017 Mr S found himself experiencing financial  difficulties  and entered into a 
DMP. The debt management company  contacted ELL on Mr Ss behalf proposing a payment 
plan. They asked  ELL to consider stopping or reducing interest charges.
ELL wrote to Mr S on 23 October 2017. The letter  confirmed that they were accepting a 
revised monthly payment for a further six months.  The letter said that a review  would  take 
place after six months if payments  werent maintained. The letter informed Mr S that it would 
take longer to pay the loan and told him it would be in his best interests to revert to the 
original payments as soon  as possible.
Mr S explained that in September 2018  he became worried that the overall size of the debt 
with ELL wasnt being reduced by the payments  he was making. He complained to ELL that 
they should have frozen  interest  on his account  in response to his financial difficulties.
In response they explained in general  terms how the approach they take complies with 
industry rules. The letter  didnt refer to specific details of Mr Ss loan or explain what  theyd 
done in his case or why. The letter explained ELL were not obliged to freeze  interest on 
loans though and that theyd only do that for loans that had defaulted.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied with this response and brought his complaint to us. He complained that 
ELL refused to freeze  interest, had front loaded the interest on his loan and that he didnt 
think his DMP was reducing his debt. He didnt understand why ELL had not frozen  interest 
as he thought hed defaulted in September 2017  when he missed a payment.
Our investigator felt that ELL had acted reasonably when they accepted the DMP. But he felt 
that ELL should  have done more  to help when Mr S contacted them  in 2018 requesting an 
interest freeze. Our investigator thought that the monthly payments under the DMP were  
contributing more to the interest charges than the loan balance  and stated that it was 
reasonably clear that the level of debt was increasing because of the interest charges. 
Because of this he felt that it wouldve been fairer if ELL had frozen interest.  He 
recommended that ELL refund the interest  added to the loan from September 2018,  and that 
interest be frozen until Mr S could afford  to make increased payments.
ELL disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. ELL felt theyd  treated Mr S fairly. 
They said that the DMP meant that interest  was reduced from 52.9% to 16.15%  a year, and 
the account was fixed  so that Mr S wouldnt pay back more than was on the original contract. 
They pointed out that if Mr S increased  payments, he may end up paying less interest than 
would have originally  been the case.
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN40698212Im of the view that ELL probably  made  enough allowances  in response to Mr Ss financial 
difficulties when contacted about  the debt management plan. Im minded to say though  that 
they didnt do enough to communicate this to Mr S. Ill explain why. 
Mr S brought this complaint to us because he was really worried that his debt with ELL was 
increasing and putting his DMP at risk. Whatever  correspondence and explanations that hed 
been given by ELL hadnt addressed his concerns. Our investigator concluded that the 
reduced payments  wouldnt  have  been  paying off the debt. I think  this was wrong however.
In ELLs  response  to our investigators view they spelled out more clearly  what  they were 
doing with Mr Ss loan.  They provided reassurance that although the term would be longer, 
Mr S would never end up paying more than would  have been the case on the original loan.
ELL clarified  that the original loan for £4,000 when paid back  over 60 months  would have 
meant payments  totalling £11,607.60. When Mr S contacted  ELL in September 2017 hed 
made repayments totalling £5,223.42.  In effect  the balance  on the original debt were it to 
continue being  paid off as agreed  would have been  £6,384.18. ELL explained that theyd 
agreed monthly payments of £60.19 for 106 months. This would have meant  that Mr S would 
be paying his loan off over a much longer period, but that his debt would continue  to be 
reducing each  year.  The subsequent statements for the loan confirmed that the debt was 
reducing in line with this revised  payment schedule. I couldnt find a clear  explanation of this 
outside of ELLs correspondence with the Financial  Ombudsman Service  though.
Mr S was sent annual  statements for his loan, so I checked these to understand what  had 
happened. They showed the monthly payments, the interest added  and the balance  of the 
loan at the end of each  year.  Im satisfied that even after the DMP was in place the debt did 
continue to be reduced. The statements confirm  that the interest wasnt front loaded. The 
interest that was added after the DMP reduced  significantly. So I think  they show  interest 
was applied to the loan at a lower yearly  rate. 
The statements  also show that no penalty charge was added when Mr S missed a payment 
in September  2017 before  the start of his DMP. Within the terms of the loan ELL could  have 
applied the charge for a late payment and in waiving it showed consideration for Mr Ss 
circumstances. ELL did not default the loan for the missed payment which I think was fair. 
He had missed just one payment and it was clear from the DMP why. It was still possible for 
Mr S to continue paying off his loan and defaulting it would have adversely affected Mr Ss 
credit rating.
We expect businesses to treat customers in financial difficulty in a fair and reasonable way. 
Wed expect a business  to help a customer find a way to pay off their debt that was fair and 
affordable. The CONC rules, that govern  industry conduct, give a range of options for 
businesses to consider  where customers are in financial hardship. Freezing interest was 
amongst those options but it was for ELL to decide what  the most appropriate ways to help 
Mr S were  in the circumstances. I cant say ELL had to freeze interest  but need to be 
satisfied that what  they did do was fair and reasonable.
Im minded  to say that what ELL did with the debt was reasonable. Affordable terms were 
put in place and Mr Ss debt continued  to be reduced on what were  effectively rescheduled 
payments.
Whilst Im minded to say that ELL did enough  to help Mr S manage  his debt with them, I 
dont think they made  this clear to him. I dont feel the letter he was sent accepting  the DMP 
Ref: DRN40698213explained what would happen. It implied  it was a temporary measure and did nothing  to 
provide any reassurance to Mr S about  interest on the loan. 
I dont think the statements made  it clear  to Mr S either. They said interest would continue to 
be applied  daily and the only interest  rate shown on the statement was still 52.9%.  Each  
statement had a warning  at the bottom telling Mr S that making reduced payments (including  
on a DMP) would  increase the total amount payable over the term. The statements did show 
an increase in the term from 60 months after the DMP was agreed, but in general I am of the 
view that they added to the confusion.  
ELL had an opportunity to make the position  clearer when Mr S complained  but their 
response failed  to do that. I asked what ELL did to let Mr S know what  was happening  with 
his loan. I was told that they think the onus  was on the debt management company to 
explain the details  as they were  acting on his behalf. I dont agree. Mr S was still their 
customer.
For the above reasons Im minded to disagree  with the view of our investigator. I know  Mr S 
will be disappointed with this change in view, but I dont think ELL need  to do anything  to put 
things right with the loan.  I think it was unfair  not to explain what they were  doing to help Mr 
S which caused him a great deal of worry over a long period of time. I think Mr S should be 
paid compensation for the trouble and upset  ELL caused. I think  £150 would be reasonable 
in the circumstances.
The response  to my provisional  decision
Mr S was disappointed but had nothing else to be taken into consideration.
ELL had no further  comments.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S and ELL have  both had the opportunity to come back  to me with anything  else that they 
wanted me to consider following my provisional decision. I have therefore considered all 
available information  in this complaint and for the reasons  given above  my provisional  
decision remains unchanged.
My final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given, I partially  uphold this complaint, and direct  Everyday  Lending 
Limited to pay Mr S £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Gary Lane
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4069821