K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that she was mis-sold  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
associated with her mortgage  by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS).
background
Ms F took out a mortgage with RBS in December  2008. In October 2009 she purchased  a 
PPI policy  which was intended to cover the repayments on her mortgage if she was off work 
through unemployment, accident or sickness.
Ms F has complained that the PPI was mis-sold. Also that excess  commission was taken  by 
RBS related to the PPI premiums.
RBS said the PPI wasnt mis-sold and that the mortgage Ms F took out didnt fall within  the 
rules and guidance that had been introduced to address excess  commission  and profit  
share.
Ms F wasnt happy with RBS response  so she brought  her complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator said that they didnt  think that the PPI was mis-sold  and that as the 
mortgage was what is known as a regulated mortgage the business  didnt have  to refund 
any commission paid with the PPI premiums. 
Ms F remained  unhappy and asked  for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Fs case.
Ms F has indicated that she recalls  being  told that her mortgage application would only be 
approved if she took out the PPI as it was a requirement of the mortgage. She also says she 
signed the PPI application  at the same  time she completed the mortgage  application.   Ms F 
says she wouldnt have  taken out the PPI if shed had a choice as she had some  savings 
and family  support, so she would have been able to manage without  the PPI if unable to 
work.
The records  provided  by RBS show that Ms Fs mortgage application was made in 
December 2008  and it commenced  in January  2009. However, there  is nothing  to show  that 
the PPI was applied for at the same time. 
The PPI application  form, which  is a totally separate document to the mortgage application, 
is dated October 2009. This document shows the benefit that would be paid by the PPI and 
the monthly premium  that would be charged. There has also been provided a direct debit 
form that was completed to tell her bank to make the payments for the PPI and this direct  
debit document  is dated the same  date as the PPI application form. 
I can also see that the PPI application form has a received stamp  on it, showing it was 
received by RBS three days after the date of the signature shown  on the PPI application.
Ref: DRN45826722This all happened  over ten years ago and I have  to base my findings on what  is most likely 
to have happened and take into account that memories can fade over time. 
Taking all these factors into account I think the PPI application form was completed and 
submitted by Ms F in October 2009,  some  ten months after the mortgage  started. So I dont 
think at the time Ms F would have  been  told she had to have the PPI to have her mortgage  
application approved, as her mortgage  was already  in place.
Looking at Ms Fs circumstances at the time she took out the PPI Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold  for the following reasons:- 
Taking account of the documents completed  and the fact the PPI was taken out 
some months after the mortgage  had started, I think Ms F was aware she had a 
choice whether to have the policy or not.
As the PPI application form was date stamped on receipt by the business it seems it 
was completed by Ms F and returned  to the bank  by post or hand delivered.  
Considering this and the records of RBS from the time,  I dont think RBS 
recommended the PPI to Ms F. So it didnt need  to check it was suitable for her. But 
it did need to make sure Ms F had all the information needed to decide if the PPI was 
right for her.
Its possible the information RBS gave Ms F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think  she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted  
this type of cover. 
Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover, for example having 
any medical conditions  she already  knew  about. So I think  the PPI would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong.
Ms Fs employer would pay some sick pay if she was unwell. But the PPI wouldve 
paid a benefit in addition  to any sick pay and potentially for longer. 
I note that Ms F says she had a savings  account  and could obtain  family support if 
unable to work. But there was no guarantee that at a particular  time her family would 
have been able to provide the finance  to pay her mortgage and any savings could 
have been used for other expenses.
 
The cost and benefit of the policy was set out on the PPI application form and also 
Ms F paid a separate  direct debit for the PPI. So I think  she should  have known  the 
costs and the PPI would have provided  a useful benefit.  
From  the information Ive seen it also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So taking 
everything into account, even if the information provided was not as clear and full as 
it couldve been, I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put Ms F 
off taking out the cover.
It follows I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by RBS.  I think at the time Ms F was aware she 
had a choice whether  to take it out and she thought it would be useful to her.
Ref: DRN45826723Ive also considered if any commission that would  have been part of the PPI premiums  
would need to be refunded by RBS. However, the type of mortgage Ms F took out, known as 
a regulated mortgage, is not affected by the rules  and guidance  put in place by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  relating  to this. So no excess commission or profit share is due to be 
refunded.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold  to Ms F by 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  and Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4582672