K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that Indigo Michael Limited, trading at the time as SafetyNet Credit, 
(Indigo Michael) approved credit  for her when she could not afford  it.
background and findings
I attach my provisional decision dated 3 September 2019, which forms part of this final 
decision and should be read with it. In it I explained why I intended to uphold  Mrs Rs 
complaint in part. Both parties had time to provide any further comments  by 
17 September 2019 before I reached  a further  decision. Both parties  were  emailed  again  on 
12 September 2019 to remind them of the reply  date and having checked the received 
emails nothing has been sent to us. I think that it is fair that I conclude  the complaint process 
for Mrs R by issuing my final decision.  
Having reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable then my findings are the same as those set out in my provisional decision dated 
3 September 2019. I uphold Mrs Rs complaint in part. 
how to put things right
Indigo Michael needs to put things  right for Mrs R by doing as follows:  
refund  all interest paid on the facility from February 2014; and 
pay 8% simple interest* a year on all refunds from the date of payment  to the date of 
settlement; and
waive any outstanding  interest or charges and should there be an outstanding capital 
amount owed this can be offset against  the refund; any remaining refund should then 
be paid to Mrs R; and
remove any negative payment information about the facility from her credit  file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Indigo  Michael  to take off tax from this interest and it must give 
Mrs R a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Rs complaint in part and direct that Indigo Michael 
Limited do as I have set out above. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  
I am required to ask Mrs R to accept or reject my decision on or before 23 October 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN48765042my provisional decision dated 3 September 2019
background
The credit  Indigo Michael offered was a running  account credit facility  where a consumer could either  
request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would be deposited into their nominated bank account 
once their account balance fell below the safety net amount of the customers choosing.  There was 
the option  for the customer to make manual withdrawals.  The obligation  on the customer  was that 
they have to repay  at least a minimum amount each month. 
A feature of the facility  was that if the consumers  bank account balance dropped below a pre-set 
amount then Indigo Michael would effectively transfer money into that account  to keep it above a 
certain balance. This was a feature often  used to avoid straying into an unauthorised  overdraft. Or if 
the pre-set  limit was set to avoid going beyond the limit for an authorised  overdraft then the net effect 
was the same  avoidance  of unauthorised overdraft fees and charges. 
Mrs R was given a facility with a £100 limit in December 2012. It was increased to £250 in 
February 2014. 
Indigo Michael says that it carried out checks about Mrs R with a credit bureau and was able to 
analyse her real behaviour by analysing her transactional history from her bank account  debits and 
credits. It says that these  continued on a weekly  basis to ensure that any credit offered and any 
subsequent increases in the credit limit remained affordable.
It also explained  that By conducting in-depth affordability assessments which go way beyond what  
anyone else on the market does, we can properly  determining whether credit should  be provided.
Mrs R says she was in serious financial difficulty at the time and she does not accept  that the checks  
carried out by Indigo Michael were acceptable. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  at this complaint and his view was that Indigo Michael had carried out 
full and proper checks and that the picture it would have gained from doing that presented it with a 
picture of Mrs Rs financial situation. He was able to see that before Indigo Michael  granted the 
facility, Mrs R had taken  some short term loans but that would not have been enough for Indigo 
Michael to decline the facility  for Mrs R. And he said that in his view Indigo  Michael would  not have 
been aware  of any doorstep loans.
During the time Mrs R had the facility with Indigo Michael, monitoring of her account  would  have 
revealed that on average her balance was £570 and her account was overdrawn on 13 occasions  for 
the whole period  she was an Indigo Michael  customer. 
Mrs R did not agree with our adjudicators opinion. She says that the minimum repayment figure of 
£20 was never applied and that large  sums were taken from her account  to repay what she owed. 
She explained that she had heavy commitments to other payday lenders  and so if Indigo Michael  had 
been monitoring her bank account transactions it would have  seen that she was struggling, 
particularly during  the summer of 2013. 
Mrs R refers to a County Court Judgement  (CCJ)  which  she says would  have been on her record. 
Mrs R summarises by saying (her words):   
The argument  of the minimum payment I do not accept, as this was never the case. Also the 
frequency of the withdrawals  and the increase in level of what I could borrow should  never have 
happened as my circumstances were getting worse over time.  This is evident  in the level of time used 
Indigo Michael and the amount of payments made.
Ref: DRN48765043Our adjudicators second  opinion pointed out the following:
Indigo  Michael  was not a payday lender and each case  was considered individually
a CCJ from five years before the first credit facility was offered would not likely  have made  a 
difference to a credit  providers decision to provide a facility  like that offered by Indigo Michael
the customer had the option to make the minimum repayment  amount (£20)  rather than the 
full amount each month
Mrs R explained that she had another CCJ in May 2014. 
The Indigo Michael account had an outstanding balance  on it of £350. It reported the account  as 
being in default in October 2015. 
The complaint remains unresolved and has been passed  to me for a decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the credit account was offered.
A lender  should gather  enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on the credit 
limit being offered. Although  the guidance  and rules  themselves  did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key 
element was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a number  of 
different things, including how much was being advanced and the credit limit set and whether it could 
be repaid within a reasonable time. . 
The initial lending  decision in December  2012 appears to have been reasonable. The limit set was for 
£100 and although I can see that Mrs R had a financial  history which  included an historic  County 
Court Judgment (CCJ)  and some  relatively  recent defaults, the sum was relatively  small and the 
minimum repayment  which Mrs R could  have arranged  to repay  was likely  affordable. So I dont think 
Indigo Michael was wrong to have approved the facility  initially. 
As the account was being used I can see that Mrs R repaid what  was due and then often there was 
several days before additional funds  were  requested.  Those  additional  draw-down requests often  
were less than the amount  Mrs R had repaid. And in May 2013 and September 2013 some manual 
repayments were made which demonstrates to me that Mrs R was making  specific payments to the 
account to repay, rather than the automated payment system removing the money  from her account. 
However when the increase in the credit limit was dealt with in February  2014 I do not think  that the 
increase to £250 was appropriate. I plan to uphold  Mrs Rs complaint in relation to that increase from 
January 2014 and the transactions which followed it. 
By the time this increase in the credit limit was approved, Mrs R had been a customer for over a year. 
And looking at some  of the information Indigo Michael  had then I notice an absence of an additional  
credit check. I do think that what Indigo Michael  had seen on the earlier credit  report would have been 
enough for it to consider it proportionate and reasonable to obtain another  before approving such a 
large increase in credit  limit. 
In addition I can see that Indigo Michael  has attributed some payments from a claims management  
company in February 2013 as salary when  its more likely compensation arising from a claim. So I 
think that this may have led to an incorrect analysis of her financial position. After all, Indigo Michael 
couldnt be confident that this money would  be received every month, and so, in the circumstances,  I 
dont consider it reasonable  that this was counted as a salary.
And whereas Indigo Michael has said that her salary had increased by January 2014 I do not agree. It 
does not appear to have altered much although I can see that her employer may have changed. 
Ref: DRN48765044So considering that Indigo Michael did have access to Mrs Rs bank statements and so was able to 
carry out in-depth assessments before  approving a credit increase, I do not think  it was correctly done  
here.
I plan to uphold from the credit limit increase  in February 2014.
Mrs R refers to her second CCJ in May 2014 which was around  the time Mrs R stopped  repaying 
Indigo Michael. A CCJ at that time was not likely to have  had an impact on any lending decision  by 
Indigo Michael as these  had already been done.  
end of extract
Ref: DRN4876504