K820x#14complaint
On behalf of the estate of the late Mrs P, Mr A complains Aviva Equity Release UK Limited 
hasnt provided  evidence Mrs P received the cheque it sent her for a second equity release 
loan in 2006. And Aviva wrongly  refuses to accept  repayment in full of the first loan until it 
knows what happened to the cheque.
background
Mr As a joint executor  of the estate  of the late Mrs P. He brings  this complaint on the 
estates behalf  with the agreement of the other executors. 
Mrs P took out an equity  release mortgage for around £20,000 with Aviva in October 2003. 
She borrowed a further £25,000 in December 2006. 
The cheque for the second loan was cashed  in December 2006. But Mr A says theres no 
record of the cheque being  received by Mrs P. Mr A believes the cheque  was stolen and 
says Aviva didnt take precautions to ensure the cheque  reached Mrs P. He complains Aviva 
delayed investigating  things so relevant information is no longer available.  
Mr A wanted  Aviva  to agree the estate could pay off the first loan in full to avoid additional  
interest being charged to that loan.  But Avivas said it will divide any payment the estate  
makes between the two loans and possibly carry out a reconciliation  later depending on 
what happens about the missing funds. Mr A says since Mrs P never received the second 
loan, theres nothing for the estate to repay  on that.
Aviva didnt uphold  the complaint but said it will consider paying some of Mrs Ps solicitors  
costs arising from its delay in responding to their enquiries. Mr A brought the complaint to 
this service. Our investigator didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong and didnt uphold 
the complaint.  So Ive reviewed everything afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After taking out the equity release mortgage with Aviva in October 2003, Mrs P applied to 
borrow more money  in 2006.
Avivas records  show  Mrs P spoke to an Aviva adviser in early  November 2006 and 
completed an application form to borrow a further  £45,000. The application was signed by 
Mrs P and the Aviva adviser. It noted  Mrs P hadnt wanted to bring a relative or friend to the 
discussion, shed  spoken to her family  about  the borrowing  and she didnt feel it was 
necessary for them to attend. 
Shortly afterwards Aviva wrote to Mrs P to confirm how the loan was made up. It included a 
gift to her godson,  understood  to be Mr A, of £25,000, money for home improvements, 
additional income and an emergency fund. A later letter from Aviva said Mrs P had told 
Aviva over the phone  shed now be giving her godson £5,000, so she only wanted  to borrow 
£25,000.
Ref: DRN44265622Aviva issued an offer to Mrs P for £25,000  on 26 November 2006.  And on 1 December 2006 
Aviva wrote to tell Mrs P the loan had completed and it had sent her the cheque separately. 
The letter was sent to Mrs Ps home address and Aviva says the cheque  was sent there too.
Mr As explained Mrs P was elderly  and housebound in 2006.  Shed needed support with her 
finances and Mr A suspected shed been subject to financial abuse. Hed been helping  her 
with financial matters  for some years. Although hed stepped away  from doing  this by the 
time of the second loan, hes said he was aware of the application. And he thinks  her 
solicitors were involved in the application  in some way.
Avivas records  show  the cheque was cashed on 6 December 2006. Avivas  explained  the 
cheque was non-transferable. It thinks its unlikely anyone other than Mrs P wouldve cashed  
it. But Aviva  says it would rely on the bank cashing  the cheque  to spot if the cheque had 
been fraudulently  altered. Aviva cant say which bank  account the cheque was cashed  into. 
It says any records which might  show  this were destroyed in line with the Data  Protection  Act 
time limits. 
Theres no record in Mrs Ps bank accounts of the cheque for £25,000  being  paid in. Mr As 
confident he wouldve known if Mrs P had any accounts other  than those he knew  about 
from the time he spent  helping Mrs P with her finances. He didnt find any evidence of 
another account when he cleared out her house  after she passed away  in early 2018. The 
solicitors who were  appointed as Mrs Ps attorneys at some point after 2006 havent been  
able to find any records of the payment either. Mr A thinks its possible, in light of the earlier 
financial abuse hes aware of, the cheque was stolen.
Ive no reason to doubt what Mr As said about  Mrs Ps vulnerability.  And its very 
unfortunate if the cheque was stolen as he suspects. But I have to consider whether Avivas 
done anything  wrong. And based  on all the circumstances, I dont think it has.
Bearing everything in mind, if theres any doubt  about it, I think  Aviva  made  the second loan 
to Mrs P. Mr As explained Mrs Ps memory faded over time.  But Mrs P made some clear 
choices about  the amount and breakdown of the second loan in 2006 so I think she 
understood what she was doing at the time.  And I would  expect her to have noticed if she 
hadnt received  the cheque at the time.  
On balance I think Aviva posted the cheque on or about 1 December 2006. It cant  say 
whether or not the cheque  was sent by recorded delivery or a similar method. Mr As 
suggested a safer method  of sending the loan to Mrs P such as BACS shouldve been used. 
Aviva wouldnt  make cheques payable to third parties and Mrs P had told Aviva shed like a 
cheque made payable to her. I think it was reasonable  for Aviva  to post it. Mrs P had told 
Aviva shed like a cheque  payable to her. And I think it was reasonable for Aviva  to expect 
the cheque would reach Mrs P at her home  address. 
If the cheque  was stolen, Aviva  had no control over that. And responsibility for making sure 
the cheque hadnt been fraudulently altered rested with the bank into which  the cheque was 
paid. This wasnt something Aviva  could influence either. And if Mrs P did receive the 
cheque and then,  as a result  of financial abuse by a third party, was pressured or deceived  
into handing over the money, Aviva isnt responsible for that either  the third party is.
Mr As concerned Aviva delayed looking into what had happened when Mrs Ps solicitors 
contacted it in 2017 and then said it couldnt address some of issues  due to the time that had 
passed. 
Ref: DRN44265623It wasnt until August 2017,  when  Mrs Ps solicitors contacted Aviva about  the loan, it knew  
there was a concern Mrs P hadnt  got the cheque. Mrs P didnt tell Aviva she hadnt received 
the money in December  2006. Although I acknowledge Mr As been  unable to find any 
amongst Mrs Ps records, Aviva  was sending her annual statements about  the second  loan.  
And no concerns  were  raised  by Mrs P or anyone on her behalf arising from those. Its 
possible Aviva  wouldve been  able to find more information about what happened to the 
cheque if theyd known  of the issue sooner.
 
Mr As suggested Avivas response was needed  before  questions  such as whether Mrs P 
had another bank account could be put to her and she passed away before  she could be 
asked. Mr As said Mrs P was worried about having  signed her house away and hes said 
her memory was fading. I think  Mr A and Mrs Ps solicitors couldve  asked  those sorts of 
questions at the same time they were  making enquiries of Aviva  given these concerns. 
Even if Aviva had responded to the 2017 enquiries  sooner, I think  its unlikely it wouldve 
been able to provide any more information than it provided later on. Avivas explained bank 
records relating to the cheque were destroyed after seven years, so by 2013. I dont think  
any delay by Aviva has affected the information its been able to get. 
Avivas said it will consider  paying some of Mrs Ps solicitors costs arising from its delay in 
responding to enquiries. In the circumstances, I think this is fair. 
Overall I think  Avivas  carried  out a reasonable investigation and doesnt  need to do anything 
else. While  I appreciate Mr As been  told the police wouldnt  investigate the possible theft of 
the cheque as a priority,  its open  to the executors of Mrs Ps estate to pursue things with the 
police. But I dont think this is something  Aviva has to do. 
Mr As unhappy Aviva  wont accept a payment  to pay off the first loan and interest on that 
loan. Avivas said it would apply any payment to reduce both loans and possibly carry out a 
reconciliation depending on what happens about the missing funds. No payments been  
made in respect  of either  loan and Avivas still charging interest on both of them.
Under the terms and conditions  of the mortgage both loans had to be repaid following 
Mrs Ps death in February 2018.  And Aviva can take action to repossess the property if 
either of the loans  isnt repaid within a reasonable time. The first loan is subject to a higher 
rate of interest than the second loan. So I can see a saving wouldve been  made  if Aviva  has 
let the estate repay the first loan in full. But Aviva  offered to carry out reconciliation once  the 
complaint was resolved. And it hasnt taken steps  to repossess the property even though  the 
loans havent  been repaid. I think its behaved reasonably  and treated the estate fairly in the 
circumstances.
 
Bearing all the circumstances in mind, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold the 
complaint Mr A brings  on behalf  of the estate of Mrs P.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A as a joint 
executor of the estate of the late Mrs P to accept  or reject my decision before 5 May 2019.
Ref: DRN44265624Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4426562