K822xcomplaint
Mrs S has complained about three  instalment loans Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as 
Likely Loans) provided to her. Amongst other things, shes said that the loans were  
unaffordable and shouldnt have been approved.
background
This complaint is about three loans Mrs S was provided with between August 2014  and 
January 2017.  His borrowing history  is as follows:
Loan Date taken Amount Received Consolidation Term Repayment
1 May 2016 £1000 £1000 None 24 months £75.96
2 August 2017 £1100.88* £500 Loan 1 (£600.88) 24 months £83.63
3 February 2018 £1537.92* £500 Loan 2 (£1037.92) 24 months £116.82
* amount includes extra borrowed to settle previous loan
One of our investigators  looked at what Likely Loans  and Mrs S said. She thought that it was 
unfair for Likely Loans to have provided these loans to Mrs S. Likely Loans disagreed  and as 
it did so the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
the regulatory framework
Likely Loans provided these loans to Mrs S while it was authorised  and regulated by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA).
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  which apply to providers of consumer credit  like Likely  Loans.      
CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations  in relation to responsible lending. And CONC 6 sets out 
a firms obligations after a consumer has entered into a regulated agreement.
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the Office  of Fair Tradings (OFT) 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) and the rules set out in CONC 5 and CONC 6. As is 
evident from the following extracts, the FCAs CONC rules  specifically note and refer back  to 
sections of the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions.
Ref: DRN44508312Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account  the information  of which  
the firm is aware  at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
Ref: DRN44508313(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are two overarching  questions I need  to consider in order to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  These questions  are:
Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that   
Mrs S would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make  fair lending  decisions?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mrs S wouldve been  able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Likely Loans ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs S 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  and so shouldnt 
have provided  further loans?
Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ref: DRN44508314If I determine that Likely Loans didnt  act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs S and 
that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider  what  is fair compensation.
Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mrs S 
would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way?
The rules  and regulations in place  at the time Likely Loans lent to Mrs S required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mrs S could afford to repay his 
loan in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The affordability checks had to be borrower-focused   so Likely Loans had to think about 
whether Mrs S would  be able to repay  the loan sustainably. In practice  this meant  that Likely 
Loans had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mrs S undue 
difficulty or adverse  consequences.  In other  words,  it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to 
simply think about the likelihood of it getting  its money back, it had to consider the impact of 
loan repayments  on Mrs S.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount  / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate  check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an 
extended period);  and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve be for a given loan application  including (but not limited  to) any indications  of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive thought 
about all the relevant factors in this case.
Before I look in more  detail at whether the checks that Likely Loans completed for Mrs S 
loans were proportionate, I have some  overall  observations about its defence of its case.
Ref: DRN44508315Likely Loans says that it carried out its standard credit assessment which included a review  
of Mrs S credit report, and this together with the income and expenditure information 
provided by Mrs S was inputted into its credit  scoring model. It would only have proceeded 
with Mrs S application(s) if it met the minimum approval threshold score. 
From what  I can see, Likely Loans  appears  to be relying on heavily on Mrs S application 
having been assessed by its systems  and against  its scoring model. But it hasnt provided  
any detail about  its scoring model - I get the impression that it expects us to simply accept  its 
model resulted  in fair lending  decisions here. 
To be clear, Likely Loans is responsible for the lending approved  by its systems. This service 
cannot and will not search through coded information looking for evidence to support Likely 
Loans defence of its model and Mrs S complaint.  Id also point out that Mrs S 
applications(s), at least, meeting Likely Loans  minimum  approval  threshold score doesnt 
provide me with the same confidence  it appears  to provide Likely Loans with. And it isnt in 
itself demonstrative  of the fact that its credit scoring model leads to fair lending  decisions. 
Given Likely Loans insists  that Mrs S loan was responsibly lent, it ought  to know  and have 
explained  how it interpreted the information it gathered and how its model led to 
responsible lending decisions being  made in this case. Without  this explanation from Likely  
Loans, I cannot and will not take it as read that this lending decision was fair simply because 
its model approved  Mrs S application.
Were Likely Loans checks reasonable and proportionate?
Having carefully thought  about what Likely Loans has said,  I dont think  that its checks did go 
far enough.
As Ive set out above, CONC 5.2.4G(2) provides some guidance on the proportionality of 
assessments. And it makes it clear that the risk of credit not being sustainable directly  
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge  for credit relative to the 
customers financial situation.  
While there  is an argument for saying  that the amount of Mrs S monthly loan payments 
meant that Likely Loans checks  were reasonable and proportionate, Im mindful that Likely 
Loans says that it reviewed Mrs S credit file. Likely  Loans  hasnt  provided  the details of what 
its credit  file review showed.  But the information Mrs S has provided showed  that she had 
three recent defaults  which  totalled  a considerable sum. 
Taking this into account, I think  that Likely Loans needed to get a thorough understanding of 
Mrs S financial position.  So as well as asking Mrs S about  the details of her income and 
expenditure, I think that Likely  Loans needed to take steps to verify what it was being told by 
Mrs S. It could  have done this by asking for information such as bank statements, copies of 
bills, or even proof of Mrs S income. 
Indeed CONC  5.3.1G(4)(b) says that where  it takes income or expenditure into account,  it is 
not generally sufficient  for a firm to rely solely on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer. Likely Loans might have looked at Mrs S credit  file. But I cant  see that it properly 
scrutinised what its credit  search  is likely  to have shown. For example, I cant see that it 
asked Mrs S for an explanation regarding any of her defaulted accounts. 
Ref: DRN44508316As theres  no evidence  that Likely Loans  did properly scrutinise  the information on the credit 
check, or that it asked Mrs S to provide  documentary evidence  to support the income  and 
expenditure declaration made,  I dont  think it completed reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks before providing loan one. And as Likely  Loans  carried  out the same or 
similar checks for loans two and three,  I also think that it failed to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks for these loans too. 
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have indicated to Likely  Loans  that Mrs S would 
have been unable to sustainably repay the loans?
As proportionate  checks werent carried out for this loan, I cant say for sure what they 
wouldve shown. So I need to decide  whether it is more likely than not that a proportionate 
check would  have told Likely Loans  that it was unfair  to offer this loan to Mrs S. 
Mrs S has provided us with evidence  of her financial circumstances at the time she applied  
for these  loans. Of course,  I accept different checks might show  different things. And just 
because something  shows up in the information Mrs S has provided,  it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Likely Loans  mightve carried out. But in the absence  of 
anything else from Likely Loans  showing  what this information would have shown, I think its 
perfectly fair and reasonable to place considerable weight on it as an indication  of what    
Mrs S financial circumstances were  likely  to have been at the time.
Bearing in mind Likely Loans response to our investigators assessment, I think that it is 
important for me to start by saying that Likely Loans  was required to establish  whether Mrs S 
could sustainably make  her loan repayments  not whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow  that 
this is the case.  This is because CONC defines  sustainable  as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that if a lender realises, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  the information  Mrs S has provided in light of this. 
The information Ive been provided  with, which our investigators assessment covered in 
some detail, shows that Mrs S was struggling to manage her existing credit commitments. 
As our investigators assessment explained,  she had recently defaulted  on three loans and 
was in arrears on others. And other than taking out further expensive credit  to make her 
payments, which  was unsustainable,  she didnt  appear to have any reasonable plan for 
paying back her existing commitments. 
Bearing this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks ought  fairly and 
reasonably to have  alerted Likely Loans  to the fact that there was little reasonable prospect 
of Mrs S being able to sustainably repay  loan one.
  
Ref: DRN44508317Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point where 
Likely Loans ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs S indebtedness in a 
way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further 
loans?
For the sake of completeness, I think that its also helpful for me to explain that even though  
I did do so, I dont think that it was necessary for me to have recreated affordability checks 
for loans  two and three. I say this because in addition to assessing  the affordability  of each 
individual loan provided to Mrs S by Likely Loans, I also think its fair and reasonable to look 
at the overall pattern of lending. 
Im mindful here that the relevant rules  and guidance  as summarised  in the earlier part of 
this decision make it clear that a lender  shouldnt  continue lending  where  the loans are 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful and/or its apparent that the customer  may be 
experiencing financial difficulties. And I think by loan two, Likely  Loans  ought fairly and 
reasonably to have  realised that Mrs S loans  had become unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful. 
The factors  that lead me to conclude  that Likely Loans ought to have realised the loans from 
loan two were unsustainable or otherwise harmful are:
Mrs S approaching for further  funds while she still had an outstanding balance;
the remaining defaults on Mrs S credit file; 
Likely Loans own figures showing that Mrs S debts elsewhere  were increasing;
Mrs S token payments to a number  of existing providers.
All of the above were clear  indicators  of Mrs S being in a difficult  financial position. Likely 
Loans says that Mrs S made all the payments for loan one and two. But as our investigator  
has pointed out, I dont think that this in itself was indicative of Mrs S being  in a financial  
position. I say this especially as Likely Loans chose to focus on this while ignoring the 
defaults on Mrs S credit  file, the token payments she was making to other lenders and     
Mrs S regularly requesting further funds.   
And bearing  in mind  Likely  Loans  obligation to monitor Mrs S repayment record  and offer 
assistance should it appear that she mightve  been experiencing financial difficulties, I think 
that Likely Loans shouldve offered assistance  and/or  a product that would  allow her to 
sustainably repay  what  she owed. But instead of doing this, Likely  Loans  lent further 
amounts and consolidated Mrs S borrowing into additional loans. Increasing the amount she 
had to find each  month  as well as her overall  indebtedness. 
Indeed Mrs S started out with a loan requiring 24 monthly payments of around £75.96 in  
May 2016. Yet by the time of the final loan  approaching the end of what  was the initial  
period of borrowing - Mrs S was borrowing for the third time. She was now required to make 
repayments of £116.82  for a further  24 months too. 
As far as I can see, Likely Loans had advanced  a total of £2000. By the time of loan three 
she had already repaid close to £1500 yet she still owed  approaching £3000.  In my view, 
this is in itself was indicative of Mrs S indebtedness increasing unsustainably and it ought  
Ref: DRN44508318fairly and reasonably to have alerted Likely Loans to the fact that Mrs S clearly wasnt  
freeing himself from her reliance on expensive credit. 
So I think that Likely Loans ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that the loans from 
loans two onwards  were  unsustainable or otherwise  harmful for Mrs S and were unfairly and 
excessively increasing  her overall indebtedness. And so it shouldnt have provided these 
loans to Mrs S.   
Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Likely Loans  acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs S in 
some other way.  
conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought  about the three overarching questions, set out on pages 
three and four of this decision I find that:
Likely Loans didnt  complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mrs S to 
satisfy itself that shed  be able to repay  her loans in a sustainable way; 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have  individually  
shown that Mrs S would  unable  to sustainably make the payments required to these 
loans;
in any event, Likely Loans also ought  fairly and reasonably to have realised that the 
loans from loans  two onwards  were unsustainable or otherwise harmful  for Mrs S and 
were unfairly and excessively increasing her overall indebtedness; 
Likely Loans didnt  also act unfairly  or unreasonably towards  Mrs S in some  other 
way.
The above  findings leave me concluding that Likely Loans unfairly and unreasonably 
provided Mrs S with all three  of her loans.
Did Mrs S lose out as a result of Likely Loans  unfairly and unreasonably providing her with 
her loans?
As Mrs S ended up paying interest and charges on loans that she was unfairly and 
unreasonably provided  with, I think that she lost out because of what Likely  Loans  did wrong. 
So Likely Loans  should put things  right.
      
Ref: DRN44508319fair compensation  what  Likely  Loans  needs to do to put things  right for Mrs S
Ive carefully thought  about what amounts to fair compensation in this case. 
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business   
in so far as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position  they would be in 
now if that wrong hadnt taken place. In essence,  in this case, this would mean Likely Loans 
putting Mrs S in the position shed now be in if he hadnt  been given these loans.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Mrs S 
was given the loans in question and shes used the funds.  So, in these  circumstances, I cant  
undo whats already been  done.  And its simply not possible to put Mrs S back in the position  
she would  be in if she hadnt been  given  these loans in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to fully explain 
the reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Likely Loans to put things 
right in the following way.
interest and charges 
As Ive explained, Mrs S received  the funds for these loans and shes used them. So I think  
its fair that she pays back what she borrowed. In reality its the interest that Mrs S had to 
pay Likely Loans on the loan that is the problem, as she kept having  to find additional  funds 
(usually through borrowing  elsewhere)  to pay this interest. And she then had to borrow again 
to either  repay others or cover the hole left in her finances and she incurred more  interest  
and charges when  she did this. So I think that Likely Loans should refund any interest  and 
charges Mrs S has paid as a result of this loan. 
I think that the fairest way to ensure  that Mrs S is refunded  any interest and charges that she 
may have  paid is to add the total amount  of money she received as a result of being 
provided with all of her loans together. Likely Loans  should then deduct any payments  Mrs S 
made from this amount.  
Likely Loans should treat any payments made  after the payments Mrs S made reached the 
total amount of the money  she received, if there  were any, as overpayments. And to start 
with, I think that Likely  Loans  should  refund any such overpayments  as they will represent 
the interest Mrs S unfairly paid as a result of being  given these loans.
Im also mindful that Mrs S lost the use of the funds  she used to pay the interest and 
charges, I now think that Likely Loans  needs to refund to her. As Mrs S lost the use of these 
funds, I think that she should be compensated for this. We normally ask a business to pay 
8% simple  interest where a consumer hasnt  had the use of funds because its actions 
resulted in something having gone wrong. 
Bearing in mind my conclusions in the paragraph above, I see no reason to depart from our 
usual approach here and I think that awarding  8% per year simple interest, on the interest 
and charges that were paid, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
So Likely Loans  should pay Mrs S 8% per year simple interest on the interest and charges 
she paid from the date those charges were paid,  if they were, to the date it settles Mrs S 
complaint.
Ref: DRN445083110Mrs S credit  file
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on the loans they shouldnt  have 
been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer  is being  refunded  and 
the expectation is they will have repaid, or they should repay what  they owe.
But Im upholding  Mrs S complaint about  loans two and three  because  (as well as them 
being individually unaffordable) I think that what had happened by this stage  ought  fairly and 
reasonably to have  led Likely Loans to realise  that it was increasing  Mrs S indebtedness  in 
a way that was unsustainable or harmful in some other way. 
I think that there were  two main adverse consequences of Likely  Loans  having  given Mrs S 
these loans. Firstly it caused  him to pay interest.  And Ive already  explained  how Mrs S 
should be compensated for this. But I also think that the number of loans  here is likely to 
have had (and continue to have)  implications for Mrs S ability  to access  mainstream credit.  
The greater the presence of these  loans on Mrs S credit file the less likely Mrs S was and is 
able to rehabilitate  her finances and regain access to mainstream credit. And I think  my 
direction in relation to Mrs S credit file needs  to reflect this.
So while I recognise  the importance  of preserving an accurate picture of Mrs S credit  history 
and creditworthiness  so that a lender can make  an informed decision on whether lend to her, 
I think that the mere  presence of this many  loans, of this type, on Mrs S credit  file, in itself,  
constitutes adverse  information. 
And I think this many  high-cost loans appearing on Mrs S credit  file is likely to continue  
unfairly adversely  affecting Mrs S going forwards. In these circumstances, I think  that its fair 
and reasonable for Likely Loans to remove all reference to loans two and three  from Mrs S 
credit file, as the number  of loans in itself is adverse  information. 
All of this means  that I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of Mrs S 
complaint for Likely Loans to put things right in the following way:
add up the total amount of money Mrs S received as a result of having  been given all 
three loans. The repayments Mrs S made  should be deducted  from this amount. Any 
payments made after the total exceeds the amount of money Mrs S was given (in 
other words £2000) should be treated as overpayments and refunded  to Mrs S;
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above overpayments  from the date they 
were paid by Mrs S to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mrs S credit file as a result  of loan one;
remove all reference to loans  two and three from Mrs S credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Likely Loans to take off tax from this interest. Likely  
Loans must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN445083111my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mrs S complaint. Oakbrook Finance Limited  
should pay Mrs S compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4450831