K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains about an insurance  claim following a leak. She says her insurer,  now 
known as HDI Global  Specialty  SE, hasnt covered all of her costs  or compensated her for 
the trouble and upset she suffered. 
background
In February 2018  Mrs D suffered a leak in her kitchen. She contacted her insurance broker  
who advised her to call a plumber. The leak was quite serious and she called the local water 
authority. As the leak was on Mrs Ds property she was told to contact her insurance 
company and a loss adjuster was sent to her house. He arranged  for two contractors to 
tender for the work.
Mrs D said she had to wait for a week to obtain the quotes. She was dealing with soaking 
wet cupboards, carpet and underlay. On 12 March Mrs D said she contacted  the loss 
adjuster again.  Water was seeping into the hall. Mrs D had been told it would take about five 
or six weeks to repair the damage. But five weeks had already passed and the work hadnt  
even started. The kitchen  was finally removed on 10 April. Mrs D said shed  been  advised 
not to use the water  so shed now had to live for six weeks  without  drinking water  or washing 
and cooking facilities.  
At the beginning  of May Mrs D was told by her water company that the work  had been done 
incorrectly. There were a number of faults.  And she was issued with an infringement  notice.  
When Mrs D complained  to her broker a different company  were  engaged to repair the 
damage. Mrs D said they had to start again from scratch.  And the kitchen facilities  were  
reconnected on 27 June 2018. The work  was finally finished in August.
The whole process has made Mrs D ill. She feels six months was an unreasonable  amount 
of time. Shes provided a list of her expenses which she feels she should be compensated 
for. The amount  totals £1891.50. And Mrs D would also like compensation for the amount  of 
time it took to complete  the repairs and the trouble  and upset she was put through.
HDI said it could see Mrs D had suffered damage  from a leaking mains water  pipe. But the 
repairs hadnt met building regulations. So another contractor had carried out the work. HDI 
said the policy didnt  cover Mrs D for lost employment. But in the circumstances it agreed to 
compensate her for 6  days  work together with other additional costs incurred totalling 
£1966.50. HDI also refunded the policy excess of £350.
Mrs D wasnt satisfied with HDIs response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He could see itd taken a long time for Mrs Ds claim to 
be processed and her property returned to an acceptable condition. 
Shed experienced a number of avoidable  delays. And this caused  additional stress, 
inconvenience and expenses. So he felt HDI should  increase the level of compensation from 
£350 to £450 by paying Mrs D an additional  £100.  
Mrs D didnt agree. She didnt think it was a fair amount for what shed been  put through.  
Shed had to live in a stressful environment  and been forced to take increasing levels of 
medication to help her cope. So shes  asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
Ref: DRN48402632my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do sympathise with the amount of disturbance Mrs D has been through. I can see from the 
timeline that the repairs took nearly six months to complete. And during this time Mrs D 
suffered considerable inconvenience  and stress. 
HDI has compensated Mrs D for the costs she incurred while  the repairs were being 
undertaken. And its refunded the policy excess.  HDI has also agreed  to compensate  Mrs D 
for the time she had to take off work. So the amount paid totals £2316.50.
In any claim involving damage from an escape of water  there  is a degree of inconvenience  
and stress.  However Mrs D feels that HDI hasnt compensated her properly. It only covered 
her lost wages for the first contractor.  It didnt take into account  the worry of living  in a house 
that was unfit for habitation. Or the stress caused by the threat of a court case  after the 
water company deemed the work unfit.  So Ive looked carefully at everything thats 
happened and whether  HDI has done enough to put things right.
Once the second contractor was engaged it seems the repairs were carried  out in the 
expected timescale.  But Mrs D shouldve been able to expect the work to be carried out 
promptly and correctly  with the minimum of inconvenience.  And its clear  there  were  
problems with the first contractor in terms of both starting and then carrying out the work to 
the proper standard.
So I think its right that HDI cover the unnecessary  expenses Mrs D incurred during the 
period of disturbance. HDI has accepted the amounts claimed by Mrs D for water,  food, 
laundrette, decoration and other  costs.  And its paid £1420.50 to cover  those  expenses. But I 
do agree  HDI should also take into account the impact of the delays in completing  the work. 
And the additional  stress caused  when Mrs D was threatened with legal action when the 
water company found the initial work was unsatisfactory. 
Mrs Ds policy doesnt cover her for lost work.  But HDI has agreed to pay £546 to cover the 
six and a half days Mrs D was unable  to work  while  the initial  repairs  were being carried out. 
And its also agreed to refund the £350 policy excess Mrs D would  normally have had to pay 
when the work was completed.  So the additional  compensation  paid totals  £896.
I can see our investigator has suggested HDI pay a further £100  which  would take the 
compensation for Mrs Ds trouble and upset  to just under  £1000. And I think thats a fair and 
reasonable response in the circumstances.  Mrs D was put through unnecessary trouble 
through no fault of her own.
I know Mrs D will be unhappy with this outcome. And I do appreciate the level of stress  
Mrs D has been through  while the work  was completed. HDI has refunded  the expenses 
Mrs D incurred during the delayed  and faulty  initial repair  work.  And its also paid a further 
£896 compensation to cover the policy excess and lost work during this period.
But taking into account everything thats happened  I dont think thats quite  enough. I agree 
with our investigator that a further £100 would be fair and reasonable given the nature of the 
complaint and the impact on Mrs D. So my final decision is that HDI should pay Mrs D an 
additional £100 compensation.
Ref: DRN48402633my final decision
My final decision is that the complaint is upheld in part and HDI Global Specialty SE should  
pay Mrs D £100 compensation in addition  to the £2316.50  it has already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4840263