K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that MBNA Limited mis-sold  him payment protection  insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000.  MBNA says that Mr D took 
the policy out during a phone call.
Our adjudicator didnt  feel we should uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion. Mr D is mainly unhappy because he told us didn't ever agree to have 
PPI over the phone.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Mr D told us MBNA sold the PPI over the internet. MBNAs records of this sale show  that it 
sold PPI over the phone  to Mr D.
I dont doubt that Mr D is sure about what hes told us. But it would  be completely 
understandable that Mr D mightve forgotten how he took out this PPI after such  a long time. 
I have to look at all the available information  and decide what I think  is most likely. 
Ive no reason to think that MBNAs record of this sale isnt accurate or shouldnt  be relied 
on. So I think its likely Mr D is mistaken  on this point and that MBA did sell him this PPI 
during a phone  call.
The phone sales process and script  that MBNA staff followed at the time wouldve made 
Mr D aware it was up to him to decide  if he wanted to have  PPI. 
Although hed previously  declined  PPI when he opened his credit card account,  PPI 
wouldve been explained  and offered to him. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr D to be 
able to remember details  of a discussion that took place so long ago. But theres  nothing  to 
suggest that MBNA wouldnt have followed its normal sales  process when speaking to Mr D. 
The PPI wouldve appeared on his credit  card statements following the phone  call. So Mr D 
would've seen  this. If he hadnt  asked for the PPI he couldve taken this up with MBNA at the 
time. Ive seen no information to suggest this is what happened.  
Overall, I dont  think the evidence is strong enough  for me to uphold Mr Ds complaint about 
the way he was sold PPI, just based  on what he recalls now.  I think  its more  likely that 
during the phone call Mr D decided he wanted the benefits PPI offered and it was added to 
his account at his request. I dont think its likely that MBNA wouldve added PPI to his 
account otherwise.
Ref: DRN44665812On balance, based on all the information  I've seen  I find MBNA made Mr D aware that the 
PPI was optional  and he chose to take it.
MBNA didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for him. 
But it still had to make  sure that Mr D had enough  information to make a proper decision 
about whether  PPI was right for him.
Mr D was eligible for the policy. Looking at what hes told us about his circumstances, he 
doesnt appear to have  had significant other means  to pay his credit card bills if he couldnt 
work. 
The policy wouldve covered  Mr D if he was off sick until he was able to go back  to work or 
until his card balance  was paid off. This is longer than he could've depended  on getting sick 
pay. And the policy protected Mr Ds credit  card monthly repayments for up to 12 months if 
he lost his job and was unemployed. 
His pension, life insurance and death in service benefit paid out in different circumstances 
and provided a different sort of cover to the PPI. And having to rely on someone else to help 
out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as everyones 
circumstances can change unexpectedly. So I think that PPI was worthwhile for Mr D. 
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Mr Ds case when he took out the policy. 
I dont think MBNA properly explained  what the policy would cost, or what  it might pay out if 
Mr D made  a claim. But MBNA probably made Mr D aware that hed be charged 68p per 
£100 of his statement balance. Given the benefits PPI offered him, I think  it unlikely Mr D 
wouldve made a different  decision if clearer  information had been provided. On balance 
I think hed still have  taken out the policy. 
This means  MBNA doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  MBNA didnt tell Mr D, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
In coming to my decision, I've taken carefully  into account everything  that Mr D has said in 
response to our adjudicators assessment  in particular about  the way he was sold the PPI. 
Because he feels so strongly that he never took out PPI over the phone, Ive thought about 
whether this would  make  any difference to the outcome of his complaint  and it doesnt. So 
what he says doesnt affect my overall decision. 
Ref: DRN44665813my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does  not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr D.
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Mr D any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN4466581