K821x#15complaint
Mr Js complaint is about the actions of an Appointed  Representative (AR) of TenetConnect 
Services Limited.  He has set out his complaint in the following terms:
I was sold a pension  product (SIPP)  that I feel was not fit for purpose,  I invested myfunds 
in a SIPP that bought  shares in 3 companies  Guardia,  SVS Securities, and Titanium 
InternationalI feel the product was mis sold, and too many shares in these two companies  
were bought. Surely the advisor should have vetted these companies?  
(a SIPP is a self invested personal pension)
background
Mr J approached Breath Easy Loans  to obtain a loan.  The loan company introduced  Mr J to 
the AR.  Following this introduction to the AR, Mr J switched  his personal pension  to a SIPP 
with SVS.   Once  the money had been switched to the SIPP, the unlisted  securities  were  
purchased.  The total value  invested in these shares was around  £16,000.   The loan 
company then loaned Mr J £4,000.  One  of the companies invested in has failed and the 
other two have significantly fallen in value.
Mr J complained to Tenet.  It said it had no knowledge of any advice given by its AR to Mr J. 
There is none of the paperwork normally associated with regulated financial advice and it 
received no commission.  It also pointed out that neither the SVS SIPP  nor the unlisted  
securities were Tenet approved products.  Its ARs are only authorised to give advice on 
approved products.  Because of this it didnt  think this was a complaint that we can look at.
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 25 March 2019.   In this I set out why I thought  
this was a complaint we could look at and why it should be upheld.
The provisional decision said the following:
jurisdiction
I have considered all of the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whether 
this is a complaint  that we can look at.
I will consider  our jurisdiction in three stages:
What is Mr Js complaint?
What are the regulated and any ancillary activities Mr J is complaining about?
Is Tenet  responsible for these actions  of its AR?
Mr Js description  isnt entirely clear about  what happened or the roles  of the various  parties 
involved.  However, when Mr J describes the SIPP as being mis sold to him I am satisfied  
that he considers  he was advised to make  the transfer from the personal  pension to the 
SIPP.  In my view advice  to switch to a SIPP would necessarily  involve  some  discussion of 
the merits of the SIPP  compared to the original personal pension.  Mr J is also clear  that the 
shares to be held within the SIPP  were  selected by the AR - and he considers these shares 
were not adequately vetted by the AR.
I am therefore satisfied  that Mr Js complaint  is that he was advised  to switch his personal 
pension to a SIPP and then to invest the funds in the SIPP in three unlisted shares.
Ref: DRN49859932The unlisted  shares, the SIPP and the original personal pension are designated investments.  
Therefore the advice  Mr J says he received  was regulated investment advice as per article 
53 of the Regulated Activities  Order.
was advice  given?
Not surprisingly, given  the nature of the transaction, the process is not well documented.  
However, there is evidence that suggests advice  was given.  This is:  
The loan agreement  with Breath Easy Loans lists the AR as the adviser.
The loan agreement  tells Mr J that a fee of around £1,000 will be paid to the adviser.
This amount was paid by the SIPP operator  to the AR. 
The SIPP application  lists the AR as adviser.
Given the nature of the scheme it was necessary for Mr J to invest in particular 
unquoted securities - which  means that Mr J must have  been  directed to purchase 
these particular shares.  It is highly improbable that an inexperienced investor such 
as Mr J would have  identified the shares  without advice.
The SIPP account opening documentation  recorded that the AR had been  appointed 
to: arrange my SVS SIPP  and to provide me with ongoing advice
The AR completed the SVS financial  adviser agreement form. 
Based on the above evidence my provisional conclusion is that the AR advised Mr J to 
switch his personal pension to a SIPP and to invest in the three  unquoted shares.
is Tenet responsible for these actions of its AR?
The guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says 
complaints about  acts or omissions include those in respect  of activities  for which 
the firmis responsible (including business  of any appointed representative  or agent 
for which the firmhas  accepted responsibility)". 
So a principal is answerable for complaints about the acts or omissions of its appointed 
representative in relation  to the business  it has accepted responsibility for.
Appointed representatives are not employees of the principal firm.  They  are independent  
and might not act only for the principal firm.  Sometimes those who operate  as appointed 
representatives operate other businesses also.   So sometimes it is clear that a person who 
happens to be an appointed representative does something on his own account (or in some  
other capacity) rather than as business  for the principal.
So in the case  of Emmanuel v DBS Management Plc [1999] Lloyds Re P.N 593 a principal 
(under the s.44 Financial  Services Act 1986) was held not to be liable for activities that were  
held to be outside the scope of the business the principal had accepted  responsibility for.  In 
that case the claimant had been advised to subscribe for shares  in and lend money  to the 
appointed representative itself. 
Another example  is in the case of Frederick  v Positive Solutions  [2018] EWCA Civ 431.  That  
case concerns agency rather  than s.39 appointed representative issues. Nevertheless  the 
case gives an example  of a person having  a connection with a regulated  business and doing  
something on their own account.  In  that case the person who was an agent for Positive 
Ref: DRN49859933Solutions (for some purposes) was held to be engaging in a recognisably  independent 
business of his own   a property investment scheme.    
what does accepted responsibility mean here?
It is important  to keep in mind here that I am talking about appointed representatives acting  
in their capacity as appointed representatives.  So I am discussing a creation of statute not 
common law agency.
I note the following comments made  by the courts:
Page v Champion  Financial Management Limited  [2014] EWHC 1778, Mr Simon  Picken QC 
sitting as a Deputy  Judge of the High Court said:
12at the hearing  before  me [counsel] confirmed that he was not seeking  to argue 
that Section  39(3) gives rise to vicarious liability in the strict (legal)  sense. This was a 
sensible concession since it is clear that Section 39(3)  does not entail the imposition 
of vicarious liability: see, by way of illustration, Jackson & Powell  on Professional 
Liability (7th Ed) at paragraph 14-017.
In Ovcharenko  v Investuk  Ltd [2017]  EWHC 2114,  HHJ Waksman QC said:
49  Section 39(3) renders an entirely separate statutory liability  and has nothing  to 
do, on the face of it, with the law of agency. It does not require  an agency to be 
proved before it can be activated
In that case the judge did also make clear that there might also be an agency relationship  
between the principal and the appointed  representative depending on the facts  of the case.   
However for present purposes it is important to concentrate on the precise terms and scope 
of the appointed representative status rather than common  law agency principles. 
As mentioned above, at the relevant time s.39 said:
 
"(1) If a person (other than an authorised person) 
(a) is a party  to a contract  with an authorised  person ("his principal")  which  
(i) permits or requires him to carry on business  of a prescribed description, and
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b) is someone for whose  activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business 
his principal has accepted responsibility  in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition  in relation  to any regulated activity 
comprised in the carrying on of that business  for which his principal has accepted 
responsibility
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as 
if he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which  he has accepted responsibility." (my emphasis)
So under s.39 the principal (Tenet) is required to accept responsibly for that business 
which is a reference  back to business of a prescribed description.
Ref: DRN49859934However the case Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 makes it clear  that the 
words part of in s.39 allow a principal firm to accept responsibility for only part of the 
generic business of a prescribed prescription.
I will first deal with the meaning prescribed  business before dealing with the part of point  
what does prescribed mean here?
The interpretation section,  s. 417 FSMA, says that where not otherwise defined,  prescribed 
means prescribed in regulations  made  by the Treasury.  Such regulations  have been  made   
the Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000 (Appointed Representatives)  Regulations 2001 
(as amended from time to time).  Regulation 2 covers descriptions of business  for which  
appointed representatives are exempt.  
what was prescribed  business at the relevant time?
The advice in this case was in June 2012.
At that time the Financial  Services and Markets Act 2000 (Appointed Representatives)  
Regulations 2001 said:
2. Descriptions of business  for which appointed representatives are exempt

(a)an activity of the kind specified by article 25 [of the RAO] (arranging deals in 
investments) where  the arrangements  are for or with a view to transactions 
relating to securities or relevant  investment.
(b)
(c)an activity of the kind specified by article 53 of that Order (advising on 
investments)
(d)an activity of the kind specified by article 64 of that Order (agreeing  to carry 
on activities),  so far as relevant to an activity falling within subsection(a)  [or] 
(c) 
is prescribed for the purposes of subsection (1)(a)(i) of section 39 of the Act 
(exemption of appointed  representatives).
So prescribed business is business which is defined at a high level.   It means business in 
the sense of certain regulated activities.  It does  not mean business in any greater level or 
particularity.  So it does  not mean  business in the sense of an individual transaction.
So in this case it means, say, advising on investments  (under article  53 RAO).  It does not 
mean advising Mr J on his particular  investments. 
what was the prescribed  business  Tenet  accepted responsibility for in this case?
The AR agreement  defines Business in the following  terms: 
The regulated activities set out in schedule 1 to this agreement for which the company is 
authorised by FSA and which constitutes the business to be carried  out by the Member in 
accordance with this agreement.
It also says:
Ref: DRN49859935The member shall perform the Regulated Activities so authorised  and as set out in Schedule 
1 of this Agreement exclusively for customers in the territories as advised by the Company 
and the company is entitled to exclude  the member  form dealing with specific  customers as 
decided and advised by the company.
Schedule 1 lists the following regulated activities: 
Advising on designated investments
Making arrangements with a view to transactions in designated investments
Advising on pension transfers and opt outs
Arranging (bringing  about) deals in designated  investments
Therefore the prescribed business that Tenet authorised its ARs to carry out means the four 
regulated activities  set out above.
Tenet attempts to restrict the activities that its ARs can carry out.  The restrictions relevant  
to this complaint  are:
The company shall at all times have the unfettered  right in its absolute discretion to restrict 
or impose  the following  restrictions in relation to Business undertaken by the Member:
The type and amount of Designated Investment, mortgage or non investment insurance to 
which any contract or loan may relate.
The institutions to whom  applications may be made
Under no circumstances during  the term of the contract shall the member procure or 
endeavour to procure  customers to enter  into contracts or loans with institutions,  including  
mortgage clubs and packagers with which the company has no established  agency  or 
arrangement but without  making the application  by or through the company.
So Tenet authorises its AR to carry out the four regulated activities  set out in schedule 1 of 
the agreement.  It also applies the following relevant  restrictions to this broad authority:
The type of designated investments to be purchased
The institutions to which  applications  can be made
The products  of non approved institutions  can be recommended  if approved by the 
principal
what do the courts say about these types of restrictions?
In Ovcharenko  v Investuk,  HHJ Waksman said the following  (where  D1 was the appointed 
representative and D2 was the principal).
First the court set out the purpose of the statutory provision it was interpreting.   The  judge 
said:
21 Section  39(3) then says: 
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as 
if he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which  he has accepted responsibility.
Ref: DRN49859936That, therefore, is a statutory attribution of liability against, here,  D2 for the activities  
of D1 in the way I have described.  
Then the judge  said:
33  the whole point of section 39(3) is to ensure a safeguard for clients who deal 
with authorised representatives but who would not otherwise be permitted to carry 
out regulated  activities, so that they have a long stop liability  target which  is the party 
which granted permission to the authorised representative in the first place. In my 
judgment, section  39(3) is a clear and separate statutory route to liability.  It does no 
more and no less than enable the claimant, without law, to render  the second 
defendant liable where there have been  defaults on the part of the authorised  
representative in the carrying out of the business  and which responsibility had been 
accepted
34 [counsel for D2]  has relied  upon certain  other provisions within the authorised 
representative agreement.  He relies  on paragraph 4.3 which is simply a promise 
by D1 to D2 that it will not do anything outside clause 3.
35 All that does is regulate the position  inter se between  D1 and D2. It says nothing 
about the scope of the liability of D2 to the claimants under section 39(3). The same 
point can be made in respect  of clause 4.7 which says,  "The representative will not 
carry out any activity in breach of section 19 of FSMA [sic  this should be s.39 as 
per the quote  from clause  4.7 in paragraph 9 of the judgement and the following 
description of the clause]  which limits the activities that can be undertaken or of any 
other applicable law or regulation". Again, that is a promise made inter se. 
36 The reason for those  promises  is obvious. D2 will be, as it were,  on the hook to 
the claimants as in respect of the defaults of D1 and if those defaults have arisen 
because D1 has exceeded what it was entitled to do or has broken the law in any 
way, then that gives a right of recourse which sounds in damages on the part of D2 
against D1. If [Counsel  for D2] was correct,  it would follow that any time there was 
any default on the part of an authorised representative, for example, by being  in 
breach of COBS,  that very default will automatically take the authorised 
representative not only outside  the scope of the authorised representative  agreement  
but will take D2 outside the scope of section 39(3) , in which  case  its purpose as a 
failsafe protection  for the client will be rendered nugatory; that is an impossible 
construction and I reject  it. 
The Judge  in TenetConnect v Financial Ombudsman Service  [2018] agreed with the above.   
In that case the network principal had argued that it was not responsible  for advice to invest  
in an investment in which it did not authorise  the appointed representative to deal.  The 
Judge said: 
the decisions in Martin  v Britannia  and in Ovcharenko are clearly against [Counsel  
for TenetConnect]. The fact that [the appointed representative] had no actual 
authority, express  or implied,  to act as he did on Tenet's  behalf,  nor was he held out 
by Tenet  as having  such authority, does  not answer  the s.39(3)  issue.
The above  is a reminder of the point I made above  that I am concerned with a particular 
statutory relationship, and not agency  generally.
Ref: DRN49859937So it is clear that the courts think that at least some conditions on the authority given to an 
appointed representative in a s.39 agreement only apply as between the parties,  that they:
regulate the position inter se
Does that mean all terms in the contract apply in that way?   The answer to that question is 
no because of the words  part of in s.39.
what about the part of point?
None of the cases I have referred to above  really considered this point.  But  it was dealt with 
in the most recent case on the subject Anderson v Sense Network [2018]  EWHC 2834.  In 
that case the Judge, Mr Justice  Jacobs, said:
133. There is no indication in the wording of section  39, or in the case-law,  that 
indicates that the business for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined  
not by reference to the contract, but by reference to the authorisations granted to the 
principal which are to be found in the Financial Services  register
136. I agree with the Claimants that liability under section 39 (and its predecessor) 
cannot simply be answered by asking  whether  a particular  transaction  was within the 
scope of the AR's actual  authority
137. In Ovcharenko, HHJ Waksman QC considered the scope of Clause 3.2 of the 
AR agreement in that case, and went on to hold that the relevant investment advice 
was "firmly encompassed by the permitted services in the authorised representative 
agreement": see paragraph [32]. He said that the "business  for which  responsibility  
had been accepted encompasses  the services set out in Clause 3 of the authorised 
representative agreement". Thus, section 39 was engaged notwithstanding other 
provisions of the AR agreement which imposed obligations or restrictions upon the 
AR; specifically, not to offer inducements,  and an obligation  not to do anything  
outside clause  3. The judge  considered that these restrictions were matters  which  
applied between the principal and the AR inter se, and did not affect liability under 
s.39.
138. Most  recently, in TenetConnect, Ouseley J applied the decisions in 
both Martin and Ovcharenko,  in circumstances where it was common ground  that 
liability under  s.39 "was not to be determined as a matter  of the contractual  law of 
agency": see paragraph [61]. The basis of the decision in TenetConnect was that the 
relevant advice on "unregulated" investments was sufficiently closely linked to the 
advice on regulated investments, which the AR was authorised to give.  The case  
therefore again supports the proposition that in ascertaining the scope of section 39, 
and the question of the business for which the principal has accepted responsibility, it 
is relevant to consider the terms of agreement between the principal and the AR. It is 
implicit in the decision  that if the advice on the unregulated investments had not been 
sufficiently closely linked  to advice which the AR was authorised to give,  then there  
would have been no liability under section 39.
139. I also agree with the Claimants  that the authorities indicate that it is appropriate 
to take a broad approach  when seeking  to identify the "business for which he has 
accepted responsibility".  The fact that there may not be actual  authority  for a 
particular transaction,  for example because of breach  of an obligation not to offer an 
Ref: DRN49859938inducement (Ovcharenko), or because there was no authority to advise on a related 
transaction (TenetConnect), or because certain  duties needed to be fulfilled before a 
product was offered, does not mean  that the transaction in question  falls outside the 
scope of the relevant "business" for which responsibility is taken. Equally, the 
approach must not be so broad that it becomes  divorced  from the terms of the very 
AR agreement relied upon in support of the case that the principal has accepted 
responsibility for the business in question.
140. In the present case, I agree with Sense  that the scheme,  and advice in 
connection with that scheme,  were well beyond the scope of the "business" for which 
Sense accepted responsibility pursuant to the AR agreement. It is beyond  serious  
argument that the activities  of MFSS and Mr. Greig in relation to the scheme, both in 
terms of operating it and advising upon it, were wholly unauthorised. It is no part of 
the ordinary business of a financial adviser  to operate  a scheme  for taking deposits  
from clients. As the Claimants' expert, Mr. Morrey, said:  "operating the scheme,  so 
having the monies under your control, clearly  is not the work of a financial adviser".  
Mr. Ingram's evidence was that he knew that a firm of financial advisers should not 
be involved  with the scheme, including because  the firm was not allowed to handle  
client money and that the scheme  was business of a kind that a properly regulated 
firm should not be involved with. Mr. Ingram was referring to the express prohibitions  
in clause 5.3.6  and 5.3.7 against MFSS accepting or holding or handling client 
money.
All this means a principal is responsible for the acts and omissions of an appointed 
representative acting  within  their actual authority.  It also means that sometimes  a principal 
is responsible when the appointed representative acts beyond their actual authority.  And 
sometimes a principal  is not responsible when the appointed representative acts beyond 
their actual authority?  And the test in the Anderson v Sense Network judgment  is that the 
principal is responsible when the act or omission  is sufficiently closely connected to the 
activities for which the actual authority was given.   
In this case neither  the SVS SIPP nor the unlisted  securities were  products that Tenet 
authorised its AR to advise on.  The AR did not ask Tenet for permission to give advice on 
these non approved products.  Therefore in giving advice on these products the AR was 
acting outside  the actual  authority granted to it by the principal.
Whilst the AR was not authorised to give advice on either the SIPP or the shares, the 
contract contains no restriction on giving advice on the original  personal  pension.  The 
restrictions set out above  apply only to new contracts and do not restrict the advice that can 
be given in respect of surrendering existing products.   
So the advice  given to Mr J to surrender his existing personal pension policy is advice that 
falls within  the actual authority of the AR.
A similar situation was considered by the courts in the case of TenetConnect v Financial 
Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin).  In this case the judge said:
That language does not permit a bright  line to be drawn between advice on selling the 
regulated investment and buying the unregulated investment, where  the purpose of the sale 
is to enable a purchase.  The advice on such a sale is inextricably linked to the advice on the 
purchase.
Ref: DRN49859939In the above case the judge concluded  that as a piece of regulated advice and a piece of 
unregulated advice were  inextricably linked they constituted  a single piece of regulated 
advice.  The regulated advice was something  that Tenet accepted responsibility for but not 
the unregulated  advice.   However, because part of the advice  was the responsibility of Tenet 
then because of the linkage of the two pieces of advice then the whole of the advice was the 
responsibility of Tenet.  He said: 
The issue  for me, on the Ombudsman's jurisdiction, which again is how the issue arises, is 
whether the Ombudsman was right to appraise  or characterise the advice  in relation to those 
"unregulated" investments as "co-extensive  with"  or "intrinsically  linked to" or "very closely 
connected to", the advice  to sell, such that they were done "in carrying  on the business" for 
which Tenet had accepted responsibility, even though not of itself, advice on the 
administration of investments dealt in by Tenet.
 
As I said earlier Mr J was advised to switch  his personal pension to a SIPP and to then 
invest in unquoted shares.   The  whole  purpose  of the advice  was to enable  Mr J to purchase 
the shares.  Without  the purchase of the shares the loan that Mr J was looking to obtain 
would not have been forthcoming.  I therefore  consider  that the various elements of this 
advice are inextricably linked  without the pension switch there  would have been  no share 
purchase.  I  therefore  consider that, in effect,  Mr J received a single piece  of advice, albeit 
made up of a number  of different elements.  
On the same  reasoning as in the above case,  as one element of the advice is the 
responsibility of Tenet then it is also responsible  for the whole of the advice.  The advice to 
surrender the original  personal pension is advice  that Tenet is responsible  for.  The SIPP 
advice and share advice is sufficiently close to the activity for which actual authority was 
given to mean that all of the advice is the responsibility of Tenet.     
For the reasons  set out above my provisional conclusion  is that this is a complaint that we 
can look at.  Mr J was advised to switch his personal pension to a SIPP for the purpose of 
investing in unlisted securities.   Tenet  is responsible for the suitability of all this advice.
the merits of the complaint
I have considered all of the available evidence and arguments in order to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.   Having done  so, my provisional 
conclusion is that the complaint should  be upheld.
I am satisfied that it is more likely  than not that the arrangement Mr J was advised to enter  
into was designed  to enable him to access money in his pension fund  a pension liberation  
scheme.  Such schemes  are illegal.   It is without  doubt that advice to enter into such a 
scheme is unsuitable.
how should  Tenet  compensate Mr J for the unsuitable advice he was given? 
I am not persuaded that a SIPP was a suitable  investment for Mr J.  He  had very limited 
investment experience and the funds  in his personal pension  were relatively modest.   He 
was not an investor  who was in a position to take advantage  of the greater  flexibility of the 
SIPP.  As a result the higher  charges  associated  with a SIPP were not justified.  I consider 
that suitable advice would  have  been to retain his existing personal  pension.
Ref: DRN498599310The amount  that was transferred into the SIPP was £20,321.  Of this sum £4,000 was, 
indirectly, paid back  to Mr J.  Therefore for the purposes of this calculation the sum deemed  
to have remained in the personal  pension should  be £16,321 (£20,321  less £4,000).   
Tenet should therefore calculate what the present  value of Mr Js original personal pension 
would be if it had not been  transferred (based on an initial value of £16,321).
Tenet should pay into Mr J's SIPP to increase  its value to the amount calculated above.   The  
amount paid should allow for the effect  of charges and any available  tax relief. 
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the existing  investments as they are unlisted.  
So, their actual value  should be assumed to be nil.  Tenet  should  take ownership  of the 
illiquid investments  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the balance paid above.
If Tenet is unable to purchase  the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. Tenet may require  that Mr J provides an undertaking to pay 
Tenet any amount  he may receive  from the investment  in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension  
plan. Tenet  will need  to meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
If Tenet is unable to pay the compensation into Mr J's SIPP, it should pay that amount direct 
to him. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore  the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income  
tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr J's expected marginal rate of tax at 
his selected retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr J is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr J would have been able to 
take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction  should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Based on the terms of the loan agreement, which wrote of the loan if the performance of the 
shares was below a certain level (a loss of more than 50%),  I assume that Mr J has not had 
to pay back the £4,000.   I therefore need to make no further adjustment for this money.  If 
this is not correct Mr J should  tell me. 
It is possible that HMRC may require  Mr J to pay tax on this £4,000.  Tenet should therefore 
agree to pay any tax bill that Mr J may incur in relation to the payment to him of the £4,000.
The loss of the majority  of his pension provision  will have been upsetting for Mr J.  I propose 
to award him the sum of £250 to compensate  him for this.
Mr J accepted my provisional  decision and had nothing  further  to add.
Tenet did not agree and made the following points:
Ref: DRN498599311There is no evidence that advice was given by the AR.  If this was an execution only 
transaction then it was the responsibility  of the SIPP  operator  to carry out due 
diligence on the shares.
The most likely version  of events is that Mr J approached the AR merely to arrange 
the SIPP on an execution  only basis. 
Whilst the SIPP application form indicates  ongoing advice the fact that no fee 
arrangement was put in place suggests ongoing advice wasnt  given.
There is no evidence to link the AR to the BreatheEasy loan.
There is also no evidence that the AR was giving ongoing advice.
It doesnt think suitability is relevant as the complaint is in its view not one that we 
can look at.  However,  Mr J was quite close to retirement and had little option other 
than to take an increased level of risk to potentially boost his pension.   
It also said there was no evidence to enable a conclusion  to be reached  about 
suitability.   
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I have not been 
persuaded to change  my mind.
I do not accept the firms argument about a lack of evidence  linking  the AR to the 
transaction.  As I said in my provisional  decision there is the following evidence  linking the 
AR to the transaction:
The loan agreement  with Breath Easy Loans lists the AR as the adviser.
The loan agreement  tells Mr J that a fee of around £1,000 will be paid to the adviser.
This amount was paid by the SIPP operator  to the AR. 
The SIPP application  lists the AR as adviser.
The SIPP account opening documentation  recorded that the AR had been  appointed 
to: arrange my SVS SIPP and to provide me with ongoing advice
The AR completed the SVS financial  adviser agreement form. 
Based on this documentary evidence I am satisfied that the AR had an arrangement  with 
BreatheEasy loans  and was aware that the purpose of the transaction was to liberate 
funds from Mr Js pension fund.  The SIPP documentation clearly  records that the AR had 
been appointed as Mr Js adviser and was paid £1,000 for his part in Mr J taking out the 
SIPP.  I dont consider whether ongoing  advice was actually  provided or not to be relevant. 
I accept that this is not entirely clear what  happened  and there is none of the paperwork that 
would usually be generated  by regulated  financial advice.  However, the evidence set out 
above persuades  me that it is more  likely  than not that the AR advised Mr J to carry out the 
transaction. 
Ref: DRN498599312The firm has suggested that Mr J had no other  option than to take a high level of risk with his 
pension.  He was quite close to retirement  and had limited prospects of generating a 
reasonable pension.  However, this argument  ignores my conclusion that this was a pension 
liberation scheme  which is illegal.  I dont think that the particular circumstances of Mr J 
can mean that advice  to carry out an illegal activity is suitable.
It therefore remains my conclusion that the advice given to Mr J was unsuitable.   Because  
part of the advice given was the responsibility of Tenet (the surrender advice) it is 
responsible for the whole of the advice.  
No further comments  have been made about  my proposed redress.  I therefore confirm that 
this is how Mr J should be compensated.
my final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. I order  TenetConnect Services 
Limited to pay Mr J the compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4985993