K821x#15complaint
Ms B complains  about the fees and charges Paratus AMC Limited have applied to her 
mortgage account. Specifically, shes unhappy that they paid ground rent charges on her 
behalf, as well as charged her for LPA Receiver  costs, and arrears fees.
background
Ms B had an interest  only residential mortgage with Paratus, which was redeemed  in March 
2018. After redeeming the mortgage, Ms B complained to Paratus about some of the 
charges theyd applied to her mortgage  account.
Following requests from solicitors, Paratus  had paid ground rent charges on behalf  of Ms B 
and added these,  as well as administration fees, onto her mortgage  account. Paratus made 
the most  recent payment  in 2018.  In January  2018, Ms B had spoken to Paratus  and asked 
them not to pay the ground rent charges  as she was disputing them. Paratus paid the 
charges in February 2018 and added  them  to the mortgage account. Ms B is unhappy that 
Paratus paid these  as they were  aware of the dispute, and knew  that she was selling the 
house.
Paratus also charged Ms B for the costs incurred from instructing an LPA Receiver. Ms Bs 
not happy about this as she was living in the property and had provided proof of that to 
Paratus. Ms B also complained about  arrears fees that had been added  to her account  as 
she felt shed been overcharged.
Paratus didnt uphold  the complaint. They said that the property,  and so their security, was at 
risk if the ground rent went unpaid,  which  is why they paid the ground rent charges. They 
said they were entitled to do this under the terms of the mortgage. They instructed an LPA 
Receiver after a field agent reported  that there were tenants living  in the property. Once 
Ms B provided proof of residency, they de-instructed the LPA Receiver. They  said theyd 
charged the arrears  fees correctly in line with the terms  of the mortgage account.
Ms B brought her complaint to our service and our investigator looked  into things. She 
explained that, in her view, Paratus had acted fairly  when applying  charges for the arrears, 
and LPA Receiver  costs  to the mortgage account.  However, she found that Paratus  
shouldnt have paid the last ground  rent payment, as they were  aware  of the dispute  and the 
house had been sold. She asked Paratus to refund the £100 administration fee charged,  
along with 8% simple  interest from the date paid until the date of settlement. She also asked 
Paratus to pay Ms B £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ms B agreed with the investigators opinion but Paratus  didnt.  So the complaints been 
passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ground rent payments
Ms B is unhappy that Paratus made the payment for ground rent on her behalf in 2018,  as 
they were aware  she was disputing the payment, and they knew  she was selling the house. 
Both parties  agree here that Paratus were  aware of the dispute between  Ms B and the 
Ref: DRN48992172solicitors. Its clear  from the internal contact notes  that Ms B had a conversation with Paratus 
about this dispute in January 2018.  I can also see that a conveyancing solicitor  had 
requested a redemption statement for the mortgage  in January 2018.
Paratus have said they paid the ground rent after receiving a section 121 notice from the 
solicitors. As a result, they felt the property  was at risk because this notice explained court 
action would be taken  if the payments werent  made. I appreciate why Paratus may have 
been concerned  after receiving this notice, as it was clear from their conversations with Ms B 
that she wasnt going to make  the payments herself. And if the payments continued to go 
unpaid, the management company could potentially have been granted  access  to the 
property following the matter being  decided  in court.
However, whilst  I understand why they were concerned, Im not satisfied it was fair for 
Paratus to pay the ground rent on this particular occasion. Whilst there was a threat  of legal 
action, the matter hadnt actually been  to court. Ms B had told Paratus she didnt want them 
to pay, as she was disputing  the amount. By making  the payment, Paratus took the 
opportunity away from Ms B to continue the dispute, and I consider that was unfair. Whilst 
there are circumstances when I would  consider  it fair for the lender to step in and make  the 
payment, this is not one of them, and Im persuaded that in Ms Bs case,  Paratus should  not 
have made  the payment.
As a result, Paratus should  refund  Ms B the administration  fee they charged her for making  
the payment.  They should  also pay Ms B £200 for the trouble and upset caused as Ms B 
was no longer able to dispute the payment  amount with the solicitors,  and she had 
specifically asked Paratus  not to pay. Im satisfied  that discovering the payments had been 
made without her consent would have been distressing, and Im satisfied that £200 is an 
appropriate award to compensate for this. Im not instructing Paratus to refund the ground 
rent payment made because if they hadnt  paid it, its likely the matter would have gone to 
court, and Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that Ms Bs dispute with the management 
company would have been successful.
LPA Receiver costs
LPA Receivers are usually instructed  by lenders to act on behalf  of consumers if there are 
arrears building  up on a mortgage for a buy-to-let property. Ms Bs mortgage was in arrears, 
but it was a residential mortgage. So Ms B doesnt think it was fair for Paratus to instruct an 
LPA Receiver and then charge her for it.
I understand Ms Bs frustration. But Im not satisfied that Paratus  instructed the LPA 
Receiver unfairly. Ms Bs mortgage  account was in arrears, and Paratus had tried to engage 
with Ms B to agree an arrangement or plan to help get the mortgage back on track. As 
Paratus were unsuccessful in their attempts  at contact, in August 2017 they sent a field 
agent to the property. Ive seen a copy of the field agent report, and this says that there was 
a family  living in the property who confirmed they were  paying rent to Ms B to live there, via 
a letting agent. They confirmed theyd been renting the property since September  2016. As a 
result, Im persuaded  it was fair for Paratus to appoint an LPA Receiver, as it was apparent 
that Ms B was not living in the property herself, but in fact renting it out.
When Ms B disputed this and provided  evidence that she was living at the property, Paratus 
de-instructed the Receiver. However,  as Im still satisfied that Paratus were  fair to instruct  
them in the first place,  I consider it fair for them to charge Ms B for the costs they incurred as 
Ref: DRN48992173a result.  If Ms B had engaged with Paratus  and responded to their attempted contact, there 
may not have been a need  for the Receivers,  but I cant hold Paratus responsible for this.
arrears fees
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Ms Bs mortgage account, and the tariff of fees 
and charges. Looking at the statements, its clear Ms B was in arrears on her mortgage, as 
she wasnt making consistent payments to the account. As a result, Paratus  have added  
arrears fees to her mortgage balance. Looking at the tariff of fees and charges, Im satisfied 
that Paratus have applied these fees in line with the terms of the account. Ive also 
considered the contact  notes and can see that Ms B was not pro-actively engaging with 
Paratus to arrange for these arrears to be cleared, nor was she responding to Paratus 
attempted contact for the majority of the time. As a result, Im satisfied  Paratus have applied  
these fees fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part and instruct  Paratus AMC 
Limited to do the following:
refund  the £100 administration fee charged  to Ms B for making the ground  rent 
payment
pay 8% simple interest* to Ms B for the time shes been without this fee. This should  
be calculated from the date Ms B paid this, to the date of settlement.
pay Ms B £200 for the distress and inconvenience this has caused.
*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If Paratus AMC Limited considers that its 
required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell 
Ms B how much its taken  off. It should also give Ms B a certificate  showing this if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4899217