K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complaint that Fairmead  Insurance Limited (Fairmead) unfairly voided their 
home insurance policy after they made  a claim for subsidence.
background
Mr and Mrs M insured their home with Fairmead. They took the policy out in 2016 and 
renewed it in 2017. After  the renewal, Mr and Mrs M made a claim because there was 
damage caused by cracks to their property.
After carrying out enquiries, Fairmead  declined cover for the claim and voided the policies. It 
said that when  theyd taken out the policy, and renewed it, Mr and Mrs M had been asked 
whether there had been any structural damage in the last 15 years. Mr and Mrs M answered 
no to this. Theyd also been  asked  whether  the property was in a sound state of repair.  
Mr and Mrs M answered yes.  
Fairmead said these answers were  inaccurate. It said a mortgage  valuation report  prepared 
in 2015 showed that the property had long standing cracks caused by movement, and that 
work was required to improve the condition of the property. It said that if it had been made 
aware of this information, it wouldnt  have sold the policies. It voided both their policies and 
refunded the premiums  paid.
Mr and Mrs M were  unhappy with this and complained to Fairmead.  They argued that the 
previous damage  had occurred a long time before and so had assumed it was more  than 15 
years before they took out the policy, so hadnt  disclosed it. They  also said that the condition 
of the property was because  it hadnt been  updated or decorated since it had been  built 
more than 30 years previously, rather than any structural  or significant issues.
Fairmead rejected  their complaint, so Mr and Mrs M brought it to our service. Our 
investigator thought  Fairmead hadnt acted  fairly.  He thought there wasnt enough evidence 
to show that Mr and Mrs M knew about  the previous damage as the valuation  report relied 
on by Fairmead was prepared for the mortgage  lender, not Mr and Mrs M.
Fairmead didnt accept this, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said that the 
valuation report should have been  shared with Mr and Mrs M during the course  of them  
purchasing the property.  It said it would reconsider its position if evidence could be provided 
to show that the solicitors  whod acted for Mr and Mrs M when  they purchased the property  
hadnt provided them with the valuation report or made them aware  of the cracks.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
While it hasnt made reference to the legislation, its apparent that Fairmead has relied on 
the Consumer  Insurance  (Disclosure and Representation) Act 2012 (CIDRA) when it 
declined Mr and Mrs Ms claim and voided  their policies. This puts an obligation on 
consumers to take reasonable care not to misrepresent  when they enter into a consumer 
insurance contract.  This is defined  as a contract mainly  for purposes unrelated to their 
business.  The act also says if the consumer  fails to meet this obligation the insurer  has a 
Ref: DRN48576632remedy against the consumer if it can show that without the misrepresentation it would not 
have entered  into the contract  at all, or would have done so only on different terms. This is 
what the Act describes as a Qualifying  Misrepresentation.
Mr and Mrs M entered into two consumer  insurance  contracts with Fairmead: the original 
policy in 2016  and then another one when  they renewed it in 2017. The claim was submitted 
on the 2017 policy. To void both policies, Fairmead needs to show  Mr and Mrs M made 
qualifying misrepresentations on both policies,  ie when they took out the policy  originally and 
at renewal.
Mr and Mrs M took out the first policy in 2016 via a price comparison website, and having 
chosen the policy were  sent documents by Fairmead including a statement of fact. This says 
it contains the information you provided to us which we use to determine  whether to offer 
you a policy  and your premium. It then asks the policyholder to check  this information  
carefully and to contact  Fairmead if anything is incorrect.  A similar statement of fact was 
sent in 2017 when the policy was due for renewal. Im satisfied that its fair for Fairmead to 
rely on the contents of the statement of fact as being Mr and Mrs Ms answers, even if the 
answers werent given  directly to Fairmead.  Mr and Mrs M havent suggested that the 
information on the statements of fact dont  reflect the information  they provided  to the price 
comparison website, which generated the quote  from Fairmead.The  disclaimers  in the 
documents were  clear  in highlighting the importance  of checking the contents and correcting 
any errors.
Fairmead argues  that the answers to two questions on these statements  of fact were  
inaccurate. The first was the question Is the property insured in a sound state of repair? 
Both statements of fact gave the answer Yes. The second question contested by Fairmead 
was In the last 15 years has the property insured (including its outbuildings) been affected 
by subsidence,  heave, landslip or structural movement? This was answered No on both 
statements of fact. CIDRA says that if an insurer argues that information has been 
misrepresented, it needs to ask a clear question. I dont think  theres any suggestion  that the 
questions referred to above  werent  clear. Ill consider both of these questions, and whether I 
think Mr and Mrs M misrepresented their answers, separately.
The sound  state  of repair question
Fairmead relies on a mortgage valuation report prepared  in 2015 when it argues that the 
property was not in a sound state  of repair when Mr and Mrs M took out the policy  or when it 
was renewed. This says that Elements  of the property  appear to be in poor condition having 
regard to its age and type of construction. Works of repair, maintenance and renewal are 
required. The report also notes that Dampness was noted to walls and recommended  that 
a specialist contractor  should inspect the property, and all necessary works should  be 
carried out. The report also references the garage, saying its cost was excluded from the 
rebuild costs due to signs of significant  structural movement, repair  and rebuild.
Mr and Mrs M argue that the issues identified in the valuation report  can be attributed to the 
age of the property.  They  say that previous owners  had not carried  out any renovations  or 
redecoration to the property since it was built, and that the works identified as being needed 
can be fairly categorised  as being  of that nature. 
They also argue that the dampness which has been mentioned was caused by a poorly 
vented clothes  dryer and that works  to resolve  this had been carried  out. And they say that 
the garage had been damaged by a vehicle reversing into it prior to their purchase of the 
property.
Ref: DRN48576633When it was assessing  cover for the claim, Fairmead appointed an agent to make enquiries. 
Ive looked at the reports which the agent provided Fairmead before the decision was taken 
to decline the claim  and void the policies.  I cant see anything  in these reports which covers 
the apparent poor condition of the property which Fairmead now relies  on. It covers  the 
evidence of structural movement and the long standing nature of this, which  Ill be looking at 
separately. Theres no mention of other repair or maintenance  being  required. Similarly, the 
condition of the garage isnt mentioned in these reports. Fairmead  hasnt pointed  to any 
photographs of the property to show why it says the property  was in a poor state of repair,  or 
detailed description  of the areas  of poor repair, beyond the general description  contained  
within the valuation  report.
I dont think that theres enough evidence to suggest  that the property was in a poor 
condition when the policy was taken out and renewed. If issues  requiring repairs  unrelated  to 
the subsidence had been noted, Id have  expected  the agent to identify this when they 
carried out their enquiries, and for Fairmead  to have been informed of this. I dont think  
Fairmead have shown its more likely than not that the property was not in a sound state of 
repair.
On this basis, I dont think  there  was a misrepresentation in relation  to this question. 
The subsidence and structural movement question
Fairmead again relies  on the mortgage valuation report when it says Mr and Mrs M didnt 
disclose previous movement of the property. I can see that this says that Evidence of 
movement was observed in the form of cracking  to external and internal walls, undulation to 
floors, settlement of the side extension and distortion to openings. This appears to be long 
standing and non progressive and the likelihood of further significant  movement seems 
remote. No structural  works  are considered  necessary.
Mr and Mrs M argue that the description  of the structural movement as long standing  
meant that they assumed  it had happened  more than 15 years  before, and so they werent  
obliged to disclose  it when Fairmead  asked  about  previous subsidence  or structural 
movement within the last 15 years. 
The report  also mentions  that the there  was evidence  of significant structural movement  to 
the garage. Mr and Mrs M say that damage  had been caused by a vehicle hitting  the garage. 
But its not clear if they also understand that this occurred more than 15 years before they 
took out the policy. The report specifically  refers to structural  movement  and so, regardless 
of how it occurred, Mr and Mrs M should have disclosed this if it occurred within 15 years  of 
taking out the policy.
Mr and Mrs M say they dont know exactly when the previous damage occurred, but have  
made an assumption that it occurred more than 15 years before they took out the policy. 
They dont appear to be suggesting  they were unaware of it. Id suggest  that for them to say 
they assumed  the movement had occurred  more than 15 years before, they must have been 
aware of it. Ive not seen any evidence to support their assumption about when the 
movement occurred. Im not satisfied  that it was reasonable  for them to assume this and so 
justify them  not disclosing  the previous movement to Fairmead.  
I think Mr and Mrs M had two options. The first was to tell Fairmead about the previous 
structural movement which had caused cracking and damage to the garage,  regardless  of 
Ref: DRN48576634how it occurred, and say they didnt know when  it had occurred.  The other option would have 
been to seek confirmation of when  the damage  occurred,  and if it was within  15 years to 
then disclose this to Fairmead. If it was more than 15 years  before, it wouldnt need to be 
disclosed. Id expect that information to have been obtained as part of the conveyancing 
when they purchased the property.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M didnt act reasonably when they didnt disclose the 
movement to Fairmead, or at least find out when  it had occurred. They  also didnt disclose 
this information  when they renewed  the policy.  They had a duty to take reasonable care 
when answering  this question. If they were  unsure  of the answer to a question,  it's 
reasonable to expect  them to find out the answer  simply making an assumption  or giving 
their 'best guess'  isnt enough to show they did take reasonable  care.
Fairmeads provided evidence to show  that if previous structural  movement  occurring within 
15 years  had been disclosed,  it wouldnt have  sold the policy.  
Mr and Mrs M did make Fairmead aware of cracks  having appeared when they renewed the 
policy. But its apparent  that Fairmead allowed the renewal of the policy  as the evidence  
available to it was that this was a whole new issue. It was under the impression that all 
structural movement had occurred within the first year of the policy,  and so it would be liable 
for a claim under the original policy. If it had been aware of previous cracks, it wouldnt have 
offered renewal.
So Im satisfied that Fairmead  has shown that Mr and Mrs M made  a qualifying 
misrepresentation when they took out the policy and when it was renewed. And its shown it 
wouldnt have offered a policy if it had known  about the information which  wasnt disclosed. 
CIDRA says that in those circumstances, its entitled  to void the policies, and act as if the 
policies never existed. This means  that any claim on the policies isnt covered. As Fairmead 
considers that the misrepresentation was made carelessly, its refunded Mr and Mrs Ms 
premiums.
So I dont  think that Fairmead has done anything wrong here. But I would place a caveat on 
this, which  is similar to what Fairmead  have  said previously. Mr and Mrs M should be given 
the opportunity  to provide  evidence that all of the structural  movement referred  to in the 
mortgage valuation  report occurred more than 15 years before they took out the first policy.  
If that can be provided, Id expect  Fairmead to reinstate  the policies and consider the claim 
in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions. This is because,  if all the damage 
occurred more than 15 years before the first policy was taken  out, there was no obligation on 
Mr and Mrs M to disclose  it as it occurred outside  of the timeframe Fairmead had asked 
about.
the response to my provisional  decision
 Fairmead didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs M said they were going to try to obtain  evidence that all the structural damage to 
the property had occurred more than 15 years before they took out the policy  in 2016.  Other  
than that, they made no other  comments  on the provisional decision.
 
Ref: DRN48576635my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in the provisional decision,  if Mr and Mrs M can provide evidence to Fairmead  that 
all the structural damage to the property occurred more than 15 years  before the first policy 
was taken out, then Id expect Fairmead to reinstate  the policies and reconsider the claim in 
accordance with the remaining policy terms and conditions.  In the first instance,  this would 
need to be sent to Fairmead for it to consider. Mr and Mrs Ms ability  to provide this doesnt 
change the findings Ive made.
Ive looked again at the evidence and my provisional  decision.  In the absence of anything to 
refute what Ive said or that changes my thinking,  Im satisfied that it remains a fair and 
reasonable outcome in the circumstances.
my final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 October  2020.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4857663