K820x#14Complaint
Mrs P says Nationwide Building Society  didnt do enough to help when she fell victim to a 
banking payment scam. She says Nationwide should have done  more to prevent the 
payment going  through and to recover the money from the scammer.
Background
On 3 August  2017, Mrs P made an online payment of £2,500  from her Nationwide current 
account on the instruction of, who she believed, was her builder. 
Mrs P subsequently discovered shed made  the payment to a scammer  who had 
impersonated Mrs Ps builder and sent an email containing the scammers own account 
details. Mrs P contacted  Nationwide on 24 August 2017 to tell it what  had happened, and to 
see if there was anything it could do to help. Nationwide contacted the scammers bank that 
same day to see if any of Mrs Ps money could be recovered.
Mrs P didnt hear back from Nationwide, so she called back on 30 August 2017 for an 
update. Nationwide eventually confirmed that the scammers bank said no money  remained 
from Mrs Ps transaction. Mrs P was unhappy with how Nationwide handled  things, so she 
complained. Nationwide accepted it could have dealt with her complaint better and it paid 
her £100  as compensation. 
Still unhappy with Nationwides response,  Mrs P complained to us. Our adjudicators  looked 
at what had happened and recommended the complaint  not be upheld. They felt Nationwide  
hadnt acted unfairly  by allowing the payment to be made and didnt  think  it should have 
done more to help her recover her money. The adjudicators believed Nationwides  
compensation payment was fair.
Mrs P disagreed, saying  the payees  name she gave at the time of making the payment  was 
different to the actual name  of the account holder. She said Nationwide asked for those 
details (as well as for the account number  and sort code) but didnt check  them.  Mrs P 
believed this caused her to lose out. The complaint was passed to me to review  afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks  expected  to process  payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises  it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services  
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And Ive taken that into 
account when  deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
Ref: DRN42150702The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Nationwide are also required to conduct  their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  
taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings 
with Mrs P when it made a payment of £2,500 to a new payee  in August 2017, or whether it 
should have done more  than it did.
I dont think the payment  was particularly suspicious or unusual enough to say Nationwide 
ought to have had concerns that Mrs P was being  scammed. The amount of the payment 
that Mrs P made wasnt particularly unusual for her  Mrs P had made  payments for similar  
or higher amounts  just prior to the relevant payment. 
Although Mrs P says shed never  transferred money to the beneficiary bank before, I dont 
believe that in itself was enough  to conclude that the payment was suspicious.  Having 
reviewed Mrs Ps account activity in the period leading up to the transaction,  I dont think  it 
was sufficiently suspicious  for me to conclude Nationwide ought to have identified  that it may 
be potentially fraudulent.
Mrs Ps noted that Nationwide asked her for the payees name,  account  number  and sort 
code when she made the payment. Its been confirmed that the account  the money was paid 
to wasnt in her builders name. She says if Nationwide and checked that and queried  it with 
Ref: DRN42150703her, the payment  might  never have been  made. That may be the case  but, as Nationwides 
confirmed, it didnt know who the scammers account belonged to and wasnt  required to 
check this at the time. It was good practice  to use the sort code and account number to 
ensure payments reached the intended account and the account terms and conditions 
explained that this was the information  required for it to process automated  payments. As I 
understand it, Nationwide asked for the payees  name for other reasons, such  as so the 
payment would be identifiable  to Mrs P in among the other  transactions on her account. 
Mrs Ps also said if shed  known Nationwide wouldnt be checking the name  of the account  
holder against  the payee name shed given shed have  checked the details with her builder. 
While I appreciate thats what she said shed have done, Ive not seen anything to suggest 
thats what shed  have done  at the time. 
The Confirmation of Payee (CoP) scheme Mrs Ps referred to was originally announced in 
October 2018 but wasnt due to come into force for the UKs largest banking groups 
(including Nationwide) until July 2019.  The deadline for implementing the scheme was then 
delayed until March  and, finally,  June 2020. Given that the deadline for joining wasnt  until 
almost three years after Mrs P made  her payment,  and that the scheme doesnt apply 
retrospectively, I dont  believe it would be fair for me to find that Nationwide should have 
done more in this regard.
So, in the circumstances, I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong by following the 
instructions Mrs P gave  and sending the money.
When Mrs P told Nationwide  shed  been  scammed, Nationwide acted quickly enough by 
contacting the scammers bank within  the hour to see if any of Mrs Ps money  was still in the 
receiving account  and could be retrieved. Unfortunately, by that time  which, unfortunately, 
was 21 days after the transfer was made  Mrs Ps money had gone.  Its not unusual  in 
scams like this for the scammers to withdraw funds quickly.  
Any further investigations into what happened  to the money  after it left the scammers 
account werent the responsibility of Nationwide,  and it wouldnt have unrestricted access to 
that information. So, contacting the scammers bank to try and retrieve the money was all 
Nationwide could do to help Mrs P at that stage. 
Its unfortunate that Mrs Ps lost out, and I understand that this whole  experience will have 
been very upsetting for her. But, in the circumstances, I dont think  I can fairly say that 
Nationwide should  have done more  to prevent Mrs P losing her money.  I cant  hold 
Nationwide responsible for Mrs P having  fallen  victim to a scam, and I think it did what  it 
could to help once it knew what had happened. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Nationwide to compensate Mrs P for her financial loss. 
That said,  I recognise that Nationwide could have  done more  to keep Mrs P better informed  
regarding the attempted  recovery of her money.  But I cant  see that Nationwides actions led 
to any financial loss. Taking this all into account,  I think the £100 Nationwides  already paid 
to Mrs P for thats appropriate in the circumstances. I dont think Nationwide  needs to pay 
her any more.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN42150704Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2020  .
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4215070