K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that in 2006 Society  of Lloyds mis-sold him buildings  insurance for his home 
in Spain.
background
In 2006 Mr H took out buildings and contents  insurance with Lloyds for his home in Spain.  
When he was first arranging the policy Mr H says he asked Lloyds whether he needed 
buildings cover. Thats because his home in Spain is a community  home which, under 
Spanish law, must have  compulsory community buildings  insurance. Mr H says Lloyds told 
him when  he first arranged the policy that he would  need buildings  cover because  his 
property was a townhouse so wasnt part of the community scheme in the same  way 
apartments on the development were.  
The policy (covering buildings and contents) renewed annually until 2018 when Mr H 
received his renewal  documents advising him that he should  shop  around  for his cover  
(having had his policy  for 12 years). On approaching an alternative insurer to obtain a quote, 
Mr H was advised that he may have buildings cover already  through his community. When 
he was sent some documents by the community they showed his home was included  within  
€10million of community-wide buildings cover. 
Mr H thought hed been misled by Lloyds in 2006.  He thought it shouldve been aware such 
cover was mandatory in Spain and advised  him accordingly. He estimated that hed paid 
£5,000 in un-necessary premiums so he complained  to Lloyds. He said he hadnt noticed 
that he was covered by the community policy before because he pays  a quarterly service 
charge/management fee which didnt include a breakdown of what  the fee was for. He said 
hed only just found out that a proportion of that fee went towards  the buildings cover. 
Lloyds looked  into Mr Hs complaint but didnt think itd done anything  wrong.  It said the 
policy had been  sold on a non-advisory basis so the responsibility for making  sure he had 
cover that met his requirements rested with Mr H. It said that if hed needed  to make a claim,  
as hed been unaware that he had community cover, then it would have settled it in line with 
the policy terms and conditions irrespective of the existence of any other  policy. Because 
hed been a long standing  customer it offered to reduce his renewal premium by £100 as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Lloyds investigation,  Mr H complained to this service. Our 
investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint but didnt recommend  that it was upheld. 
The complaint was referred  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due to the passage of time, a copy recording of the sales call is unavailable. So Im unable 
to make a finding on what may or may not have been said during it. Insurers are only obliged 
to keep such recordings for six years so I cant say that its unfair that Lloyds no longer has 
a copy. 
Ref: DRN48922282I can see that the sale was what is known as a non-advised sale.  That means no advice  or 
recommendations wouldve been  given  by Lloyds as to the suitability of the policy  for Mr Hs 
needs. When a sale is non-advised,  it is the policyholders responsibility to ensure it meets  
their needs.   
I think that if Mr H was unsure whether his community  provided  cover it was his responsibility 
to make enquiries. I can see that he paid a quarterly fee but that there  was no breakdown for 
what was included within the community fees element of that charge. It was only in 2018 
that Mr H discovered that part of the community fee went  towards  paying  for the community 
buildings cover that is mandatory in Spain. But I cant say that Lloyds should  be responsible, 
in these circumstances, for undertaking investigations to work  out what  Mr Hs community 
contract provided him with. That wouldnt be reasonable.
Lloyds was only providing the cover  as requested by Mr H based on the information he 
provided. And I can see the policy terms and conditions contain  the following:
Please read this Policy  carefully and see that it meets with your requirements.  If not, or if 
there is anything you do not understand, please tell us as soon as possible.
It wouldve  been unfair if Lloyds had assumed Mr H had the correct amount  of community  
cover in place. My understanding is that different community mandatory policies provide 
different levels  of cover; theres no uniform policy  that applies  to all. So if Lloyds had 
assumed that Mr H had buildings cover  through his community and the need for a claim 
subsequently arose,  its possible that he may not have been covered for the loss.
Taking all the circumstances into account,  Im unable to fairly conclude that Lloyds mis-
advised Mr H or shouldve been aware  that he had buildings cover through his community. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4892228