K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold her a payment protection policy  (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mrs C took out PPI in one of Nationwides branches  in 1998 at the same  time as she was 
transferring a joint mortgage into her sole name,  and applying  for a further advance. The 
policy covered her for accident  and sickness. She paid a monthly  amount  for it.
The adjudicator didnt recommend Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. Mrs C disagreed  so 
the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  or 
contradictory, I have  based my decision  on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  on 
what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and what we know  about how 
Nationwide sold PPI at the time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs C says she wasnt told the PPI was optional, Nationwide told her it was compulsory and 
pressured her to take it out. Nationwide disputes this. I cant  know what  was said in the 
meeting but Ive looked carefully at the available  paperwork. Mrs C points  out that she didnt 
select PPI on the further advance  application form. But equally she didnt decline it and that 
option was given. So I dont think the form conclusively shows Mrs C didnt want PPI.
Mrs C then recalls  receiving a letter from Nationwide, she says she called to query  it as it 
said PPI was compulsory.  She says Nationwide confirmed  this was the case on that phone 
call. She cant provide  a copy of this letter, but thats  not unreasonable  given  how long ago it 
was. And Nationwide has no record of the call. Mrs C then went on to complete a separate 
application form for the PPI. Theres nothing on the form that I think could reasonably have 
led Mrs C to believe she had to have  it. 
Whilst its possible that Nationwide said something to make  Mrs C think  the PPI was 
mandatory for her, I have  to reach  a conclusion  about what I think  is most likely, based  on 
the balance of the evidence. And Ive found nothing in the paperwork  from the time of the 
sale that indicates the PPI was presented to her as mandatory. I have thought  carefully 
about Mrs Cs comments but I have to take into account how long ago the sale was and how 
that might  impact what she recalls. 
On balance, I think its more likely  that Nationwide made Mrs C aware that she had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. 
Nationwide has said it didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C, and from what Ive seen I think  
thats probably right. Theres no evidence that it reviewed  her individual  circumstances as 
Ref: DRN41961142part of the sales  process.  So it didnt have  to check if the policy  was right for her. But it did 
have to make sure Mrs C got all the information  she needed to decide if the PPI was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont  think  she 
wouldve been put off taking out the policy if she had received better  information.  I say this 
because:
Mrs C was eligible for the policy given her circumstances at the time and the policys  
terms and conditions.
Mrs C wasnt  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main  benefits, 
such as those affecting people with pre-existing medical conditions. As she couldve 
benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely better  information  about 
the policys exclusions and limitations would have changed  her decision to buy it. 
Mrs C was self-employed so she had no employment benefits. The PPI would have 
paid out for up to 12 months for each successful accident and sickness claim. She 
had £34,000 in savings, but the PPI would  have allowed her to use these to cover 
other living expenses  whilst not working   or to keep them intact  for her future needs. 
Given the consequences for Mrs C of defaulting  on a large and long term debt 
secured against  her home, I think the PPI would have been useful for her if she was 
sick or had an accident.
I dont know when  the cost was first made  clear  to Mrs C but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. And she could cancel it without 
further cost if at any stage she no longer wanted it.
So, it follows  I dont think Mrs C has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4196114