K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  sold to Mrs T by 
Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) when she was taking out a charge  card in 1995.  
background
Mrs T took the charge card and PPI policy by completing an application form. The policy  cost 
Mrs T 64p for each £100 she owed on her credit  card. If shed successfully claimed  on the 
policy, it would have  paid out 15% of the outstanding balance on her charge card each  
month until she returned to work or until the balance had been  cleared.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint.
Mrs T didn't agree. As the complaint remains unresolved its been passed to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint.
Mrs T has said she believed the cover was compulsory. Allianz  has provided a copy of the 
application form, which Mrs T completed and signed.
There is a section on the application form headed,  payment protection.  A box has been  
ticked in order to select the insurance. Underneath it asks for the full name of the insured 
person. Mrs T has printed her name and given her date of birth. If Mrs T did not require the 
insurance, she did not have to tick the box and complete  the section. Mrs T completed  the 
application in her own time without any input from an Allianz representative so I think  she 
probably had time to read and understand  the form.
Based on the evidence  provided Im satisfied  that Mrs T would have seen that the policy  was 
optional and that she chose to buy it.
There is a statement on the form, which says we strongly recommend you take cover  by 
ticking the box. But I dont think this can be read as a personal recommendation to Mrs T 
because Allianz  did not find out information about her personal  circumstances. And as Ive 
mentioned above,  Mrs T didnt speak to a representative and completed  the application on 
her own.  The sale wasnt an advised one so Allianz didn't need  to look into Mrs Ts 
circumstances to decide if the policy was right for her. It was for Mrs T to decide.
Mrs T has said that Allianz did not explain the terms and conditions of the insurance.  I 
accept Allianz may not have given Mrs T all the information it should have at the time she 
took the PPI. But I dont  think that affected  Mrs Ts decision to buy the policy.
Ref: DRN46495942Mrs T was eligible  for the policy and would not have  been caught by any of the significant 
limitations. For example,  she was in permanent employment and did not have a pre-existing 
medical condition.
Mrs T has told us she was employed but wouldnt receive any employee benefits if she 
wasnt able to work because of accident, sickness or involuntary redundancy. But the policy 
would have paid out until Mrs T returned  to work or the balance  had been  cleared. And this 
would have been in addition to her work benefits. So I think she would  have found  the policy 
useful if she had been unable to work.
The policy was competitively priced.  I havent  seen any evidence that Mrs T found  this too 
expensive so I dont  think that the cost would have been enough to dissuade  Mrs T from 
taking out the policy.
Because of this, I think Mrs T would still have bought the policy if shed understood the costs  
and benefits. This means Mrs T is not worse off because of anything Allianz did wrong. 
This means  Allianz doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But Allianz has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T because: 
Allianz got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs T about  that. Because Allianz didnt  tell her, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Allianz has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Allianz  Insurance Plc does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But Allianz Insurance Plc does have  to pay back to Mrs T any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4649594