K821x#15complaint
Mr D says MYJAR Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
background
This complaint is about 5 loans MYJAR provided to Mr D between  April and August 2017. Mr 
Ds loans were for between £150 and £500. From what  I can see, Mr D has repaid all his 
loans.
In its final response letter  MYJAR agreed to refund all interest  and charges Mr D paid on 
loan 5.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ds complaint in part and thought MYJAR  shouldnt have given Mr 
D loan 4 or loan 5. MYJAR didnt reply  to the adjudicators view. So the complaint  was 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ref: DRN49066352Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.  
MYJAR asked Mr D for information about  his income  and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. 
For loans one to three,  given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ds 
circumstances at the time and his history with MYJAR, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. From what  I can see, there wasnt anything in the information Mr D provided  
or the information MYJAR shouldve been aware of, which meant  it wouldve been  
proportionate to start verifying what Mr D was saying. So I cant say MYJAR was wrong  to 
have provided  loans one to three. Mr D hasnt disagreed with this and so I dont think I need  
to say any more about  these  loans.
At the point of loan 4 I think the business should have looked more  closely  at Mr Ds 
finances given  his borrowing pattern. By loan 4, Mr D had been borrowing consistently and 
this was his fourth loan in just under a month.  Mr D asked for loan 4 a week after loan 3 was 
repaid.
Looking at Mr Ds borrowing history up to this point I can see that he repaid all his loans 
early but then within days asked to borrow  again. So MYJAR ought to have realised it was 
more likely than not Mr D was having  to borrow further to cover  the hole repaying  his 
previous loan was leaving  in his finances  and that Mr D was not sustainably repaying the 
credit. Mr Ds borrowing  pattern was at odds with the amount of disposable income he had 
declared. If MYJAR had carried out further  checks at the point of loan 4 it would have seen 
that this loan was unsustainable for Mr D. 
So I think that MYJAR shouldnt have given  Mr D loan 4 or loan 5. Mr D repaid loan 4 which 
was supposed  to be over 12 months  just under 3 months later and then the very same day 
Mr D asked for loan 5 for £175 which he repaid the next day. This erratic borrowing was at 
odds with Mr Ds declared disposable income  and suggested he was in financial difficulty  
and borrowing elsewhere. I agree with the adjudicator and I think that better checks  would 
have revealed  that Mr D couldnt sustainably afford  to repay these loans.
So Im upholding  Mr Ds complaint about  loans  4 and 5.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr D towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans, not including  anything it has already refunded.
Ref: DRN49066353B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr D which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr D originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Pay Mr D the total of A plus B.
D.Remove any adverse  entries from Mr Ds credit file about  loans  4 and 5. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr D a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ds complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should pay Mr D compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4906635