K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (Tesco) have not upheld a claim he 
made to them  under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section  75).
background 
Mr B bought bespoke sofas from a company Ill call T in July 2018.  He paid with his Tesco  
credit card and the sofas were delivered  on 5 September 2018.
But Mr B was disappointed with the sofas. He complained to T that the fabric was wrong as 
the stripe  was too wide. They accepted  that the goods were wrong and offered to replace 
them. But Mr B wanted T to collect the goods  and provide  a full refund and, unable  to get 
through to T, he made a like claim to Tesco under section 75.
Tesco rejected  his claim. They explained  that there wasnt the necessary link between  the 
debtor (Mr B); the creditor (Tesco) and the supplier T. They  said the invoice was made out 
to T but the funds  were paid to another company  M and whilst theyd tried to contact T 
to clarify the situation they had not received a response.
So Mr B referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided her opinion. She 
noted that M shared the same phone line and address  as T and that this was the number 
on the invoice.  She also noted that when  she searched for M on the internet the primary 
result linked her to T. So she thought  it was most  likely that the two companies were 
associated and the d-c-s link hadnt  been  broken.
She therefore went on to consider Mr Bs claim.  She thought that the photographs  he had 
provided demonstrated the sofas  he received werent the ones  hed ordered.  So she thought  
Tesco should uphold  his claim;  take receipt  of the sofas and refund the full amount Mr B had 
paid including  any interest that had been  charged  on the debt.
Tesco didnt  agree with the investigator. They looked for the businesses on the Companies  
House website but could not find T and therefore  said that they were  unable to associate  
the businesses  and the link could not be demonstrated.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Tesco but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why. Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or 
contradictory, as some  of it is here I have to base my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
Ref: DRN44107462when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr B made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
One of those circumstances is that there  must be a valid debtor, creditor, supplier 
relationship. For the creditor, Tesco in this case, to have liability it needs to have a relevant 
relationship with the supplier of the goods and here Tesco argues that it hasnt, as the 
payment was made to M and not T.
I understand that Tesco have been  unable to find a trace of T on Companies House but all 
companies are not listed there and as theres  no mention on the invoice of T being 
incorporated I think its fair to look elsewhere  to search for any association  between T and 
M. Im persuaded that there is sufficient evidence of an association between  them  as:
they appear to share the same  address;
they appear to share the same  phone number  the one on the invoice;
web searches link M to T.
So I think that it is likely T and M are associated and the necessary d-c-s link therefore  
exists.
Ive considered the photographs Mr B has provided  and can see that the sofas are in a 
broad pattern. The sample pattern contains  narrow  stripes as well and I therefore think 
theres sufficient evidence here that what Mr B received wasnt  what he asked for and in 
those circumstances  I would agree  with the redress suggested by the investigator.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC to:
collect the goods from Mr B at no cost to him;
refund  the full amount  plus any interest that has been charged  on that sum.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Ref: DRN44107463Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4410746