K821x#15Complaint
Mr D says J D Williams & Company Limited  (J D Williams)  irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
This complaint is about a catalogue  shopping  account J D Williams  initially  provided to Mr D 
in October 2011.  Mr D was initially given a credit limit of £125. This limit was increased  7 
times until it eventually reached  £1,500.00 in February 2013. Mr D fell into arrears  and his 
account was eventually sold on in 2018,  although  Mr D has said that hes since  repaid this 
balance.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ds complaint and thought  the limit increases from the 
fourth one onwards, in April 2012,  shouldnt have been given. J D Williams didnt respond  
and the complaint was passed  to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  unaffordable and irresponsible lending - including  the key relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could afford  to repay what he was being  lent in a sustainable manner. These checks  could 
take into account a number  of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why she thought it J D Williams unfairly  increased     
Mr Ds credit limit from April 2012 onwards.  As J D Williams didnt respond, I dont know 
what it thinks our adjudicator got wrong.
Ref: DRN43168332Nonetheless Ive also looked at the overall pattern of J D Williams lending history  with Mr D, 
with a view to seeing if there was a point at which J D Williams  should  reasonably  have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful.  And so J D Williams should 
have realised that it shouldnt have increased Mr Ds credit limit. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ds case, I also think  that this point was reached in 
April 2012. I say this because proportionate  checks would have shown J D Williams that    
Mr D was having difficulty managing his money.  Mr D was in a cycle  of payday lending  and 
was relying on further lending  in order to repay what he already owed. So proportionate 
check will have  shown J D Williams that Mr D was already struggling to sustainably  repay  
what he owed and that there was a significant  risk increasing his credit limit in these 
circumstances would  lead to his indebtedness  increasing unsustainably.
I think that Mr D lost out because J D Williams continued to increasing Mr Ds credit limit 
from April 2012 onwards because this unfairly prolonged Mr Ds indebtedness by allowing 
him to use credit he couldnt afford  over an extended period  of time and the interest  being  
added got him into further debt. So J D Williams should put things right.
Putting things  right  what  J D Williams needs to do
rework the account to ensure that from April 2012 onwards interest is only charged 
on the first £500.00 outstanding to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases 
should have been  provided.  All late payment and over limit fees should also be 
removed; and
If an outstanding  balance remains on the account once these adjustments  have been 
made J D Williams  should contact Mr D to arrange a suitable repayment  plan for this. 
If J D Williams considers  it appropriate  to record negative information on Mr Ds 
credit file, it should backdate this to April 2012 .
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer being  
an outstanding  balance, then any extra should  be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr D, along with 8% simple interest  on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were)  until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments  have been made, then J D Williams should remove  any 
adverse information  from Mr Ds credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest.  J D 
Williams must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
Ref: DRN43168333J D Williams sold the outstanding balance on this account to a third party  debt purchaser.   
Mr D says hes already paid this off but hasnt been able to provide confirmation  of this. In 
any event, should  an outstanding balance  remain  J D Williams either needs to buy the 
account back from the third party and make  the necessary  adjustments, or pay an amount to 
the third party  in order for it to make the necessary adjustments. If Mr D has settled the 
account already  then any compensation  due (when  the payments made to the debt 
purchaser are taken into account) should  be paid directly to Mr D.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out, Im partially  upholding Mr Ds complaint. J D Williams & Company 
Limited should put things right in the way set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4316833