K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC incorrectly  returned his £20,000 cheque unpaid,  
which prevented  him from contributing to his ISA.  
He says hes missed out on tax savings and future investment growth.  
background
Barclays upheld the complaint. It accepted  that it had erroneously refused Mr Ps cheque  on 
the basis that it was out of date when  it wasnt. But it said even if it had accepted  the cheque 
initially, it still would have  returned it, because Mr Ps signature didnt match  the one it had 
on record. A cheque was later received and funds  paid into the company of Mr Ps choice.  
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In short,  
he said:
The cheque was dated 2018 and not 2015.  Barclays error had prevented Mr P from 
investing in his ISA at the time.  
Because Mr P was a basic rate tax payer it was unlikely he would have lost out on 
tax savings, even  though he wasnt able to invest in the tax year 2017/2018.  
Despite what Barclays said, the cheque in question wasnt  randomly selected and 
wasnt returned because of issues with the signature.  
Barclays should consider if there has been  a loss in terms of the number  of units  
Mr P actually  purchased,  compared  to the units he could have  purchased had there 
been no errors and his money invested on time.
Barclays should offer Mr P £250  compensation for the trouble and upset caused and 
consider what position  he would have  been  in had the cheque  been accepted at the 
first instance.   
Barclays disagreed  with the adjudicators  view and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. On 
the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Barclays  says, Im satisfied that its 
error prevented Mr P from contributing to his ISA at the time.  
Im not persuaded by Barclays reasoning that the check would have been returned anyway. 
I dont think its argument about the signature is fair or reasonable as this is not what  
happened. Im not persuaded that this was likely to happen. 
 
In other  words, whilst  its possible on the face of the evidence, and on balance,  I dont agree 
that the cheque would have been randomly selected for checking,  or that the signatures 
were so different  that even if it was, it would have led to the cheque  being returned unpaid.
Ref: DRN40807082On balance Im satisfied its more likely (than not) the cheque would have just been paid but 
for Barclays error relating to the dates. 
I note Mr Ps cheque was subsequently  accepted  without issue,  but two weeks  later, and he 
was eventually able to invest in the company  of his choice. Im also persuaded that given his 
tax status he was unlikely to lose out on tax allowance. 
Overall I think  Barclays is responsible for the delay and the trouble and upset caused  by its 
error. And any loss of units  that Mr P might otherwise have  been  able to purchase, had the 
initial cheque been accepted. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
I instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay the following redress:
Calculate the units Mr P purchased when the cheque payments went  through,  with 
what he could have  purchased, had there been  no error and Mr Ps initial  cheque  had 
been accepted on time. If it transpires Mr P is worse off, Barclays  should  make up 
the difference in units. 
£250 compensation for trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Dara Islam 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4080708