K821x#15complaint
Mr P and Ms L complain, on behalf  of their business  which  Ill call T, that transactions that 
were meant to go to Ts account  have  been  incorrectly processed to another merchants 
account by American  Express Payment  Services  Limited.
background
T has retail  outlets for which  they have payment terminals supplied  by Barclaycard. T had a 
terminal they had tried using in one of its stores but because of poor signal, it was kept as a 
back-up. When a new store was being  moved  to, it was decided  they would try the old 
terminal again and this was set up to accept American Express payments in about July 
2017. 
Following the move  to the new store in September 2017, T started to use to the terminal for 
payments. And from October 2017  this included payments using  American Express cards.  
However, payments  made between 3 October 2017 and 23 November 2017 went to another 
merchants account  with American Express. T raised  this with American Express who 
discovered the wrong merchant ID (MID) had been used which directed payments to the 
other account. T complained about  this as it had lost over £20,000.
American Express looked into the complaint  but didnt uphold  it. It said it wasnt  responsible  
for the installation of the payment terminals; that was a matter  for Barclaycard. But it 
recognised the other merchant had funds  they werent entitled to and initiated contact with a 
view to obtaining those  funds back. 
At the same time as this T also complained to Barclaycard but didnt receive a response.  
Unhappy with both parties, T asked us to look into this complaint. After  much 
correspondence between  the three parties this is what we know.
From T:
Has two retail outlets, shop one and shop two. In relation to this matter it had three 
payment terminals in total.  Shop  one had two terminals, one which worked and 
another which struggled to get a signal, which Mr P and Ms L decided to keep as a 
back up terminal. I will call this terminal two. Terminal two had been  in Ts 
possession since about December 2014  but wasnt used until September 2017.
 Mr P and Ms L decided  to use terminal two for shop two. There was an issue  with a 
terminal being used  for this shop  but it isnt clear which  one. A third terminal  was 
obtained.  
The store  manager  might  have given the terminal  engineer  the MID from terminal two 
for terminal three. But the issues  stem  from terminal two having  the incorrect MID. 
No engineer visited to set up terminal  two for American Express  payments. This was 
done over the phone. Barclaycard had the MID information; it wasnt  given by 
anyone working  for T. 
A test receipt was done in June 2018  showing the MID number had been changed to 
the correct one and this was for terminal two, without  an engineers visit or any input 
by T. 
From American Express:
It doesnt set up the terminals,  which is the responsibility of the terminal  provider.  
Ref: DRN43369082Mr P told it that a receipt was printed out which is how the engineer was given the 
wrong MID. Mr P has now said that was a hypothetical explanation for what might 
have happened.  
It batches up MID numbers to give to the payment terminal providers, who then 
distribute them  to the merchants. 
The wrong merchants  MID was set up from September 2017 and that merchant  
doesnt use Barclaycard as the terminal provider. 
It doesnt duplicate  or reuse MID numbers.  
Payment terminal are reused. If the terminal isnt cleared properly  the MID number 
will remain  and this might explain why the wrong MID was on the receipt used to 
give to the engineer.  
The wrong MID number is a recent MID series.  
It has been in contact with the recipient of the funds to obtain the funds  back.
From Barclaycard:
It doesnt receive MIDs from Amex  but gets them from its customer. 
The terminal was set up by an engineer  who received  the MID number from a receipt 
given to it (information  Barclaycard  got from American Express).  
It doesnt have  any actual records of how the engineer obtained the MID number.  It 
also doesnt have  any call records about the terminal set up. 
The correct MID number is showing for the receipt in June 2018, as it had been 
notified by American Express the wrong  MID was being used and so it corrected 
this. 
The investigator ultimately concluded  American Express  had provided  the same  MID to two 
different parties  and so it had done something  wrong. She asked it to reimburse T with the 
lost funds plus 8% interest. She also asked it to pay compensation to T of £300,  in addition 
to a previous award of £200 for it not acting sooner, for the delays and inconvenience 
caused. 
T agreed with the outcome.  Because there  were  delays  in American Express  responding to 
her assessment the matter was referred  for an ombudsmans decision. Before it reached me 
American Express provided further submissions.  It said it had received further  information  
from Barclaycard that:
The terminal was originally set up for shop one. 
The terminal wasnt used from December 2014  until September  2017. Non American 
Express payments started from 26 September  2017.  
American Express transactions  started  on 3 October 2017. 
Barclaycard did not provide the MID to the engineer. 
It says this information shows it didnt duplicate the MID to Barclaycard. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint. I 
explain why below. 
Ref: DRN43369083I would say at the outset  this case hasnt been  straightforward. And getting  to the bottom  of 
what went wrong hasnt  been helped by the contradictory information provided by the 
parties. And its been particularly unhelpful  that neither American Express nor Barclaycard 
can be certain about how this particular terminal and MID set up took place. Im also mindful 
that Mr P has also been contradictory; telling us the incorrect MID didnt come  from them  but 
also saying it might have  been given by a store manager. 
But I think its possible to cut through all of this and get to the heart of what went  wrong  two 
different merchants having the same MID number. 
I have considered Barclaycards  comments that it receives the MID numbers from the 
customer. But American Express has told us that it batches the MID numbers up and sends 
them to the terminal  providers to distribute to customers. As the provider  of the merchant  
facility and the business that creates  the MIDs,  I think  it is best placed  to know how these 
are distributed. With that in mind,  Im satisfied it was American Express that provided the 
same MID to two different parties   there is no evidence  the MIDs were  created or 
distributed by anyone else.  
In reaching this conclusion, I would like to respond to American Express points  that are 
relevant to this. American Express has said if a terminal is recycled and not cleared properly 
and MID number may remain  in situ and this may have been  how it appeared on a receipt 
and was given  to an engineer. 
Mr P has said no engineer visited to set up the terminal; this was all done over the phone. 
No evidence has been provided by any of the parties  that an engineer  actually did visit. And 
if one did, no persuasive evidence has been  provided about how the engineer obtained  the 
MID  everything said and provided has been conjecture. The receipt relied  on by American 
Express and given  by it to Barclaycard as evidence of how the MID was obtained,  is dated  6 
October 2017  three days after the first transaction that went to the wrong account. So it 
isnt physically possible for this to be the receipt that any party relied on to obtain the MID.  
And in order for the MID to appear on this receipt  it needed to have been obtained and set 
up beforehand.  
I accept terminals may be recycled. But Barclaycard has confirmed, as has Mr P, that this 
terminal has been in Ts possession since around  December  2014. If, as American Express  
tells us the incorrect MID is a more recent  series, I question how that MID came to be on that 
terminal, which had been in Ts possession for three years at the time of the transactions  in 
question. That doesnt seem possible if its a more recent MID.
Furthermore, even if I accepted the MID was on the terminal, I can only see two possibilities 
for how the funds went to the wrong  account  either the incorrect party was the previous 
owner of the terminal and just happened to be the party that ended up with the same MID 
again with another terminal provider or American  Express gave the same MID, at a later 
date, to the other party. I consider the first option, whilst possible,  to be so highly 
coincidental that it isnt the most  likely explanation. Overall, I consider  the most likely  
explanation is that American  Express duplicated the MID  it matters little whether that was 
to Barclaycard or the other terminal provider. 
As I have found that American Express  did something wrong, it is for it to put this matter  
right. And receipt of the funds by the wrong merchant  is a matter between  it and the other 
merchant. 
Ref: DRN43369084how American Express  need to put this right
T has been  without these  funds for some  considerable time. And although  American Express  
was taking steps to obtain  the funds  back  from the recipient, Im not aware that any 
payments have been made to Ts account.  With that in mind  I require American  Express  to:
Pay T £20,610   the value of the missing transactions (less any payments obtained 
from the wrong recipient and already refunded). 
Add 8% simple interest per annum to each  of the transactions from the date they 
should have applied to Ts account to the date of settlement.  
T has also been caused considerable  inconvenience  in this matter.  Mr P and Ms L have 
been put to the time and trouble of getting this matter  sorted  and T has been  without the use 
of these funds   which undoubtedly  has had an impact  on cash  flow and the general day to 
day running of the business. In all I consider an additional award of £300 to be fair and 
reasonable for the impact  this has had on T.
If American Express thinks  its obliged to deduct any tax from any interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate to T if it asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I require American  Express Payment Services Limited to pay T 
compensation in line with what I have  set out above. It should also make this payment  within  
28 days of Ts acceptance of my decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4336908