K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1999 with 
a mortgage. Mr G and Miss S say The Co-operative Bank Plc (who  trading at the time as 
Britannia), mis-sold them the PPI. For simplicity, I will refer to the business as The Co-op 
for much of the rest of this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr G and Miss Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr G and Miss S said they took the PPI but only because they thought they had to in order to 
get the mortgage. I can see that to get the cover  they had to complete an application form 
that was separate to the application for the mortgage. I can see that Mr G and Miss S 
selected the benefit amount and the split of the benefit between them. This suggests to me 
that some  discussion most  likely took place, about  the PPI and Mr G and Miss Ss 
circumstances, before this section  was filled in. 
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows The Co-op  didnt make Mr G and Miss S aware the 
PPI was optional.  Considering how long ago the sale was, I havent seen sufficient evidence 
to be able to uphold the complaint on this point. So having considered all the submissions I 
have received in this case, I think its more likely that The Co-op  wouldve  made  Mr G and 
Miss S aware that the PPI was optional and that they chose to take it, even if they cant  
remember that now.
The Co-op didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr G and Miss S, so it didnt  have to check  if it was 
right for them. But it did have to make  sure Mr G and Miss S got the information they needed 
to decide if it was right for them. Its possible that the information The Co-op gave Mr G and 
Miss S about PPI wasnt  as clear as it couldve been. But considering their circumstances at 
the time of the sale, I dont think that clearer information about  the policy would have led 
Mr G and Miss S to make  a different decision. 
I say this because  they were eligible  for the policy and they dont appear to have been 
affected by any of the main exclusions from or limitations to the cover the policy  offered. 
And having thought about the circumstances of Mr G and Miss S at the time,  I think  they 
could have found the policy useful.  Mr G and Miss S told us they each had good sick pay 
initially, but that it dropped significantly after six months, such  that they may have needed to 
rely on some savings they had. Mr G and Miss S told us these savings were substantial. But 
when asked, they were  not able to provide any evidence to support their testimony.  I notice 
that the mortgage application records the amount they were borrowing on the mortgage  and 
the details of four other loans they had at the time of the sale.  So it seems  that they were 
keen to protect any savings they may have  had in that they hadnt used them to repay their 
existing loans or to reduce the mortgage  they were taking. This policy  wouldve paid out for 
up to 12 months if Mr G or Miss S was too ill to work and would have paid out in addition  to 
whatever sick pay they had. And the policy would have further protected their savings. And it 
Ref: DRN40099922would have provided some financial protection to Mr G and Miss S in the event they lost a 
job. 
So thinking  about this and the potentially serious consequences  of defaulting on a loan 
secured on your home,  I think the policy could have  been useful for Mr G and Miss S if 
something went wrong. And so I dont think that better information  about the policy  would 
have changed  the minds  of Mr G and Miss S about taking out PPI.
I have looked  at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given  by 
the adjudicator  in their assessment letter, and set out above, I do not think  the policy was 
mis-sold. So The Co-op doesnt need  to refund everything Mr G and Miss S paid for it. 
But The Co-op  has already offered to give Mr G and Miss S back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
The Co-op will make  arrangements to pay Mr G and Miss S now that Ive issued my final 
decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
think the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold   so The Co-operative  Bank  Plc doesnt  have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G and Miss S.
But The Co-operative Bank Plc has already offered to pay back  to Mr G and Miss S any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. So I make 
no further award against The Co-operative  Bank  Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 August  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4009992