K821x#15complaint
Mrs C is unhappy about the fee Help Your Claim Limited (HYC) charged her for a mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  claim. 
She is represented in this complaint by Mr C, as he has power  of attorney and has made 
submissions on her behalf, for simplicity, Ill refer to Mr C throughout. 
background
In July 2018, Mr C agreed for HYC to submit a PPI claim  on behalf of his wife. Mr C, as he 
had power of attorney, signed  the agreement. Mr C said he signed  the paperwork in his 
wifes name,  not his own. The claim was successful. But Mr C said he wasnt  happy that 
HYC charged a success fee of 30% plus VAT.  
Mr C doesnt feel the fee being asked for by HYC  should be paid,  as he said HYC wasnt  
authorised to act as his representative. He said its authorisation had been cancelled after the 
PPI provider had asked for his wifes signature. Mr C said when hed told the PPI provider 
hed power of attorney they asked  him to send the necessary documents to them.  And that 
without these documents he said the claim wouldnt have been paid out. So feels  he had 
done the work, not HYC.
Our investigator found the claim had been  successful before Mr C said he no longer wanted 
HYC to act on his behalf. But she said HYC  should limit its fee to the 20% plus VAT cap that 
was introduced in July 2018. 
Mr C disagreed and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
our investigator reached. I know this isnt the response Mr C was hoping  for so Ill explain 
why.
The agreement Mr C signed, with HYC,  on 27 July 2018 was on behalf of his wife. It was on 
a No win No fee basis. This means HYC charged  a percentage success  fee, not a fee 
based upon the amount  of work  they actually did. So, any work done  on any unsuccessful 
claims would  be done for free. Where  a claim was successful, HYCs fee may be more or 
less than the value of the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this 
type of agreement. 
Mr C said the claim  wouldnt have been successful if he hadnt  sent the additional 
documents the PPI provider asked for. But the terms and conditions Mr C signed say:
I/we will provide HYC and the financial provider with any information requested to pursue 
the claim where requested
Mr C chose to deal with the PPI provider direct, when  they asked for confirmation  that he 
could act on his wifes  behalf. But in signing the agreement in July 2018,  hed asked  HYC  to 
represent him with the claim.  His choice  doesnt alter this fact. When  the PPI provider  asked 
Ref: DRN40444282for the extra documentation, Mr C should  have told HYC about  this, to let HYC, as his 
representative deal with the PPI provider. And so, it doesnt make  HYCs fee unjustified.
Mr C said HYC were  no longer authorised to act on his behalf.  But HYC were  only made 
aware of this, on 1 March  2019, after it got a letter from the PPI provider saying theyd been 
instructed to remove HYC as Mr Cs representative. But Mr C had, in February 2019, already 
been told by the PPI provider that the claim had been successful. Under  the terms of the 
agreement Mr C signed it says:
.. if there is a reasonable offer made and cancellation is attempted HYC will be entitled to 
charge their full fee
So, I think HYC have  been  clear  that a fee would be applied on a successful claim. And the 
claim was successful. So Im satisfied HYC can charge a fee.
In the terms and conditions  of the agreement HYC set out its fee as being 30% plus VAT. It 
also gave an example of what the monetary value of the fee would be, and what  payment its 
client would  get. 
But the Financial  Guidance and Claims Act 2018 (the Act) required the Claims Management 
Regulator to introduce  a fee cap for PPI claims. The fee cap came into force  on 10 July 2018 
 before Mr C signed the agreement with HYC. From this date, claims management 
companies couldnt legally charge a success fee of more than 20% plus VAT.
HYC did initially charge  its fee at 30% plus VAT,  but as the cap came into effect 10 July 
2018, HYC cant charge any more than 20% plus VAT.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I partially  uphold Mr Cs complaint and require Help Your  
Claim Ltd to limit its charge to 20% plus VAT. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4044428