K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI). 
background
Mr S bought the PPI policy in July 2002 when he took out his credit  card.  Canada  Square 
says it was an online application and it didnt advise Mr S to take out the policy. Mr S says 
he didnt need  it as he had good  employee benefits.
I understand the policy cost 74p for each £100 Mr S owed on his credit  card.  If hed 
successfully claimed on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment,  each month it 
wouldve paid out 10% of what  he owed  on the card when he stopped  working. This 
wouldve carried on for up to 12 months  per claim.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ss complaint didnt uphold  it. Mr S disagrees  and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Canada Square  has sent us a copy of its computer records of Mr Ss credit card application, 
along with screenshots of its application  process at the time. The screenshots  show  there  
were yes and no buttons for an applicant to click depending on whether or not they wanted  
PPI. The computer records  for Mr Ss application show yes has been clicked.  I cant see 
that this couldve  been done  by anyone other than Mr S. So I think its most likely Mr S had a 
choice about the PPI and decided to take it. 
I dont think Canada Square advised  Mr S to take out the PPI. But it shouldve given him 
enough information for him to decide if the policy was right for him. 
The screenshots show the PPI policy information  was included underneath  the yes and no 
options. Im not sure how the information  wouldve appeared on screen, so I cant  be certain 
Canada Square  clearly pointed out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But I dont think 
Mr S wouldve  been  affected  by any of these so I dont think clearer  information on these  
things, had it been needed, wouldve stopped Mr S from buying  it. 
Canada Square  explained on the screen  the cost of the policy  was 74p for each  £100  owed. 
But I dont think it was clear interest  could  be charged on the premiums,  or that Mr S 
wouldve had to keep  paying for the policy during a claim. 
Mr S says hed have got six months  full pay followed by six months  half pay when he took 
out the policy. But I think the PPI  which, as Ive said, wouldve helped  with Mr Ss card 
repayments for up to 12 months for each successful accident, sickness or unemployment 
claim he made  could still have given  him a useful  benefit. It wouldve paid out on top of his 
Ref: DRN49897602sick pay and, potentially,  for longer than his full sick pay lasted. And it wouldve paid out in 
the same  way if Mr S lost his job.
Because of this, I think Mr S would still have bought the policy  if hed fully understood the 
cost and the benefits. So overall, I dont think the policy was mis-sold
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4989760