K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint is about  a claim they made on their Liverpool Victoria  (LV) legal 
expenses insurance  policy.
Mr and Mrs T say LV acted unfairly  in declining their claim for cover.  
All references to LV include  their claims handlers.
background
In September  2016 Mr and Mrs T made a claim on their legal expenses insurance policy for 
cover for their legal costs in relation to a boundary dispute. They asked LV to pay their own 
solicitors costs in dealing with this but LV refused. Instead they offered Mr and Mrs T the 
use of their own panel solicitor to consider  the claim in line with the policy  terms.
After agreed to their appointment, the panel firm considered  Mr and Mrs Ts claim.  Mr and 
Mrs T supplied them  with a barristers opinion they obtained to help with this. The opinion set 
out that their claim had better than 50% prospects of success but that it wasnt  proportionate 
to pursue. It also recommended the claim  be made for a declaration of the boundary  line 
between Mr and Mrs Ts property and their neighbours. 
The panel  firm reviewed  the opinion together with a surveyors report  Mr and Mrs T had 
obtained and a number of other items they supplied. They concluded the claim didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success as required by the policy. They also said the claim wasnt 
covered because it was for determining a boundary rather than defending property rights,  
which was what the policy covered.
Mr and Mrs T were  unhappy with this. They felt the policy should respond to their claim, 
particularly because theyd spent a lot of their own money in obtaining legal advice. They  
were also concerned that they couldnt fence off their own property from their neighbours. 
The fact that the dispute  remained  unresolved  also meant their property wasnt  saleable.  
Because of this they wanted LV to help them settle  their dispute. 
LV said there was no cover available so they couldnt help Mr and Mrs T any further. Mr and 
Mrs T brought a complaint  to us about  this. Two different investigators looked at their 
complaint and concluded it shouldnt  be upheld. Mr and Mrs T dont agree so the matter has 
been passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. Ill explain  why.
Its a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies that any intended claim has a 
reasonable prospect of succeeding. In most cases  these policies also require  claims to be 
proportionate to pursue. Mr and Mrs Ts policy is no exception. We dont think  this is unfair. 
Court action can be expensive. A privately  paying customer  wouldnt want to bear the cost if 
advised its unlikely  to succeed or that the cost in bringing or defending a claim would 
outweigh the benefit of it. A legal expenses  insurer  cant be expected  to either.
Ref: DRN42505842Where an insurer has withdrawn funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate  the merits 
of the underlying claim. Instead we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly.  So long as it 
has got advice  from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally question its reliance on 
that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong  or based on factual mistakes.   LV did 
this; they obtained the advice of the panel firm, who took into account  the advice of Mr and 
Mrs Ts barrister. That advice was that the claim wasnt proportionate to pursue. I 
understand that the panel firm and the barrister were suitably qualified to advise on property 
cases such as Mr and Mrs Ts. As such LV were generally entitled to rely on their advice and 
Im not aware of any reason  why they shouldnt  have  done so in this case. 
Ive also considered what the panel firm have said about Mr and Mrs Ts claim being for 
something thats not covered by the policy. The policy  is in place to protect Mr and Mrs Ts 
property rights, not establish them. In this case Mr and Mrs T were  looking to bring or 
counterclaim for a declaration in relation to the position of the boundary between their 
property and their neighbours. Without a Court determination of the position  of the boundary  
they wouldnt be able to claim for trespass.  This accords with both the advice of their own 
barrister and the panel firm. They also wanted to claim for damage to their property,  which 
their surveyor says lies on their neighbours land. Without a determination as to the position  
of the boundary, LV have  said a claim for this cant be pursued under the policy  terms. I 
understand the reasons  for this. In simple terms, if the property Mr and Mrs T say has been  
damaged is on their neighbours land, rather than their own,  its likely to be considered  as 
trespassing. Whatever the case,  the merits of the damage issue  cant be established until 
the position of the boundary is known. Because of this I think it was reasonable for LV to 
refuse cover in respect  of this claim on a standalone  basis.
I know Mr and Mrs T had some concerns about the surveyors report being subject to 
limitations. LV has checked this with the panel firm who have advised that theres no 
indication the report was subject to such limitations  that wouldve changed their view of the 
claim- which is essentially that is that its to establish  a boundary rather  than protect Mr and 
Mrs Ts existing rights.  
I realise Mr and Mrs T arent happy  with the outcome of the panel firms assessment and 
potentially the advice of their own barrister.  Those  professionals werent under LVs control. 
They are independent professionals with their own regulator and complaints procedures.  If 
Mr and Mrs T remain unhappy  with their actions, they can complain separately to them  or 
through the Legal Ombudsman,  if they havent  already done so.
Mr and Mrs T have  asked  LV to fund their costs  in negotiating settlement of their dispute.  
Whilst I sympathise with the position  they find themselves in, I cant ask LV to do anymore 
for the reasons Ive set out above.  
Ref: DRN42505843my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint against  Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 January 2020
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4250584