K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a number of 
single premium payment  protection insurance (PPI) policies when they took out a series  of 
loans with it.
background
Between 1994 and 2001 Mr and Mrs D took out seven loans with Nationwide. It is not known 
if PPI was taken with the first three loans, but the last four loans had PPI. Although  the loans 
were taken in Mr and Mrs Ds joint names the policies  covered Mr D only.  The policies 
covered Mr D if he lost his job for up to 12 months  or was unable  to work due to accident or 
sickness until the end of each loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  think their complaint should be upheld  in any of the sales because  she 
didnt see anything to suggest PPI wasnt presented as optional  and thought  the PPI 
wouldve been useful  for Mr and Mrs D.
Mr and Mrs D disagree.  They say they thought they had to take PPI to get the loans.  
So their complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint in any of the sales  of PPI.
Its not clear how all the policies were  sold. So I cant  say exactly what  was said at the time 
of each sale. So to decide how the PPI was presented, Ive considered  what  Mr and Mrs D 
have said along  with what Nationwide have said about its sales  process and any documents  
weve been given  from the time of each sale. 
Mr and Mrs D say they thought they had to take PPI to get the loans. Nationwide say that its 
sales process wouldve  been followed and that Mr and Mrs D wouldve been  given enough  
information to decide if they wanted to take the PPI. Nationwide  say that the PPI wouldve 
only been included  on the loan agreements if Mr and Mrs D had consented to it.
Ive seen a copy  of the last four of Mr and Mrs Ds signed loan agreements which I see 
clearly set out the costs of the loans and the Optional Credit  Insurance  with and without 
interest, separately. I dont think that Mr and Mrs D wouldve  thought the PPI wasnt optional 
when thats how its described in four of the agreements they signed. 
And I think if Mr and Mrs D hadnt  agreed to take out PPI or thought they had no choice in 
taking the PPI they wouldve questioned why it was included and described as optional 
within the agreement. So I think its likely Mr and Mrs D received the loan agreements with 
PPI on them  because they chose to take the loans  with PPI.
Ref: DRN41970192This is also supported  in their last loan application where I can see that Mr and Mrs D were 
given the option to select Yes or No to PPI on the application form and I can see they 
selected Yes.
Because of the time that has passed neither  Nationwide, or Mr and Mrs D have the 
paperwork for the first three loans that were taken. So its not known  if PPI was attached to 
these loans. But I think its reasonable to infer from the following four loans taken with PPI 
that if PPI was taken,  its likely it wouldve been presented  in a similar manner to the later 
loans and described as Optional on the loan agreements and Mr and Mrs D wouldve 
understood they had the choice over whether to take PPI - I havent seen anything to 
suggest otherwise.   
Nationwide say the sale of the PPI on each loan was non-advised. From what I understand 
of its sales process I think this wouldve been the case. What  this means is that in its view it 
didnt recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs D, it just gave them information about PPI. This 
information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so that 
Mr and Mrs D could make an informed choice  about buying PPI.
From what  I can see on the loan agreements I think the cost of the PPI was clear,  but I dont 
know if the other information given was good enough. In saying that I dont think this 
wouldve made a difference  because I still think Mr and Mrs D wouldve taken out the 
policies because at the time they took out each  loan:
From  the information I have,  theres  nothing to suggest Mr D wasnt  eligible for the 
PPI. And it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions 
in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made  it difficult to make  a 
successful claim.  
Theres nothing to suggest the PPI wasnt affordable.
Mr and Mrs D say they were entitled to a good level of sick pay. But I think the PPI 
wouldve provided them with a useful benefit  as a successful claim wouldve paid out 
on top of any sick pay Mr D was entitled to and for potentially  longer until the loan 
had been repaid,  or for up to 12 months  for unemployment. 
And from what I know about Nationwide policies they offered pro-rata refunds. So its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs D wouldve lost out if they repaid their loans back  early. 
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to 
Mr and Mrs D. I think  they wouldve still taken the PPI as it suited their needs and was of 
value to them. 
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs D.
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D because:  
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about  that. Because  Nationwide  
didnt tell Mr and Mrs D, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN41970193To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium for the 2001  loan - and I think  that is 
fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4197019