K821x#15complaint
Mr N says Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to him irresponsibly. He says that he couldnt afford 
the repayments to the loans. He thinks that Uncle Buck wouldve seen this if it had made 
better checks and not lent to him. 
background
This complaint is about five payday loans Uncle Buck provided to Mr N between  
September 2015 and September 2016.
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm (days) date ended
1 07/09/2015 £300.00 81 27/11/2015
2 09/12/2015 £300.00 79 26/02/2016
3 10/03/2016 £300.00 78 27/05/2016
4 08/06/2016 £400.00 79 26/08/2016
5 12/09/2016 £550.00 77 28/11/2016
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that Uncle Buck shouldnt have 
approved any lending after loan 4. Uncle Buck disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr N 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN49492242There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being  affordable  on a strict pounds and pence  calculation might be 
an indication  a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ns complaint. Ive decided to uphold Mr Ns complaint in part 
and have explained why below.
Mr N didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement  about  these loans. So I wont  be making a decision 
about this lending. But they were  part of the borrowing  relationship Mr N had with 
Uncle Buck.  So they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans 
he took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks  for loans 4 and 5 because 
I dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks 
lending history with Mr N, with a view to seeing  if there was a point at which  Uncle Buck 
should reasonably have  seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. 
And so Uncle  Buck  should have realised  that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ns case, I think  that this point was reached by 
loan 4. I say this because:
at loan 4 the amount Mr N was borrowing increased, but he had consistently 
borrowed just under this amount for the earlier three loans. And there  had been  no 
significant beaks  in the lending. The largest break  was just over two weeks which  
I dont think is a long enough time for Uncle Buck to think  that Mr Ns situation would 
have improved 
Uncle Buck ought to have realised it was more  likely than not Mr N was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loans was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Ns indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.  I dont  think its 
relevant that he didnt  say he was in financial difficulty to Uncle  Buck
Mr N wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Uncle Buck.  Loan  5 was 
taken out 12 months after Mr Ns first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr N had paid 
large amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to Uncle Buck  over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr N lost out because Uncle Buck continued to provide borrowing after loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ns indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit over an extended  period of time
Ref: DRN49492243the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Ns 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 4 and 5 and Uncle Buck  should  put things 
right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr N paid on loans 4 and 5;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken from loan 4 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 4 and 5 should be removed from 
Mr Ns credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mr Ns complaint.
Uncle Buck  Finance LLP should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4949224