K820x#14complaint
Mrs M in unhappy that Nationwide Building Society  wont refund her after she was the victim 
of a scam.  
background
Mrs M and her daughter  looked into purchasing a horsebox online using a specialist  
marketplace website,  one they had used previously. They contacted the seller to agree the 
purchase and were advised  to contact a transport  company that was holding  the horsebox. 
They received information about the items condition,  MOT,  mileage and service history  and 
log book. MrsM said she checked the transport company on the Companies House website, 
and it appeared  to be a legitimate company.  Mrs M says she checked with the DVLA and the 
HPI check came back to suggest there  werent  any issues  with the history of the vehicle. The 
sale was agreed  at £9,000.
Mrs M set up a new payee and made two payments of £4,500  each on 15 and 
16 November 2018. The horsebox didnt arrive on the expected  date. Mrs M was then told 
by the seller the delivery had been delayed and it would be a few more days. But when this 
date passed Mrs M contacted Nationwide, to say she thought  she had been scammed.  
Mrs M called  Nationwide on 23 November  2018, its not clear what  time the call took place.
Nationwide says it contacted the receiving bank and was told no funds remained in the 
recipient account.  
There are two versions of events about  the contact between Nationwide and the receiving 
bank. For clarity I have set them both out:
The receiving banks  version of events
It says it contacted Nationwide on 21 November 2018 to discuss  Mrs Ms transactions. 
Theres no time or date on the note the receiving bank has provided  and we havent been 
provided with evidence of the timing of the call or a copy of the call. Its notes say Nationwide 
confirmed Mrs M was a long-standing customer, the funds  had been  sent from a legitimate 
source and the payment reference  said horse  lorry. The receiving bank provided Nationwide  
with the recipient account details and was told a case would be raised and Nationwide would 
get back to the receiving  bank if necessary. 
The receiving bank  provided statements for the recipient account to show  the dates and 
times Mrs M funds credited and then debited the account.
Nationwides version of events
Nationwides internal notes show the receiving bank contacted Nationwide on 23 November 
2018, the note was created at 09.49am. It says the receiving bank had concerns about the 
payments Mrs M had made to the account  it held. The notes say the receiving bank had 
concerns about  the newly opened  recipient account;  the beneficiary  name  did not match  the 
payee name on Mrs Ms payment, and it had thought  Mrs M could have been the victim  of a 
scam. The notes say, would  we be able to set up a case  regarding this and contact the 
receiving bank if it [a scam]  is confirmed.
Ref: DRN47049992Nationwide says it doesnt have any record of any contact from the receiving bank until 
23 November 2018 and its notes dont reflect the same conversation.  It doesnt have a 
record of advising the receiving bank that the payment was genuine. And it doesnt agree 
that it squashed  the receiving banks concerns  at that point, with no investigation.  
Mrs M feels  she carried out all checks to ensure  the sale was legitimate.  Mrs M has also 
complained to the receiving bank  which has been dealt with under a separate complaint 
and I wont be commenting on it here.
One of our investigators  looked into things. He said despite being  tricked, Mrs M had 
authorised the transactions and the starting position  here is that Nationwide  isnt liable for 
transactions authorised by its customers. But he also went on to consider if Nationwides 
actions were reasonable in the circumstances  and he concluded  they were. He said the 
payments werent  unusual  or out of character given the activity on Mrs M account  so he 
didnt think Nationwide  could have prevented the scam. 
He also concluded  that Nationwide tried to recover the funds from the receiving bank, but 
these had been removed from the account by 19 November 2018, before Mrs M had even 
notified Nationwide that shed been  the victim  of a scam and before the receiving bank had 
contacted Nationwide with its own concerns about  the recipient account. As a result,  he 
didnt think Nationwide  contributed to Mrs Ms losses  when attempting to recover  her funds 
or when  it corresponded  with the receiving  bank about this.  
Mrs M disagreed and felt that both banks were  to blame for her losses.  She provided a crime 
reference number  and explained she had reported  the transport company to Trading  
Standards. 
As Mrs M didnt agree with the investigators findings the matter was passed to me to 
consider. 
I have already been in contact with Mrs M to say I have looked into her complaint. I 
explained that although the overall outcome, I had initially come  to, wasnt  different  to the 
investigators findings, I did have different rationale in reaching those provisional 
conclusions. Ive included  my provisional  findings  below  which  have been shared  with Mrs 
M and Nationwide.
my provisional findings
The regulations most  relevant to this case are the Payments  Service Regulations 2017 
(PSRs). Its the PSRs that set out when a customer and when  a bank is responsible  for 
transactions on an account.  
The transactions
A customer will normally be responsible for any transactions they authorise.  Here,  theres no 
dispute Mrs M authorised  the transactions herself. She set up the new payee from her 
current account and transferred  two amounts of £4,500, funded by credits into her account.  
I know Mrs M was caught up in a scam at this time and so she was not acting as she might 
normally. The sophistication of the scam or how much care Mrs M took before making  the 
payments isnt relevant to the matter of authorisation. All of this doesnt  change  the position 
on her having authorised  the transactions or her liability for doing so. 
Ref: DRN47049993There are some situations where we might expect  a bank to question  transactions if they are 
particularly unusual for a customer. The bank didnt ask Mrs M about the transactions whilst 
they were taking place  and the investigator  set out the reasons for this in his findings 
however, I disagree  with him on this point. 
I have reviewed Mrs Ms account statements between December 2017 and December 2018, 
and Ive looked carefully at the transactions Mrs M made as part of this scam and I think they 
were unusual and suspicious  compared the genuine  account  activity. I say this because:  
-Mrs Ms current account generally  maintained a consistent balance, at the start and 
end of each month, at around £100  to £300;  
-the majority of debits  from the account are also of a similar  amount   between £100  
and £300;
-the account is generally used for direct  debits and day to day spending; and
-there are only two debits on the account  which are over £1,000 
oA £3,600  payment made to an existing payee   paid several times previously
oA £2,704.51 payment to a bank to which Mrs M regularly pays direct debits  
its not clear what this payment is for but its significantly lower than the scam 
payments and doesnt appear  suspicious in any way.
I acknowledge the scam  payments were funded by credits into the account, so the balance  
on the current account isnt impacted by them. But Im persuaded that two payments of 
£4,500 each, totalling £9,000, to a new payee, on consecutive days, do appear to be 
significantly out of character for Mrs M. I think the first payment could be considered as 
unusual but not necessarily suspicious. But I think the second payment on the second  
consecutive day, to a new payee,  is unusual and suspicious, so much so, that I think  
Nationwide ought  to have been concerned  and intervened. 
would intervention have made a difference?
However, and importantly, Im not persuaded that intervention by Nationwide would have 
made a difference in this particular set of circumstances. I say this because  Mrs M said she 
carried out several checks and was satisfied  that everything was genuine with the purchase 
and payments she was making. Mrs M has said: 
-she carried out all the checks possible to ensure the sale was legitimate and says 
she checked every angle  she could;
-she checked companies house  and found  the transport company was registered  and 
therefore believed  it to be genuine;
-she had seen images of the horsebox  and says she received documents about its 
condition; 
-she had carried out her own HPI check with the DVLA and this didnt reveal any 
issues; 
-she and her daughter  didnt express any concerns in the email exchanges with the 
seller; 
-she didnt make arrangements  to see or test drive the horsebox in advance  of paying 
the full amount for it, despite this being  offered  by the seller;
-she was told she would receive  the full-service history and log book  with the 
horsebox on arrival; and
-when the horsebox  didnt  initially arrive,  she was reassured by the seller that it would 
in a few days  time  and I cant see that this caused any suspicions for her either.
Ref: DRN47049994In addition to the above  comments  from Mrs M - the website  used  to locate the horsebox  
was one she had used before and therefore Im satisfied she felt it was at least reasonably  
secure. And on reviewing  the website and its section  on scams it doesnt provide any 
scenarios that would suggest Mrs M ought  to have been cautious of here.
Considering the above  Im not persuaded that a warning or conversation about scams and 
goods not being received  would  have  made  a difference here.  Mrs M even says she carried  
out all the checks  possible to ensure the sale was legitimate.  So I dont think  a warning 
would have caused her to think  that the purchase she was making wasnt  legitimate in 
anyway. I think she was reassured by all the documentation and research she had carried  
out and I think  if she had explained  this to Nationwide  if asked  it too would have been 
reasonably satisfied of Mrs Ms actions  to ensure this wasnt a scam. 
Its possible Nationwide could have advised  her to pay by another  method to ensure better 
protection, but Im not persuaded  that would have  resulted in a different outcome. Its 
possible either the seller  or transport company wouldnt have accepted another payment 
method and if thats the case Im not persuaded Mrs M wouldnt have gone ahead  with the 
purchase if other payment options  werent available. And the payment method used here, in 
itself, isnt enough to persuade me that Mrs M or Nationwide would or ought to have known 
this was a scam. 
In summary  Im currently  not minded to uphold this complaint. I do think  the payments are 
unusual, in particular  the second  payment.  But based on the evidence Ive seen  Im not 
persuaded that a conversation and/or  warning about these types  of scams would have 
resulted in a different outcome, given how reassured  Mrs M was about  the sale.  
If Mrs M has any other evidence, she wishes to provide about the sale or discussions she 
had with the seller,  I will of course consider  this. 
Nationwides actions  in the recovery of the funds
Ive also considered Nationwides actions and the contact it had with the receiving bank 
about the recovery of the funds. As the investigator  set out, there  is inconclusive evidence 
about which date the receiving bank  was in touch with Nationwide,  but Im persuaded it was 
either the 21 or 23 November 2018. But having  reviewed the statements for the recipient 
account Im persuaded that Mrs Ms money had debited the account by 19 November 2018. 
Whilst the records are conflicting and inconclusive, Im not persuaded that Nationwides  
actions contributed any further  to Mrs Ms losses here or that it makes any difference which  
date Nationwide
Mrs Ms response to my provisional thoughts on her complaint
In Summary Mrs M responded to say she was disappointed and frustrated by my provisional 
findings and didnt accept them. In summary she said:
-she had no further evidence because Nationwide didnt contact her;
-she felt let down  by Nationwides lack of communication;
-she doesnt think its acceptable that Nationwide  doesnt have any records of being 
contacted by the receiving bank; and
-Nationwides inaction and complacency contributed  to her losses. 
Ref: DRN47049995On receipt of Mrs Ms responses,  Ive considered  the complaint in full, again, before reaching 
findings. 
My findings
Ive set everything out in my provisional findings  and dont propose to repeat them  here. And 
having considered everything carefully Im not upholding  this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear Mrs M has been the victim  of a scam and has lost this money.  I know this 
cant have been  easy for her, either financially or emotionally. Her responses  dont persuade 
me that I need  to change my findings in this complaint. But I will address the additional 
points she has raised.
I appreciate Mrs M is frustrated by the events that occurred  and that there appears to be 
some uncertainty about the date that the receiving bank were in touch  with Nationwide. 
However, as Ive explained, Im satisfied that didnt contribute to Mrs Ms losses.  Nationwide 
wasnt aware that Mrs M had been  the victim  of a scam until after the money had already 
debited the recipient account. Even if Nationwide had taken further action to contact Mrs M 
on either the 21 or 23 November or acted quicker at this point  it wouldnt  have made a 
difference, her money had already been  moved  on by the scammers. In conclusion I dont 
agree that Nationwides actions or lack of notes around its contact with the receiving bank 
mean that Mrs M should  be refunded.
Mrs M hasnt  commented on any other  parts of my findings, and on review of the evidence  
again, Im not persuaded to change my conclusions from those already set out in my 
provisional findings. 
My final decision  
I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Nationwide.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 October  2020.
Sophia Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4704999