K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) erroneously declined  a claim he 
made under his legal  expenses insurance  policy in 2011. 
As a result of this he says he has suffered losses of approximately £70,000 which  he 
believes AXA should pay him. 
background 
Mr B decided to build his own home in 2008.  In 2009 he took out a self build professional 
fees insurance policy with AXA. In 2010 Mr B contacted AXA to make a claim under the 
policy as issues had arisen with the design  of the building which  had resulted in materials 
being cut and ordered to the wrong  dimensions. Mr B wanted to pursue the third parties 
responsible for these  errors through the courts and wanted to claim for legal fees under his 
policy. 
AXA reviewed Mr Bs claim and in 2011  declined cover as it said that the issues Mr B had 
experienced resulted in a contract agreement between him and the third parties and that 
these contracts pre-dated the inception of the policy.  
Mr B disagreed with AXAs findings  but didnt  pursue  the matter any further at that time. In 
June 2016 Mr B contacted a private  solicitor regarding his claim for costs against  the third 
parties. By this time the building  in question had been completed and sold. Mr B was 
advised by the solicitors  to go back to AXA again  to question its decision to refuse to pay the 
claim. The solicitor advised  Mr B to act quickly as he was close to breaching  the time 
limitations on pursuing costs.
Mr B duly contacted AXA in July 2016  and asked if he could make a claim.  AXA explained 
that since the first attempted claim had been  declined in 2011 it had amended its approach  
to claims involving pre-inception events. It said it would be possible to consider the claim as 
it was satisfied that, although the contract between Mr B and the third parties started before 
the policy did, the event leading to the claim didnt happen until after he had taken out 
insurance. 
AXA then sent Mr Bs claim to its panel  of solicitors to consider. It contacted  the third parties 
and during this time it was discovered that the time limitations for bringing a claim had 
already passed.  So it was unable  to pursue the claim for Mr B. Instead it provided him with 
cover for legal expenses  around the attempted  claim. The matter was finally  concluded in 
early 2018.  
Once the issues surrounding legal  fees for the attempted claim had been finalised Mr B 
brought a complaint to AXA regarding  its initial  decision to refuse his claim in 2011. He said 
that if AXA had accepted  his claim,  as it should have done, he wouldve been able to recover 
his costs in full from the third parties  he believed  were  responsible.  As such he felt the 
underwriter should  cover these costs  for him.
AXA disagreed. It said that it was entitled to refuse the claim in 2011 under the procedures  it 
had in place at the time. It said the change in application of the terms surrounding 
pre-inception claims happened as the result of findings made by this service. It said it had 
behaved appropriately by adhering to recommendations made by our service  but that it 
would be inappropriate  for these to be applied  retrospectively. For that reason it had 
Ref: DRN47647642reconsidered Mr Bs claim in 2016 and despite  agreeing the claim could go ahead, didnt feel 
this indicated it had made an incorrect decision in 2010.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Bs complaint already. She found that AXA were 
wrong to deny his claim in 2011. However  she also felt that Mr B could  have done  more to 
mitigate his losses between 2011  and 2016  when he brought the claim back to the 
underwriter to be reconsidered. She suggested that AXA pay Mr B £300 compensation for 
the trouble and upset it had caused  him but she didnt feel it was appropriate to hold it liable 
for the full £70,000 costs Mr B had been  pursuing  the third parties  for. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators findings. While he accepted  that he should have tried 
to progress the claim sooner than 2016, he still believes  that ultimately AXA were wrong in 
2011 and that error  then cost him dearly. He asked if AXA could pay at least  50% of the 
£70,000 in recognition of the impact  its error  had on him. He also asked for an ombudsman  
to consider his complaint and so it has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed the file and supporting  
evidence in full I agree with the findings  of our investigator for much of the same reasons.  
Mr B has said that he didnt pursue his claim with AXA in 2011 because he didnt realise  he 
could bring it to this service for free and didnt  have the funds to personally pursue the third 
parties through the court without legal  expenses insurance in place. 
I can appreciate how frustrating and difficult a time that must have been  for Mr B. Building  a 
house is an extremely expensive and time consuming project and it is unsurprising  that Mr B 
felt financially constrained at the time.  However it has always been free to bring complaints 
to this service and as Mr B was able to speak  to solicitors as early as 2012  regarding his 
desire to pursue the third parties for costs, Im surprised asking AXA to reconsider the claim, 
or bringing  a complaint to this service to investigate, was never flagged to Mr B as an option.  
Mr B understood that there were time limitations  in place in regards to how long he had to 
pursue his claim against the third parties  through the courts  to mitigate  those claims 
becoming time barred.  And had he returned  to AXA before 2016, it seems likely that AXA 
would have accepted his claim and he would have been able to bring his case  to court for 
consideration. I understand that Mr B feels if it hadnt been for AXA incorrectly  denying his 
claim in 2011 none  of this would have come  to pass as it did. However five years is a long 
time for someone wait before pursuing  a second opinion on a claim they believed was 
incorrectly denied. And I cant say that AXA did anything to cause this delay in getting the 
claim reconsidered. And because I cant say AXA were at fault for the delay, I cant  hold it 
responsible for the time limitation passing  without the claim being  reconsidered.  
I note that when Mr B did ask AXA to reconsider his claim and it decided  to accept it, it tried 
to progress it as quickly  as possible to avoid breaching  any applicable limitation  dates. And it 
provided Mr B with cover for all the legal  costs incurred. This included  the legal costs  of the 
third parties as the claim  was ultimately unsuccessful. In addition  when Mr B brought  his 
complaint to us to consider AXA also agreed  to cover the costs of fees relating  to surveyors  
and solicitors used  to establish the basis of the claim against the third parties. 
Ref: DRN47647643Having reviewed Mr Bs complaint in full I am unable to say that AXA has behaved  
unreasonably or unfairly in regards to his claim. AXA say their decision  to turn down cover  in 
2011 was correct and that subsequent  guidance  from this service meant that they would now 
cover claims arising out of contracts made before cover was in place provided that the 
contracts were for continuing professional services. Im not clear  what  specific  guidance this 
change in approach refers  to as our position has always been that cover should  be provided 
where the insured event arises during the period of insurance. 
However once AXA was asked to reconsider the claim for a second time it agreed it should 
be accepted and pursued the claim as quickly as possible for Mr B. It was extremely  
unfortunate that the time limitations  had been  breached and it wasnt possible  for Mr B to go 
to the courts  to seek a remedy for his losses. 
I understand that Mr B has gone  through  a huge  amount  in regards to the building  of this 
property and that he was caused  distress and inconvenience by AXAs  decision in 2011 to 
refuse his claim. AXA has agreed  to pay Mr B £300  compensation in recognition  of that 
distress and I agree that is a reasonable action to take. However I wont be asking AXA to 
pay all or part of the £70,000  losses Mr B says he incurred as I dont believe it was 
responsible for them. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr Bs complaint  against  AXA Insurance Limited  Plc. 
AXA Insurance Limited Plc must pay:
Mr B £300 for the trouble and upset caused by its denial  of his claim in 2011 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4764764