K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C says Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1989.  They paid a monthly amount for 
the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, and Ill explain why.
Santander had to make  it clear to Mr and Mrs C that the policy  was optional and they had to 
agree to take it. Mr and Mrs C have told us the PPI wasnt explained to them and felt it was 
included as a package with the mortgage. Neither Santander nor Mr and Mrs C have provided 
much of the paperwork from that time, which isnt surprising considering this was almost 30 
years ago. So its difficult to know how the policy was positioned with Mr and Mrs C. In order 
for me to uphold  this Id have  to think that Mr and Mrs Cs account was more  likely than that 
of Santander.  But as these events happened so long ago and as theres  no documentary 
evidence to support  either partys position, I have to conclude that Mr and Mrs Cs account is 
only as likely not more  likely. So on balance I cannot safely conclude that the policy wasnt 
presented as optional or that they werent  given a choice to take PPI.
Santander recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs C and from what  I have  read and been 
told thats probably right. This meant  Santander  had to take reasonable steps  to make sure 
the policy was suitable for them. And it seems  to have been right for them,  based on what 
Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs C were eligible for the cover. And I dont  think  they wouldve been 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover,  for example any unusual 
employment terms or pre-existing medical conditions.  
Mr and Mrs C say they both would have got sick pay from their employers. They said 
Mr C would have had full sick pay benefits  for 12 months and Mrs C would have had 
full sick pay for up to 3 months  if they were off work unwell. Ive carefully 
considered Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances  and I think their mortgage  wouldve been 
an important and a relatively long-term financial commitment for them  and 
importantly, one which was secured  against their home. So I think  the consequences 
of them  not being  able to keep up payments if their income had suddenly dropped, 
could have been serious. 
Ref: DRN42538752This policy would  have paid out for up to 24 months  had they been off work for an 
accident or sickness  this wouldve  been for a longer period than either  of their sick 
pay would  lasted and in addition to any sick pay or other means they had. It would  
have meant  they couldve  kept any sick pay and other means  for other  important 
living expenses, in what I imagine would have  been a difficult  time. 
The policy would also have paid for up to 24 months  if they lost their jobs and this 
wouldve been in addition to any redundancy payment they might have got. So 
overall they couldve found the policy useful.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think the cover was unaffordable  for Mr and 
Mrs C  or that they had a particular need to keep the costs down. And as they were 
paying for the PPI monthly, they could cancel it without further  cost if their situation 
changed or they no longer  wanted  it. 
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think that the policy  was suitable  for Mr and 
Mrs C.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr and Mrs C, Santander also had to give them 
clear enough  information  about  the policy so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But as Ive explained I think  Mr and Mrs C chose the cover and for the 
reasons I mentioned above about why I think the policy  is suitable,  I dont  think  better 
information wouldve  stopped them from buying it.
I know Mr and Mrs C feel strongly, and have put time and effort into their complaint. I realise 
theyll be disappointed  by the outcome. And its difficult  to decide a complaint when I know 
so little about the sale. But on balance,  for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think theyve 
lost out because of anything  Santander mayve done wrong.  
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs C paid on their PPI  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Cs PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Santander has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Cs commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  Santander  treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay Mr and Mrs C back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4253875