K821x#15Complaint
Mrs F says Elevate  Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny)  irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
This complaint is about twelve high-cost short term credit instalment loans that Sunny 
provided to Mrs F from April 2015  onwards. Mrs Fs last loan was provided in September  
2017. Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Fs complaint and thought  she shouldnt have been  
provided with loans 8 to 12. Sunny didnt agree with our adjudicators  assessment. So the 
complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs F could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mrs F, I think  that Sunny should  
reasonably have seen that Mrs F was unlikely to have been able to make her payments in a 
sustainable manner  by the time it provided loan 8. 
I say this because  by this stage  Mrs F exhibited a borrowing pattern of taking out further 
loans not too long after repaying previous ones. And some of them were even provided 
when Mrs F already had an outstanding balance on an existing loan. Indeed loan 8 was 
provided while Mrs F still owed a significant  portion  of the amounts due on loans 5, 6 and 7.
Ref: DRN49245652Sunny continued  lending  to Mrs F even when this pattern was repeated  and in 
circumstances where  it ought reasonably to have  realised  that any further loans  were  more 
likely than not unsustainable for her. I dont  think that the monthly  repayments  being less 
than a certain percentage of Mrs Fs income  or her having repaid these loans means that 
they were sustainable  for her in the first place.
Mrs F had to pay interest and charges on loans that she shouldnt  have been provided with. 
So I think that she lost out because of what Sunny  did wrong and it should put things right.  
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund all interest  and charges Mrs F paid on all loans 8 to 12;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any the number of loans provided  means  that any information  recorded about 
loans to 8 to 12 on Mrs Fs credit file is likely  to be adverse. So all reference to these  
loans should be removed from Mrs Fs credit file;
if, after all interest and charges adjustments are made, an outstanding balance remains  
on loans 10, 11 or 12, Sunny can deduct this from the compensation  that it now needs 
to pay Mrs F. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Fs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Mrs F compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4924565