K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2010. Mrs D says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ds 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So, I havent repeated all of this information here. 
Except to say that Mrs D is recorded as being  in good health  at the point of sale by 
Santander. In bringing her complaint  to us Mrs D told us she had a medical condition at the 
time of the sale. Because of the differing accounts  we asked Mrs D to clarify matters by 
providing some evidence about the condition. At the time of writing no such evidence  has 
been received.  
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Ds representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ds. I havent set out that detailed  information 
here, but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations  in deciding Mrs Ds complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Santander made it clear that Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out. I say this because the mortgage started many years before Mrs D took out 
the cover  as a standalone policy. And the documentation from the time of the sale 
describes the cover  as optional.
Santander didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs D - so it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs D enough clear and timely  
information so she could decide  for herself if it was right for her.
Ref: DRN48209522Its possible the information Santander gave  Mrs D about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mrs D  for example  she 
wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover  Mrs D was 
employed and Ive seen insufficient  evidence to think she had a pre-existing medical  
condition that would  have put her off the policy. And the cover would have paid out in 
addition to her sick pay and for longer  than her employer would have paid her at her full 
rate of pay. And Mrs D told us she had no other means she could have  relied on in the 
event she couldnt work through ill health,  or if she lost her job. And the cover wasnt too 
dissimilar to what she reasonably thought  she was buying from the information she was 
given. There were  also no additional  restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs D would have declined 
the cover  had Santander done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs D would  have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting  and I think  the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ds representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Santander  should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained  the significance of the limitations  and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mrs Ds representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ds individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ds particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means  Santander  doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
However, having considered the overall mis-sale, I must now go on to consider whether the 
non-disclosure of commission  resulted  in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what compensation  it would be fair to award to Mrs D to 
remedy that unfairness.
Ive considered the effect of section  140A  and B of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme 
Court decision  in Plevin v Paragon and the FCAs rules and guidance for businesses about 
handling PPI complaints  set out at DISP App 3 in the light of that case.
Having done so, I think the Plevin  judgment  does not apply in the circumstances of this case. 
I say that because the judgment was about what a lender should do in some  circumstances  
where the mortgage taken out was not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. But 
Ref: DRN48209523Santander has told us, and provided  screenshots  to support, that Mrs Ds mortgage became 
a regulated mortgage before the sale.
  
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mrs Ds complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October  2021.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4820952