K820x#14Complaint
Miss W has complained about the automatic inclusion of child critical illness  cover in a life 
protection policy she took out, administered by BISL  Limited.
Background
In February 2019  Miss W took out a life insurance policy via a comparison  website.  No 
advice was provided. The policy provided life and critical illness cover.  It also provided child 
critical illness cover and this is the part of the policy Miss W has complained about. She says 
she didnt ask for this to be included in her policy.
Miss W has said that when she spoke to BISL  about this it wasnt  able to help her nor would  
it just remove the child critical illness cover. The only option  she was presented with was to 
cancel the life and critical  illness cover  and apply for a new one. Miss W has said this wasnt  
acceptable. She has also complained that she was told the child critical  illness cover would 
only cost her a few pence extra. Shes also said that the telephone adviser asked her 
unnecessary questions in relation to children  and her personal situation and she felt he 
overstepped the mark with his line and tone of questioning.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who didnt feel it could be upheld. 
She found the child critical illness cover was automatically included in the adult critical illness 
cover and Miss W was not charged extra for this. She also listened  to the phone calls that 
took place between Miss W and BISL and she didnt feel that the adviser had been rude nor 
had he overstepped his boundaries.  She therefore  felt that BISL  didnt have to do anything  
further.
Miss W didnt agree  and remained  of the view BISL  had done something  wrong.  She felt that 
BISL should have been able to explain all the policy benefits and charges in full before she 
had taken the policy. She also didnt accept that she wasnt  being charged extra. And she 
didnt agree with the investigators  assessment that the telephone adviser wasnt rude. 
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I know  this will 
disappoint Miss W, I dont think the complaint can be upheld.
Having looked  at everything provided by BISL I am satisfied that the child critical illness 
cover was something that was automatically  added  onto the life policy  if the option for adult 
critical illness cover was chosen. I appreciate why Miss W wouldnt want  this but as an 
automatically added benefit which actually forms part of the policy  I can also understand  why 
BISL cant remove it from the policy. It seems that the way the online application form was 
set up on the comparison  website is what enabled  the child critical illness  cover to be 
automatically included.  But that obviously isnt the responsibility of BISL.
The only options  BISL was able to present  to Miss W was to keep the policy  or to cancel it 
and apply for a different one directly  with it which wouldnt automatically include child critical 
illness cover.  But As Miss W wanted  to use the promotion from the comparison website she 
was unwilling to do that.
Ref: DRN45528082I know Miss W was told in an initial  telephone  call with BISL that she would only be paying a 
few extra pennies for the additional  cover, but from the information I have I dont think  this 
is the case. And this was in fact clarified  and corrected in another telephone call between  
Miss W and BISL a few days  later. BISL  has confirmed that no extra charges were taken for 
the additional cover and I have seen the screen shot which  details all the charges being 
applied to Miss W for the policy  and there is no detailed charge for the child critical illness  
protection addition.  As I have no reason to doubt what I have been  told by BISL  Im therefore 
satisfied that no extra charges were  made  for the additional  cover.
Its also important for Miss W to note that as this Service isnt the regulator  we cant tell a 
business to change its business  practices or the way it advertises or presents whatever it 
may be selling  or advising on. In this case, only if extra charges were  being applied for 
something that was automatically added would this Service  be able to make BISL alter or 
amend a policy or force it to remove something. But as Ive already said, this isnt the case  
here so I cant ask BISL to do anything.
With regards to the information  that was provided  to Miss W when she queried the additional 
benefit, I agree she was told incorrect information  about the cost of the child critical illness 
cover, as mentioned above. I also understand why this would lead Miss W to mistrust any 
further information from BISL.  However,  as already stated above, I am satisfied that no extra 
charges have been applied for the additional  benefit.  And while it is disappointing that the 
wrong information was initially given to Miss W, I am pleased to see that in a telephone call a 
few days later it was confirmed that the additional  benefit incurred no extra charges. 
Turning now to the questioning and the tone of the conversation between Miss W and the 
telephone adviser,  regarding  the additional benefit and children. I appreciate Miss Ws 
sensitivities around  this issue but having listened  to the calls its reasonable that the adviser 
wasnt to know about that. Miss W didnt  mention  this and actually laughed and joked with 
the adviser about this issue throughout the call. So I dont think  the adviser overstepped the 
mark or offended Miss W. I think he simply did what he had to, and that was to provide  
Miss W with information about  the possible benefits  of the policy if she chose  to keep the 
policy in place. The adviser also did say before broaching the issue  of children that he didnt 
mean to sound  rude or nosey, so I think he was aware of generally the delicate nature of 
such issues. 
Overall, having listened  to the calls that took place in the course  of making  this decision, in 
my view full information was given to Miss W and her options were clearly  set out to her with 
reasons why those  options were the only ones available.  I dont think  BISL could have  done  
more within  what was actually in its capability.  The fact those options were  not satisfactory 
for Miss W doesnt mean BISL  made an error or needs to put something right.
Therefore, I fully understand why Miss W has complained about  the additional benefit being  
automatically added onto her policy and appreciate why she is frustrated that it simply just 
cant be removed. But from what I have seen,  I think this is down  to the comparison website 
that Miss W used to facilitate her taking this policy. BISL in my view looked  into the issue  
fully and provided Miss W with ways  of rectifying the situation.  While they werent  agreeable 
to Miss W I think this is all BISL  could have done  and it isnt unreasonable that the additional 
benefit just cant  be removed. As BISL  hasnt done  anything wrong I cant  ask it to do 
anything else. I also think BISL  corrected the wrong information given within a few days of 
giving it so the impact  of this on Miss W was minimal and I cant agree that the telephone  
Ref: DRN45528083adviser who asked  questions about her plans for children in the future was rude or offended 
her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October  2019.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4552808