K820x#14complaint
Mrs T has complained about the decision by Society  of Lloyds (SoL) to decline  her claim 
and void her caravan  insurance policy after the caravan suffered damage in a storm.
background
In April 2018, Mrs T took out the policy to provide cover for her caravan.
In October  2018, Mrs T made a claim to SoL after her caravan suffered storm damage. SoL 
arranged for its loss adjuster to visit the site. The loss adjuster  noted the damage  and later 
authorised Mrs T to appoint a contractor to carry out repairs  for a cost of £6,335. However,  
due to a delay in the repair works  starting, the caravan suffered further damage.  Mrs T 
asked SoL to cover this also.
While SoL was assessing the further damage, SoL noted that at the time of her application 
for the policy, Mrs T had an active County  Court Judgement (CCJ)  and Individual  Voluntary 
Agreement (IVA). It considered she should have  disclosed  these in response to questions 
she was asked during  her application. It said that if she had done so, it wouldnt have agreed 
to offer her a policy.  In light of this, it informed Mrs T that it would be declining  her claim and 
voiding her policy.
Mrs T was unhappy at SoLs decision. She complained to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that it had been fair for SoL to void the policy. He was also satisfied that SoL couldnt 
reasonably be held responsible for any further damage which occurred to the caravan as a 
result of the repair work not being carried out sooner.
Mrs T didnt  accept the investigators findings.  She maintained it was the fault of SoL that 
repairs werent started in time to prevent further  damage occurring to her caravan.  She 
considered that SoL should  at least be liable for covering the cost of that further damage.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
When she took out the policy, Mrs T was asked a series of questions over the telephone by 
SoL. These included a question as to whether she or her partner had any outstanding CCJs 
against them. I am satisfied this was a clear question. Mrs T answered  no. However, SoL 
later discovered that Mrs T had a CCJ made against her in 2015 and that this was still 
outstanding at the time of her application. Im satisfied  that Mrs T should therefore have 
answered yes to this question.
SoL has provided underwriting evidence which shows  that if Mrs T had answered  the 
question correctly, it wouldnt have  agreed to offer her the policy.  The Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosure and Misrepresentations) Act 2012  provides that, in situations such as this, the 
insurer is entitled to void the policy. Im therefore satisfied that it was reasonable for SoL to 
Ref: DRN48574602take this action. SoL decided that Mrs Ts incorrect answer  was careless on her part, rather 
than deliberate or reckless, and it therefore agreed  to refund her premium. I consider  this 
was fair.  
Mrs T has pointed out that SoL undertook a credit check  on her before it offered the policy. 
She considers it should have known about the CCJ from this check. However, SoL has 
confirmed that the credit  check was a very basic one to confirm Mrs Ts ability  to pay the 
policys premium and her CCJ wasnt uncovered at that time. Im satisfied this was the case  
and I consider the fact SoL said it was undertaking a credit check didnt remove Mrs Ts 
obligation to answer the application  questions correctly.
With regard to whose  responsibility it was to ensure repairs  were carried out on the caravan 
in a timely manner, I note that SoLs loss adjuster visited the site on 24 October 2018. The 
loss adjusters report said that Mrs T had arranged for a local contractor to provide a report 
and estimate of the repair costs. The local contractor  visited the site on the same  day as the 
loss adjuster and provided its report and estimate  to the loss adjuster on 25 October 2018. It 
estimated the cost of repair to be £6,335. On 1 November 2018, having  satisfied itself that 
the estimate was reasonable, the loss adjuster authorised Mrs T to appoint  the contractor  to 
carry out the repairs. Im satisfied from this that SoL and its loss adjuster were reasonably 
prompt in dealing with matters.
On 13 November 2018, Mrs T contacted SoL to say the repair work still hadnt started and 
that further damage had now occurred. She later obtained a report from a structural engineer  
which concluded that the further damage was due to the initial repairs not having been 
undertaken.
I consider the evidence  indicates that the contractor had been arranged by Mrs T rather  than 
by SoL. Mrs T disputes this and has provided a document she received from SoL which  
refers to its national panel of approved specialists and suppliers. She considers that this 
supports that the contractor was appointed by SoL. However, the document  she has 
provided simply sates that SoL may  use one of its approved specialists;  it doesnt  say that 
it will always  do this. SoL has confirmed that the contractor in this case  wasnt on its 
approved list. This document therefore  doesnt persuade me that SoL, rather than Mrs T, 
was responsible for appointing the contractor.
It isnt clear if the further damage happened  before  or after 1 November 2018. But if there  
was a need for emergency repairs to protect the caravan against further damage, I would 
have expected her contractor to have flagged that up to Mrs T when it carried  out its initial  
inspection. As it is, its report made  no mention of any such work being necessary. I dont 
consider that I can reasonably hold SoL responsible for any failure of Mrs T to mitigate  her 
losses by arranging essential repairs while she was waiting for it to validate the estimate for 
repair. And once cover  had been  confirmed on 1 November 2018,  any delay in repair work 
being carried out thereafter is a matter between Mrs T and her contractor;  it isnt the fault of 
SoL.
I therefore consider  that SoL cannot reasonably be held liable for any additional  damage  
which occurred to Mrs Ts caravan  following her initial claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN48574603Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020..
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4857460