K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained about the way in which AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has increased 
the cost of his private medical  insurance  policy.
background
Mr R held a private medical  insurance  policy with AXA PPP. When the policy  renewed  in 
January 2017,  the annual premium was £5,905.
Before the policy was next due to renew in January 2018, AXA PPP wrote to Mr R to explain 
that it was withdrawing  the policy in question. It invited Mr R to switch  instead to an 
alternative policy which offered broadly similar  benefits. Unlike the old policy, however, the 
new policy featured a no claims  discount  (NCD)  scheme. AXA PPP offered to renew Mr Rs 
cover under the new policy  for a premium of £6,440. Mr R accepted  this offer.
When the new policy was due to renew  in January 2019, Mr R found the premium had 
increased by 40% to £9,028. He questioned  AXA PPP about this. AXA PPP explained  the 
reasons for the increase, which included that Mr R had made a claim which caused his level 
of NCD to decrease.
Mr R complained. He said he hadnt asked for an NCD to be introduced on his policy  and 
hadnt been made aware that this had been done.  He considered  the price  increase to be 
excessive and wanted his premium to be reduced.
AXA PPP didnt uphold his complaint. It said it had made him aware of the introduction of the 
NCD. It was satisfied it had calculated his premium accurately  and fairly.    
Mr R was unhappy at AXA PPPs response. He referred his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In his opinion, AXA 
PPP had acted fairly.
Mr R didnt accept the adjudicators findings. The matter has therefore  been referred to me 
for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
AXA PPP took the commercial decision to stop offering the particular policy  which Mr R held. 
It was entitled to take this decision.  It was an annually  renewable  policy and there  was 
nothing in the policy terms which obliged AXA PPP to continue  offering the cover for as long 
as Mr R wanted it.
AXA PPP nonetheless invited Mr R to switch to another,  comparable  policy. Im satisfied this 
was fair. It sent Mr R an information  pack,  including a booklet which highlighted the key 
differences between  his old policy and the new policy. This booklet explained that the new 
policy incorporated an NCD scheme  which offered a scale  of discounts  ranging from 0% to 
80%. The pack also included a membership booklet which explained how the NCD scheme 
Ref: DRN47874312worked. And it included  Mr Rs membership certificate which confirmed  that he had been 
placed on a 70% discount  and that his premium was £6,440.  Im satisfied that Mr R was 
provided with enough  information  to make an informed decision as to whether to accept the 
switch to the new policy. If he hadnt  wanted  to accept this, Mr R could have chosen to either 
seek cover  from another provider or to forgo  private medical cover.  He chose, however, to 
accept AXA PPPs offer.
Mr R has said he thinks the price rise at the January 2019 renewal was excessive. I should  
explain to Mr R that we generally take the view it is up to an insurer  to decide  how much to 
charge for its policies.  Provided it exercises this judgement fairly and consistently, in 
accordance with its internal guidelines, it is a matter in which  we wouldnt normally interfere.
AXA PPP has explained  to Mr R the reasons for the increase. In particular,  it pointed  out that 
because he made  a claim, his NCD decreased from 70% to 59.5%. This actually had the 
effect of increasing  Mr Rs premium by 35% (because he went  from paying 30% of the base 
premium to 40.5%). This was therefore  the main factor in the overall rise in his premium. I 
have checked  the information provided  by AXA PPP and Im satisfied  that it calculated  his 
premium fairly and accurately. I sympathise with Mr R that the cost of his cover has 
increased by such an extent but I cant reasonably  tell AXA PPP that it must charge him 
less.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4787431