K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited  (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David  Securities Limited) to transfer his pension  to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 1 March 2021. The background and 
circumstances of the case and the reasons why I was minded to uphold  it were set out in 
that decision. A copy is attached and it forms part of this final decision.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence  or arguments that they wanted  me to 
consider. 
Mr Ps representative said it had nothing further to add.
Alexander David Securities Limited  didnt provide any further submissions. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen no reason to 
depart from the findings set out in my provisional  decision  to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint.
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr P as set 
out in my attached provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2021.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN44788212Copy of Provisional  Decision
complaint
Mr P has complained about the advice he was given  by St Pauls  Marketing Limited (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David Securities Limited) to transfer his pension  to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
The background  to the complaint was set out by the investigator in her assessment. In summary, she 
explained that Mr P was cold called by St Pauls Marketing in July 2016 offering  a pension review 
which he accepted.
The investigator said Mr P spoke to St Pauls Marketings  representative on the phone. Mr P said he 
was sent papers to sign and return  through the post.
St Pauls  Marketing sent a letter to Mr P dated 18 July 2016.  It included:
The reason that we promote the idea of a pension summary is to highlight  to you that you might 
potentially consider  investing into our corporate client, Just Finance  Loan.  debenture bond (a loan 
from you to Just Finance),  through your pension if your pension fund isn't achieving say 8.25% pa. 
People are able to invest into the Just Finance  debenture bond by way of a Self-Invested Pension 
Plan ('SIPP'),  and in due course we can introduce you to a SIPP provider if you would like us to.
Mr P said that St Pauls Marketing told him that the new investment was likely to give him a better rate 
of return  than his existing plans.
Mr P had two personal  pension plans and their combined value was approximately £84,000 in August 
2016. Both plans were  invested in a managed fund.
On 3 August 2016 St Pauls Marketing sent Mr P a letter  providing a pension summary. It showed  how 
the pension had performed  in the last three years. The letter further said Our interest is to promote 
awareness and show you the 8.25% fixed return secured debenture of our corporate client.
An application to open  a SIPP was signed on 11 August  2016. Mr Ps plans were  transferred to it and 
subsequently a stockbroker  account was opened and £82,801 was transferred to it in September 
2016. The majority of the money was invested in the Just Loans debentures.
Mr Ps representative says they complained to Alexander  David in November  2019. I understand 
Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the complaint.  The representative subsequently 
referred it to us. Our investigator asked Alexander David  for its files and to provide  any other evidence  
it wanted us to take into account. However,  no files or evidence or arguments were  received.
The investigator noted  Mr P had said St Pauls Marketing had compared  his existing pension  plans 
with the prospective  investment and said the new investment was performing much better. The 
investigator said in reviewing the returns of the two schemes it was always likely to show that one 
investment was 'better' than the other. She said it was difficult  to imagine a discussion about  two 
competing investments  without St Pauls Marketing recommending that the better  performing one be 
taken.
The investigator said Mr P had said this was what had happened. The investments were specific to 
Mr P, because it involved  looking at the performance of his plans in relation to his objectives. The 
investigator thought St Pauls  Marketing had made a personal recommendation  to Mr P. And she 
didnt think that Mr P had the background and knowledge to have arranged  the transfer and invested 
in these investments himself.
Ref: DRN44788213The investigator noted  the investment was issued by a single company. She understood it was 
concerned entirely with peer to peer lending  and was first incorporated in December 2014.  When St 
Pauls Marketing approached  Mr P it had only been in existence for about eighteen months. She said 
it was a new company in a fledgling industry, and Mr Ps entire  retirement provision  had been 
invested into it. 
The investigator said Mr P was a relatively inexperienced investor.  The pension transferred  was his 
only pension and he was about eight years from retirement. Mr P had around £2,000 in cash savings 
and held some shares under  his company sharesave scheme. The investigator thought the 
investment was speculative and unsuitable for Mr P given his circumstances. She didnt think  he 
would have been willing to accept the risks the investment presented. The investigator said she 
thought that the complaint  should be upheld.
The investigator sent her assessment of the complaint  to Alexander David.  However, it didnt provide  
a response. The investigator subsequently wrote to both parties on 8 December  2020 explaining  that 
she thought the compensation she had recommended in her assessment should  be amended given 
that Mr P had indicated he was cautious investor. The investigator set out what she thought  was fair 
compensation in the circumstances.  The investigator said she was passing the complaint to an 
ombudsman to make  a final decision. She asked both parties to provide any further  evidence or 
arguments that they wanted to be considered. No further evidence or arguments were presented.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Alexander David didnt respond  to Mr Ps original complaint or to the investigators requests for 
information. It didnt provide any further evidence or arguments in response to the investigators 
assessment. So theres only very limited evidence  available to establish  what  happened at the time of 
the transfer and investment.  
Ive carefully considered the evidence that is available,  including Mr Ps recollections of events. Im 
also mindful that this is one of a number of complaints  we have received and which I have seen 
against St Pauls Marketing Limited; all of a similar nature,  involving  seemingly similar circumstances  
and the same  investments. What Mr P has said about St Pauls  Marketings role in the matter is 
consistent with what other complainants have described. So I think  what  he has said is plausible. And 
taking everything into account,  I have found it credible.  
Im satisfied, on the balance of the evidence  that is available, that St Pauls Marketing was involved 
from the outset and following  its input Mr P transferred  his pension to the SIPP and invested in the 
debentures. In my experience its unusual  for someone of Mr Ps background  and experience to want  
to transfer an existing  pension  in order to invest in this type of investment without  prompting. I think it 
was unlikely to have happened without  the involvement  of St Pauls  Marketing. Im satisfied that it 
initiated the transfer  and investment in the debentures. It was aware of where the investment was 
going to be made and facilitated it. 
The investigator thought St Pauls Marketing had made a personal recommendation to Mr P. And she 
didnt think that Mr P had the background and knowledge to have arranged  the transfer and invested 
in these investments himself. The firm hasnt disputed this. In all the circumstances and on the 
balance of the limited evidence that is available, I think its more  likely than not that St Pauls 
Marketing did advise Mr P to transfer and invest in the debentures. And given the significant risks 
presented by the investment, I dont think it was suitable  for Mr P in his circumstances, particularly 
given he has said that he is mostly cautious and his risk profile is more suited to low risk investments.
However, even if St Pauls Marketing didnt give advice to Mr P I think the evidence  shows it was 
involved in arranging the transaction. It was the promoter for the debentures,  but Im satisfied, on the 
Ref: DRN44788214limited evidence available, that it went beyond just promoting it and was involved in arranging the 
investment. 
My understanding is that the debentures were a non-readily realisable security.  Conduct of Business  
Rule (COBS) 10 said:
This chapter applies to a firm which  arranges or deals  in relation to a non-readily realisable security, 
derivative or a warrant with or for a retail client and the firm is aware, or ought  reasonably  to be 
aware, that the application  or order is in response to a direct offer financial promotion.
COBS 10 required St Pauls Marketing to assess  Mr Ps knowledge and experience in the investment 
field relevant  to the specific type of product or service offered or demand so that it could assess 
whether the debentures  were appropriate for him.
The investigator said Mr P had no significant investment  knowledge or experience of making  
investments of this nature and Alexander  David hasnt disputed this. And Ive seen no evidence of Mr 
P having a history of making this type of investment.  
The debentures  presented significant risks and were speculative.  In my view they werent  appropriate 
for Mr P given  his background,  knowledge and experience and this should  have been clear  to St 
Pauls Marketing.
Taking all the circumstances  of the transaction into account, I think  it was clear that the debentures 
werent suitable  or appropriate for Mr P. I also dont think the firm treated Mr P fairly  or acted in his 
best interests as required  by the FCAs Principles and COBS  2.1.1. Im satisfied that if St Pauls  
Marketing hadnt advised  Mr P to transfer and invest in the debentures or if it had told him they 
werent suitable  or appropriate for him, he wouldnt  have transferred and invested in them.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls Marketings failures caused Mr P to transfer and invest in a 
product that he would  otherwise not have  invested  into. Im satisfied its failures  caused the losses that 
Mr P has claimed.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. 
I intend  to order Alexander David Securities  Limited to calculate  and pay compensation to Mr P on the 
following basis. 
fair compensation  
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr P as close as possible to the 
position he would probably now be in if he had been  given suitable advice. Mr Ps existing pension 
was invested in funds that provided  a greater degree of risk than Mr P has indicated he was willing to 
take or were suitable for his circumstances. I think with suitable  advice Mr P would have remained in 
his existing pension scheme, but switched  to an appropriate fund. So I think Mr P would have 
invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  what he would have done, but I am satisfied that 
what I have set out below is fair and reasonable  given  Mr Ps circumstances  and objectives  when he 
invested. 
what should Alexander David do? 
To compensate Mr P fairly  Alexander  David  Ltd should compare the performance of Mr Ps 
investment with that of the benchmark shown below.  If the fair value is greater than the actual value, 
there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value,  no 
compensation is payable. 
Ref: DRN44788215Alexander David Securities Ltd should  also pay any interest as set out below. 
If there  is a loss, Alexander David Securities Ltd should  pay into Mr Ps pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The payment should  allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Alexander  David Securities Ltd shouldnt pay the compensation  
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable  to pay the compensation into Mr Ps pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should  be calculated  using 
Mr Ps actual or expected  marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
I think  Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement age, so the reduction should  
equal the current basic rate of tax. However,  if Mr P would  have been able to take a tax-free lump 
sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
investment  
name status Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end  
date)additional interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate  of 
transferDate  of 
reinvest
ment  - 
25 
January 
2019The same  benchmark on 
the loss calculated as at 
25 January 2019 to 
decision date. Then 8% 
simple a
year from date
of decision  to
date of
settlement if
settlement  isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified  of
Mr Ps 
acceptance of
this decision
In addition, Alexander David should: 
Pay Mr P £100 for the distress and inconvenience  Im satisfied the matter has caused him. 
Provide details of the calculation to Mr P in a clear, simple format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David  Securities Ltd considers  
that it is required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it 
should tell Mr P how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.  
Actual value 
This means  the actual  transfer  value of the SIPP at the end date (the date of re-investment).
Ref: DRN44788216Fair value 
This is what the sum transferred from the pension provider, plus any charges  incurred  within the plan 
on transfer, would have been worth at the end date had they grown in line with the benchmark. 
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value  calculation from the point in 
time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal,  income or other distribution  out of the SIPP  should 
be deducted from the fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases  to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
Mr P circumstances were  consistent with someone who only had limited  capacity for risk. And in his 
complaint Mr P has said he was a cautious investor. 
In all the circumstances, I dont think Mr P would have transferred with suitable advice. But he was 
invested in funds presenting  a greater degree of risk than the cautious  level of risk he says he was 
prepared to accept. So I think its likely  he would have switched to lower risk funds if suitable advice  
had been given. I dont  know exactly how he would have invested but I think  the index I have outlined 
above is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable proxy for the lower level of risk that Mr P was 
willing and able to take. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  for someone who wanted 
to achieve a reasonable  return  without risk to their capital. 
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Ps risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was only prepared  to take a 
limited level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably  
put Mr P into that position. 
It doesnt  mean that Mr P would  have  invested  50% in some  kind of index tracker investment. Rather  I 
consider this is a reasonable  compromise that broadly  reflects the sort of return Mr P could have  
obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude. 
The investigator recommended  that fair compensation be calculated as at 25 January 2019; the date 
that Mr P decided to reinvest into the Just Loans Debentures. I think this is fair given Mr P had made 
his decision to reinvest his money having already raised  concerns about the suitability  of the original 
advice to invest.  In the circumstances  I dont think Alexander David is responsible for any losses 
arising from the re-investment. 
And although Mr P may have suffered a degree of distress when the complaint was made and the 
return provided on the debentures was uncertain, this would likely have been for a limited period  
given he agreed to reinvest in the debentures when they matured in December  2018.  So I think  £100 
is fair in the particular  circumstances.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4478821