K821x#15Complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Legal and General Assurance  Society Limiteds (L&G) decision to 
decline his claim made  on an income protection insurance policy  held by his former 
employer.
Background
Mr S went  absent from work  with stress-related anxiety and depression in February 2018. 
He remained off work until November 2018.  
Mr S made a claim with L&G for benefits to be paid under his employers group income 
protection insurance policy. To qualify, he had to be incapacitated, as defined in the policy  
terms, throughout the deferred period of 26 weeks and beyond. 
L&G declined the claim as it didnt consider Mr S met the policy  definition  of incapacity. It 
said, among other things,  that his absence  was primarily due to the need for him to care for 
his seriously ill wife rather than his own incapacity. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and recommended  the complaint be upheld. 
They didnt think L&G had acted fairly in declining the claim. 
L&G didnt agree with the adjudicator  and provided  further comments on the available  
evidence. The adjudicators opinion remained unchanged, so the case  was passed to me to 
review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point  for me was to consider  the definition of incapacity that applied to Mr S 
claim. It required  that he be:
 incapacitated by illness or injury which prevents him from performing the essential 
duties of his occupation immediately before the start of the deferred  period.
So, any successful claim would require,  among  other  things, medical evidence  to show  the 
claimant couldnt continue in their occupation.
There are essentially three main pieces of medical evidence from the time of Mr S absence. 
The earliest was from an occupational health  manager (OHM)  instructed by his former 
employer, and dated September 2018. The OHM  said Mr S had suffered with impaired focus  
and concentration,  poor sleep and diminished  stamina and resilience.
The OHM said Mr S had been referred  for counselling  and continued to be signed off by his 
GP. Although his symptoms were improving in tandem with his wifes recovery, in the OHMs 
opinion Mr S was not yet fit for work.
Ref: DRN48486582Next came a letter from Mr S primary treating GP dated October 2018. The GP confirmed  
he was having  counselling for anxiety and depression and that he wasnt  in a position to 
return to work due to the concentration and focus  his occupation required. The GP said 
although Mr S wasnt yet in a position  to return to work it was hoped  hed be able to do so by 
the end of that year with the aid of counselling.
Finally, theres a letter from another of Mr S GPs, dated November 2018. In it, the GP 
confirmed Mr S had been unable  to work  between  February and November 2018. They said 
Mr S opted  for counselling ahead of medication but that his condition improved as a result of 
his treatment.
Ive thought carefully about the medical  evidence in this case and Im satisfied it shows that 
Mr S was incapacitated,  as per the policy terms, throughout the deferred period and beyond. 
In my view, L&G hasnt presented any persuasive  medical evidence of its own to show 
otherwise.
Instead, L&G argues  Mr S absence was somehow due to the need for him to care for his 
wife. No doubt he did care for his family during what must have been a very difficult  time  
and the evidence from the medical  professionals mentioned above says as much.  But that 
doesnt mean his absence  didnt  also have a medical basis. The evidence  explains the clear  
link between  his wifes  illness and the onset of his own. But I think  Mr S set out the situation 
accurately and succinctly in his email to us of May 2019:
I dont believe its relevant what the triggers for my anxiety and depression  were, 
only that I was suffering  with these conditions to an extent that they prevented  me 
from discharging my duty        
L&G also mentions that Mr S had asked his then employer  for compassionate leave 
immediately after his wife fell ill and suggests this somehow meant he wasnt truly 
incapacitated himself. I see nothing to support L&Gs  conclusions  here and note his 
explanation that his request was instigated by the occupational health  provider. 
Taking everything into account,  I find that L&Gs decision to decline the claim was unfair.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold this complaint. I require Legal  & General Assurance Limited 
to:
accept that Mr S was incapacitated under the terms of the policy  from the time he 
stopped working  and pay benefits according to, and in line with, the policys 
remaining terms and conditions; 
add interest to these  payments at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated  from the 
date each payment  was due until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4848658