K821x#15complaint
Ms D has complained that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) unreasonably refused  to pay 
her cancellation  claim  under her travel insurance policy.
background
Ms D was due to go on holiday abroad  from 17 to 24 March 2018.  On 8 March,  she attended 
her GP and needed  to have some tests done.  Her GP consequently advised her not to 
travel. 
She made a claim to IPA for the cancellation of her holiday. It refused to pay it as it said she 
had failed to disclose her medical history when buying her policy. And it said if she had 
disclosed her medical  history, the policy wouldnt have been offered to her.
Ms D brought her complaint to us. The adjudicator thought it should be upheld. However, 
IPA didnt agree and so Ms Ds complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done Im upholding this complaint 
and Ill now explain why.
Ms D bought her policy on 4 February 2018. The application process asks for Ms D to 
disclose her pre-existing medical conditions. Ms D didnt believe she had any, so she didnt 
click some  underlined  text saying please confirm youve read this important information.
Within this link on the underlined text, there were more health questions. The only one, 
which might  have been relevant to Ms D at the time of her application, was the following:
Within the last 5 years  have you or anyone you wish to insure on this policy  suffered 
any medical condition  that has required prescribed medication and/or treatment 
including surgery, tests  or investigations?
Ms D suffered a stress incidence in January  2017,  which was over a year previously.  It also 
resolved and had not reoccurred before  Ms D bought her policy.  She also suffered acute 
bronchitis earlier in January 2017,  so again a year earlier, which again resolved. So at the 
time Ms D bought  her policy, she wasnt suffering any health issues  at all and this has been 
confirmed by her GP.
So the issue  for me to consider is whether or not it was reasonable for Ms D to think  properly 
resolved relatively  minor health issues  (which resolved over a year earlier),  could  be classed 
as a pre-existing  medical condition, which she ought to have  disclosed.  Or which  would 
have then urged her to click on the underlined text, which explains more fully the time-period 
for which any medical condition needs  to be disclosed. 
Practically speaking if this question  wasnt hidden behind such a link, the application process 
would have been a lot clearer  for Ms D and indeed IPA. And further,  if it were  impossible to 
buy the policy without  having answered the questions behind  link, then this situation  for Ms 
D would  have simply not incurred. The adjudicator explained she tested the process herself 
and was capable  of buying  a policy without answering the questions, just like Ms D was.
Ref: DRN47312552The problem as I see it is what the normal ordinary consumer would consider a pre-existing 
medical condition.  As thats what IPAs application  initially asks about. And its only if you as 
a consumer think you have such a condition are you then urged in my view,  to click on the 
underlined text to only then see the further health  questions.
Given Ms D medical history shows she suffered no medical conditions for over a year, I dont  
consider it unreasonable for her to conclude that meant she didnt have any medical 
condition that was of any concern to anyone  including herself.  There was nothing  on going, 
there was no monitoring  of either issue, there  was nothing wrong  with her that her GP 
needed to treat, monitor or re-assess. She had no chronic illness  that could flare up from 
time to time. So in my view, there was nothing for her consider she had any medical 
condition at all, pre-existing or otherwise. 
Therefore, Im of the view in the particular circumstances of this complaint, its not fair and 
reasonable for IPA to decline Ms Ds claim.  Consequently, I consider IPA should now assess 
Ms Ds claim  subject  to the remaining policy terms and condition  with a view to paying it. 
Adding interest of 8% simple per year from the date her claim was made to the date it pays 
her.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Inter Partner Assistance SA to do the following:
Assess Ms Ds cancellation under  the remaining policy terms and conditions  with a 
view to paying it.
Add interest of 8% simple per year from the date of Ms Ds claim to the date of its 
payment to her. *
*If Inter Partner Assistance SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Ms D how much  its taken off. It should 
also give her a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 June  2019
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4731255