K820x#14complaint
Ms N says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of FICL. I cant consider this complaint 
against the seller  of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, 
or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services  Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or were otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  
than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Ms N bought the policy in 2000  at the same time as taking out a store card.  She applied  for 
the store card and PPI policy in store. 
At the time,  Ms N was employed full time and she has told us she was entitled to six months 
full pay followed by six months half pay employee  benefits if she was too unwell to work.  
She also says she would have been entitled  to redundancy pay. Ms N has said she was in 
good health at the time of the sale.  
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, unemployment, hospitalisation and life  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 15% of Ms Ns store  card balance 
in the event of Ms N being unable to work  due to accident, sickness and unemployment. 
The policy also provided purchase and price protection for any products bought using the 
card. Ms N hasnt complained about this element of the insurance policy  so I will not 
consider it further  in this decision. But I will assume the full cost of the policy to PPI to put Ms 
N in the most favourable position.
At the time,  the policy cost £1.00 per £100  of the monthly outstanding  balance. 
Ms Ns representative has made  a specific representation on her behalf. In summary,  her 
representative says:
The policy excluded or limited claims for stress,  which is one of the most common 
reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value  of cover;
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  saying 
she had sick pay so didnt  need  PPI. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN43233792relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ns. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ns complaint.
This sale took place  in March 2000  before the General Insurance Standards  Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not FICL. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If FICL  gave advice, whether it advised  Ms N with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether FICL gave  Ms N sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms N, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms N suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms N and FICL, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ns complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Ms N know she had a choice?
Ms N says she wasnt told PPI would be added and it was done so without her consent. 
FICL had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  It has provided a copy of Ms Ns 
application form. On the form there is a section about the policy  called account cover  and 
applicants need  to sign to buy the PPI. Ms N has signed for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN43233793Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Ms N knew  the policy  was optional  
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
did FICL provide  advice?
Both FICL and Ms N agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale.  
This means  FICL didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Ms N. Instead,  it had to give 
her sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable Ms N to make  an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in 
a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
As Ive mentioned  above, FICL has provided  us with Ms Ns application form showing that 
PPI had been selected. It has also referred  us to a copy of the paperwork it says she 
wouldve received,  including  the policy terms and conditions   which I accept on a balance 
of probabilities  applied  to policies like Ms Ns. 
Looking at the information provided to Ms N at the time,  I dont think  FICL gave Ms N the 
information she fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether 
or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  in a store. I dont know what FICL told Ms N about the PPI but I think  its 
unlikely she would have  agreed to take it out without  at least having a broad understanding  
of the cover  it provided  i.e. life, accident, sickness and unemployment cover. And I think its 
unlikely Ms N would have thought it was free.
But it was FICLs responsibility  to draw to Ms Ns attention the important  information   i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
I dont think its likely  FICL did enough to do this. For example, I dont think  its likely the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Ms N. In addition, its unlikely FICL adequately  drew to 
her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations  and exclusions.
So I dont  think FICL  gave Ms N sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
what effect did FICLs shortcomings have on Ms N? To what extent  did Ms N suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that FICL did not do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Ms N. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Ms N 
Ref: DRN43233794suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Ms N 
would have still taken  out the policy, had FICL done things properly. 
Ms N says she would  not have taken it out. And that she had sufficient means  through her 
employee benefits to meet her repayments if she was unable to work due to being too unwell 
or was made unemployed. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Ms N had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Ms N chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Ms N thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Ms N has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Ms N ought  reasonably to have known  she would have 
to pay something for the PPI because there is nothing to suggest it was free.  But, I accept 
that FICL  didnt make  clear the on-going  cost information. FICL  also didnt make it clear  what  
the benefit of the policy was. But the name of the policy was account cover  so I think  its 
likely she mightve thought it would meet the minimum payment. Where  in actual fact the 
policy covered 15% of her balance, which mightve  been better than she expected from any 
information she might have been  told or given. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms N thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought was the  policy contained limitations on claims relating to mental  
health conditions  placing more onerous  evidential requirements to support a claim on those 
grounds. I do accept  that there  is a possibility that this limitation  might  well have caused    
Ms N pause  for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  that the policy was not 
as good as she thought  and she might have decided  not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms N from taking  out the policy.  I also 
accept mental health conditions  are common problems as Ms Ns representative has said. 
But, the evidence  about Ms Ns circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved useful to her should the insured 
risks have become  a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest  she wouldve been  
caught by any of the significant exclusions  Ms N didnt  have any pre-existing medical 
conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think  she had some  good reasons 
to take the policy  out.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Ms N would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her employment  benefits and other  means. And in those 
circumstances I consider it more likely than not that she would have taken out the policy in 
any event.  
my decision
Ref: DRN43233795Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4323379