K820x#14complaint
Mr A says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the packaged Select 
Platinum account  in May 2015.
background
Mr A has had a number of packaged  accounts with RBS.  His account history is as follows:
opened as a fee free Route 15 account  on 19 October 1998,
upgraded to Royalties  account  on 01 December 2000,
converted to a fee free Current account on 17June 2002,
upgraded to Royalties  Gold  account on 12 June 2006,
converted to a fee free Current account on 15 August  2006,
upgraded to Select Silver account  on 01 May 2012,
converted to a fee free Select account  on 26 June 2012,
upgraded to Select Platinum account on 13 May 2015.
Mr A has only specifically  complained about  the most recent  upgrade to the Select Platinum 
account in 2015, and this is the only upgrade that RBS has investigated.  Because of this, 
Ive only considered the sale of the Select Platinum account.
Our adjudicator investigated and didnt think RBS had mis-sold the Select Platinum account. 
Mr As representative disagreed as she had provided evidence  of Mr As health conditions 
and how they would  have affected his decision making. She therefore did not think that RBS 
did enough during the sale of this account.  As an informal agreement couldnt  be reached,  
the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision. 
I also understand that Mr A has made a complaint about a loan he took out in 2016, after he 
upgraded to the Select Platinum account. But this is being dealt with under a separate  
complaint, so I havent considered the loan within this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to
help me decide  Mr As complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that RBS mis-sold the Select Platinum account  and Ill explain 
why.
Mr A has made a number  of different complaint  points. Hes said that he didnt  know  what he 
was paying for and didnt remember agreeing  to the upgrade.  That he thought he had to take 
it out to get a loan, overdraft or mortgage,  and that he wasnt  told there  was a free account 
available. Hes also said he only needed  the mobile phone insurance  because he doesnt  
have a driving license or a passport, so didnt need the travel insurance or breakdown  cover. 
Ive carefully considered  these points when making my decision. 
The first thing Ive considered is if RBS gained Mr As consent to upgrade his account  to the 
Select Platinum account, and if it made  him aware  that he had the option not to take it if he 
Ref: DRN45646302didnt want it. Mr A has said he didnt remember agreeing to the upgrade  and that he thought  
he had to have  it to take out a loan.  
RBS has been  able to give me some documents from the time of the sale.  One of these 
documents was a summary of the key exclusions and limitations of the Select  Platinum 
account. This set out the key benefits of the account and their exclusions  as well as the 
monthly cost. I can see Mr A was required  to tick to confirm he had been given the insurance 
policy summaries,  had been told to check if he had duplicate cover  and that he was told the 
monthly cost. Mr A did so and signed underneath to confirm he wanted  to take out the 
account. So, I think RBS gained Mr As consent to take out the packaged  account.  
Mr A has said he thought he had to take out the packaged account to get a loan. Ive thought  
about this carefully  and Ive considered his borrowing history with RBS.  Mr A had previously 
taken out a number of loans with RBS when he had a fee-free  account,  so I think  its more 
likely he was aware he didnt have to have a packaged account  in order to have a loan. And 
after he upgraded to a Select Platinum account,  he didnt take out a loan for over a year.  So, 
I think its unlikely this was a factor in his decision to upgrade to a packaged  account.  
Mr A has also said he wasnt  told there was a free account available.  But I can see hes 
previously switched between packaged accounts and fee-free accounts on multiple  
occasions. In addition to this, Mr A had a separate fee-free account during this time. So, on 
balance, I think its more  likely he was aware fee free accounts  were available  and that he 
could remain on one if he wished.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think RBS made a personal recommendation to Mr A for the 
Select Platinum account. This means  it didnt have to make sure the benefits  attached  to the 
account were suitable for Mr A, but it did have to give him enough information so he could 
make sure he wanted it. 
Looking at the summary document that Mr A ticked and signed during the sale, I think RBS 
set out the key benefits of the account and some of their exclusions. In addition  to this, Mr A 
did make  a successful claim on the mobile phone insurance in September  2017, so I think 
he was given enough information to understand how to use the benefits.  
I do recognise that Mr A had no need for two of the three main  benefits of the account, the 
travel insurance and the Breakdown cover.  However, given that no personal 
recommendation was made RBS only needed  to set out them main benefits of the account  
to allow  Mr A to decide whether this was an account that he wanted. 
Ive given a lot of thought to what Mr As representative has said about  Mr As ability  to 
process information and make financial decisions.  From what Ive seen, it seems likely  that 
Mr A would need things  to be broken  down  for him in simpler  terms than other customers or 
that he would need some more time to process  the information. With this in mind, Ive 
thought about what RBS  duty of care was to Mr A as a more  vulnerable  customer.
In order for RBS to make reasonable adjustments for Mr A, it first has to be aware  of any 
accessibility needs  or vulnerabilities. Some vulnerabilities, such  as age or physical 
impairments, are visible. But from the information available to me, it appears Mr As 
vulnerabilities arent.  RBS has said it wasnt aware of Mr A requiring any reasonable 
adjustments at the time of the sale of the Select Platinum account. It has provided a detailed  
contact note from a member of Mr As family  in which the family  member confirms Mr As 
vulnerabilities were not on record in 2016  when he took out a loan. So, it follows that they 
Ref: DRN45646303also werent on record in 2015 when he upgraded the packaged bank account. Because its 
more likely RBS wasnt aware of Mr As vulnerabilities, it cant  be expected to have made 
reasonable adjustments for him when  selling him the Select  Platinum account.
I should add at this point  that I am only able to recommend that RBS refund the account  fees 
if I am satisfied that RBS made an error during its sales process and that it was this error 
that caused Mr A to take out the account.  But given the above while I sympathise that Mr A 
may have  not taken  out an account that was right for him, I dont think  this was due to an 
error on RBSs part and therefore I am unable to recommend that the account  fees be 
refunded.
Therefore, having  carefully considered everything available to me, I dont think RBS mis-sold 
the Select Platinum account to Mr A. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4564630