complaint
Mr H complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma) gave him a loan 
irresponsibly.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision that I issued in 
November 2019.  An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I thought the complaint should  be upheld.  I invited  both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Satsuma has responded to confirm that it agrees with my provisional decision and proposed 
redress.
Mr H has also responded and, whilst welcoming the outcome  of my provisional decision, asks 
that the following points be taken into consideration:
1.as the loan was repaid soon after itd been  provided, very little interest was paid and no 
additional fees were charged;
2.he doesnt believe that the remedial  actions proposed in my provisional decision will serve 
to hurt Satsuma financially, or to stop it from acting similarly in future;
3.Satsumas affordability calculations indicated that Mr H had monthly disposable income  of 
only £319  which  Mr H considers  to be insufficient for him to live upon.
I concur that the value of the financial redress proposed in my provisional  decision is likely to 
be relatively modest  but this is a reflection of the very short period of time that the loan was 
outstanding.
To reiterate  what I stated in my provisional decision, any questions about censure or penalties 
against financial services  businesses would fall to be considered by the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  The remit  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service  is to resolve disputes and, 
where a financial  services business  has done  something wrong,  to ensure that it puts things 
right for the consumer.  It is not empowered to consider, or apply, punitive remedies against a 
financial institution.
I proposed upholding Mr Hs complaint  as I felt that the loan repayments  represented  a 
significant proportion  of his income. So, in essence,  I agree with his last point.
Having considered again the particular circumstances  of this complaint I see no basis  for 
departing from the conclusions  that I reached  in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Provident Personal Credit  Limited  
(trading as Satsuma) to put things right as follows:
refund  the interest and charges Mr H paid on the loan;
Ref: DRN4720008pay interest on the refunds at 8% simple*  per year from the dates of payment to the date of 
settlement;
remove any adverse information  about  the loan from Mr Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Mr H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4720008EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
Background
This complaint relates to an instalment loan of £1,000 repayable over 12 months given to Mr H by 
Satsuma. The complaint  has been brought by Mr Hs father on his behalf but, for ease, I shall refer 
in this decision simply  to Mr H.
The loan was granted in August 2018 and was repaid by Mr Hs father less than one week after it 
was drawn, and within the right to withdraw period. Mr H had been suffering from serious mental 
health problems which impacted upon  his ability  to make rational decisions.  Upon learning of the 
loan, Mr Hs father repaid it on his sons behalf.
Mr H contends that Satsuma  didnt undertake adequate checks  before providing  the loan and that, if it 
had, it wouldve seen that the loan was unaffordable. Also, he believes that Satsuma shouldve been 
aware of his mental state and recognised  that he wasnt in a position  to make informed decisions. He 
has requested  that £1,000 be paid back to him, and that Satsuma should be fined and censured for its 
behaviour.
Satsuma believes that it did carry  out sufficient checks and had satisfied itself that the loan was 
affordable to Mr H.
Because both parties have  not agreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H could repay  the loan 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different  things, such  as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should  fairly 
and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income).
I think its important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish  whether  Mr H 
could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow  that this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting 
other reasonable  commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow  to meet the repayments.
So it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower 
wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Ref: DRN4720008Satsuma has told us that, before lending,  it asked Mr H for details of his income  and 
expenditure. Mr H told Satsuma that his net monthly income was £650 and his monthly 
expenditure was £25. Repayments to the loan were £166 per month over 12 months.
Satsuma also carried out credit checks, including  verification of Mr Hs income,  but I havent seen the 
results of these checks. It then applied  a safeguard buffer  adjustment to his declared  expenditure  to 
reflect its view that this had been understated. In the light of these  checks Satsuma  considered the 
loan to be affordable.
Having considered  carefully the circumstances  here I dont see any reason  why Satsuma ought  to 
have been aware of Mr Hs mental condition at this time. But, Mr H has told us that he had not worked 
since May 2018 and that, at the time of the loan, his only income was an Employment  and Support 
Allowance of less than £650 per month. I think that, given the term of the loan coupled  with Mr Hs low 
income, the repayments of £166 per month over a year represented a significant proportion of his 
income. In these circumstances  I dont think that Satsuma shouldve agreed  to provide the loan.
Putting things right   proposed redress
I plan to instruct  Satsuma  to:
refund the interest and charges Mr H paid on the loan;
pay interest on the refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the date of 
settlement;
remove any adverse  information about the loan from Mr Hs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest.  Satsuma must give 
Mr H a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Mr H has suggested that the £1,000 he paid to Satsuma in repayment of the loan principal be given  
back to him on the basis the loan should  never have  been  provided  in the first place. But Mr H has 
confirmed that the proceeds of Satsumas  loan were used by him to pay off other everyday expenses 
and bills. As he has had the benefit of these funds I can see no justification  for asking Satsuma to 
refund the principal loan repayment to him.
Also, Mr H asked  that Satsuma be fined and censured for its actions. Whilst  I am of the opinion  that 
Satsuma wasnt right to give this loan to Mr H, I consider the redress set out above to be 
appropriate. Any question about  a lenders activities  leading to fines  and censure is beyond the remit 
of this service  and would fall to be considered  by the regulator (in this case the Financial Conduct 
Authority)
Ref: DRN4720008K821x#15
Ref: DRN4720008