K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that advice given to him by Sanlam Wealth  Planning UK Ltd in 2008  was 
unsuitable. He further complains that Sanlam has failed to provide the on-going servicing  of 
his pension funds  that he was paying  a fee for. In particular he says that Sanlam has failed 
to hold regular  meetings  with him and that it had left his pension fund invested  in cash for a 
significant period  of time.
background
Mr Hs relationship was with a firm of advisors that has since  been acquired by Sanlam. So 
although Mr H didnt  have  any direct dealings with Sanlam, it is that firm that is now 
responsible for the advice and servicing he was given from 2008 onwards. And for ease, 
throughout this decision, I will refer to Sanlam as the firm that dealt with Mr H.
The meeting  that Mr H held with Sanlam  in 2008, and the subsequent  advice  that was 
provided, related  to both his pension savings,  and those of his wife. Mrs H has made a 
separate complaint against Sanlam  that I will also be considering. So in this decision I will 
only deal with the parts of the meeting  and advice that relate  to Mr H.
Mr H held pension savings with two pension providers when he met with Sanlam in 2008. He 
was making monthly  contributions to one pension plan, and an annual  contribution  to the 
other. Shortly before this meeting  Mr H had sold his business, but as a condition of the sale 
was contracted  to work for the purchaser  for a period of at least  12 months. His new 
employer agreed  to make pension contributions  as a part of his remuneration  package.
Sanlam advised  Mr H to transfer his two existing pensions into a new self-invested  personal 
pension (SIPP). And it advised him to open  a new personal pension  with a provider I will 
call S. After  considering the pension contribution options offered by Mr Hs employer it 
advised him to accept  monthly pension contributions that would be paid into his personal  
pension with S.
The savings in Mr Hs SIPP were invested  into a single fund. In 2014 Sanlam advised Mr H 
that fund had been closed  and so his savings  were currently being held in cash.  Since Mr H 
expected to take some pension benefits  two years later, Sanlam recommended  that the 
invest those funds into a two year deposit fund. It doesnt appear that investment decision 
was completed and so the funds remained in cash for a considerable time.
Mr H was paying an annual fee to Sanlam  for the on-going management of his pension  
savings. He says that as part of that service  he should have received regular meetings with 
an advisor to discuss the performance of his investments. Although  Sanlam says it either  
regularly met, or tried to meet with, Mr H between 2008 and 2014, it accepts that it might 
have done more to facilitate meetings after that. So it offered Mr H £150  as a refund of some 
of the advice fees hed paid. Mr H didnt accept that offer and brought  his complaint to this 
Service.
Mr Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that the 
recommendation that Sanlam had made in 2008 had been suitable. So he asked Sanlam to 
pay Mr H some compensation. And since that compensation  would also recompense Mr H 
for any losses he had suffered as a result  of his savings remaining in cash, and for the 
advice fees he had paid, he didnt need  to consider those aspects of Mr Hs complaint.
Ref: DRN46769202Disappointingly Sanlam  didnt  respond to that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been  passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last 
stage of our process.  If Mr H accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
In deciding this complaint  I have taken account  of the submissions that have been made by 
Mr H and by Sanlam. Where the evidence is unclear, or there  are conflicts,  I have made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what 
evidence we do have,  and the surrounding  circumstances, to help me decide what I think is 
more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred
It isnt clear from the information  I have been given  how Mr Hs relationship  with Sanlam 
started. As I said earlier,  Mr H already  held two separate pension plans, but it doesnt seem 
he had any previous relationship with Sanlam. So it would be reasonable, at the start of that 
relationship, for Sanlam  to review Mr Hs financial situation and make  any necessary 
recommendations. And around this time Mr H had moved into a period of employment, and 
was entitled to some pension  contributions  from his employer  as part of his remuneration 
package. I will deal with that first.
Mr Hs employer provided him with three options  for his pension contributions.  He could join 
his employers final salary  pension scheme.  He could  also join an employer run stakeholder 
pension plan. Or he could receive contributions  from his employer to a scheme of his choice. 
After discussing the matter with Mr Hs employer, and with Mr H, Sanlam recommended that 
Mr H took the pension contributions. It discounted the final salary scheme because  Mr H 
would need to make contributions that were more than he was willing  to pay. And Mr H had 
concerns over the fund choices available in the stakeholder scheme. So on that basis I dont 
think this part of Sanlams  advice was unreasonable.
Sanlam assessed  Mr Hs attitude to risk  it noted that Mr H was a cautious investor. And it 
reviewed the investments  that were  held in Mr Hs two current  pension schemes. Sanlam 
concluded that Mr Hs pension investments exceeded his stated risk profile. Sanlam 
recommended that Mr H transfer  the funds held in his two pension  plans into a new SIPP. 
And it then recommended  that the entire  SIPP was invested into a single managed fund. 
That fund had been specifically designed  for clients of Sanlam.
Ref: DRN46769203The funds that Mr H transferred into the SIPP were sufficiently large that a SIPP  might  be 
appropriate. But I cant see that Mr H needed  the additional flexibility that a SIPP  offered. He 
wasnt a sophisticated  investor that would be likely to need extensive  investment options  in 
fact as I said earlier, after the transfer all his savings  were  placed into a single fund.  And the 
transfer to that fund had significant cost implications. Mr H needed to pay an exit charge on 
one of his pension plans. He needed to pay an initial charge of over 5% when his funds were  
placed into the new fund in the SIPP. And the annual management charges he paid for the 
SIPP were  much higher  than the charges he was paying on his previous pension  plans.
At the time the advice  was given, in 2008,  Mr H was aged 47. So potentially  he would only 
have around eight years until he could take some retirement benefits. So the relative  
shortness of that period  would have further exacerbated the impact  of the initial  and ongoing 
charges that Mr H needed to pay. I havent  seen anything that makes me think Mr H couldnt  
have achieved his investment objectives through his existing pension funds.
Sanlam also advised  Mr H to open a new personal pension with one of his existing 
providers. It recommended that he use that scheme  to receive his employer contributions, 
and any additional  monthly contributions that Mr H wished to make. And Sanlam 
recommended those savings be invested in another single investment fund. As before 
I havent seen  anything to make  me think one of Mr Hs existing pension plans couldnt have 
received those contributions instead.
So I am not persuaded that the advice Sanlam  gave to Mr H in 2008 was suitable. I dont 
see any reason why he should  have  been  advised  to transfer his existing pension savings 
into a new SIPP. I think one of his existing pension plans could have been used to both 
receive his employers contributions and invest his pension savings in a manner more  
appropriate to his stated level of risk. So I am directing that Sanlam puts things right and 
pays Mr H some compensation.
Like our adjudicator I have considered the other  areas of Mr Hs complaint  about the 
ongoing fees he has been charged and the loss of investment  returns  from his funds being  
left in cash in 2014.  But having  done so I dont  think I need to take them any further. As I 
said earlier, should I uphold a complaint I would look to place a consumer back  into the 
position they would have  been if the problem  hadnt occurred. Here, since  I have found the 
initial advice was inappropriate, the redress I am directing  will also correct any problems that 
might have happened later. And I think the same applies to the further advice Mr H received 
in 2010 that completed the transfer of some protected  rights  pension savings that could  not 
be transferred in 2008.
putting things right
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I take the view that Mr H would have 
invested differently.  Its not possible to say precisely  what he would  have done  differently. 
But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr H's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.  
Ref: DRN46769204what should  Sanlam do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, Sanlam must:
Compare the performance of each of Mr H's investments  with that of the benchmark 
shown below.
A separate  calculation should  be carried out for each investment. The losses should  
be combined and the total is the amount of compensation payable.  Sanlam should 
add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Sanlam  should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Sanlam is unable to pay the total amount into Mr H's pension plan, it should  pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. I have assumed this to be at the 
basic rate.
So, for example,  as Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected  
retirement age, the reduction would equal  the current basic rate of tax. However,  if 
M H would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction  should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Sanlam deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr H how much has been  taken off. Sanlam should give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end  date)additional 
interest
New SIPP
&
New 
Personal 
Pensionstill existsfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Ref: DRN46769205For each investment:
Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. The starting value should  be calculated as the transfer value of Mr Hs 
pension plans before  the deduction of any advice  charges or exit penalties.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Sanlam should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Sanlam totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr H wanted capital  growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr H's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr H into that position.  It does not mean that Mr H would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some  kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr H could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and 
risk attitude.
Ref: DRN46769206My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Sanlam  Wealth Planning UK Ltd should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above. In addition Sanlam Wealth Planning UK Ltd should pay 
Mr H the sum of £300 for the trouble and upset this matter will have caused  to him, and the 
disruption it might have caused  to his retirement planning.
Sanlam Wealth Planning UK Ltd should provide  details of its calculation to Mr H in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4676920