K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrote  and said how sorry it was to lose his business 
when it was HSBC  that closed  his account.
background
HSBC closed Mr As account  and gave him 60 days notice to make alternative 
arrangements. Mr A said this was unfair,  and this is subject  to a separate complaint.
HSBC wrote to Mr A again saying it was sorry to see him go and asked him to contact if 
there's something  it can do. Mr A said this letter was highly disrespectful, inappropriate and 
mocked him. He said when HSBC closed his partners account it sent her a similar letter,  for 
which it paid £100  compensation.  He said HSBC was discriminating against  him by offering 
no compensation.
HSBC apologised  to Mr A for its letter, acknowledging  that it was the banks decision to 
close his account.  HSBC said this was an automated letter  and it would take steps to ensure 
this didnt happen again. It told our service that it paid compensation to Mr As partner in 
similar circumstances by mistake and it didnt  feel any compensation was due to Mr A.
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said its clear HSBCs  
letter didn't  fit Mr As situation,  but it had apologised for its error  and it didnt need  to do 
anything more.
Mr A disagreed with the investigator saying HSBCs  letter  and lack of compensation isnt 
acceptable and is unsympathetic  and discriminating. He requested  an ombudsman review 
his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr A found HSBCs letter highly disrespectful and unacceptable.  Ive looked  
carefully at the circumstances  of Mr As complaint.
Part of the purpose of the letter from HSBC,  that Mr A objects to, is to explain how the switch  
to his new account will work. It does also state  that HSBC is sorry to lose him as a customer.  
This is clearly inappropriate as it was HSBC that decided to end their banking  relationship,  
but I can see this is an automatically generated letter  and so theres  no reason to disbelieve 
HSBC that it was sent in error  to Mr A.
I dont think the letter  mocks Mr A, or is disrespectful to him personally, or his situation.  
Because of this I think HSBCs apology  is sufficient to resolve Mr As complaint fairly and I 
wont ask it to do anything  further. I have noted HSBCs explanation of the compensation 
paid to Mr As partner.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Ref: DRN47786122Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4778612