K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the service he received from The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS) 
when he tried to make  a money transfer from his account. 
background
Mr A encountered difficulty  when he tried to access his account by mobile phone on the 
2 May 2019.  He wanted to make  a transfer of £40,000 but was unable  to do so. When  he 
spoke to RBS on the phone  they asked him to go into a branch to do the transfer,  which he 
did. But he felt a number  of things went wrong.  First,  he was told there  would be a £20 fee to 
make a CHAPS transfer; he was kept standing at the counter for 45 minutes  when the staff 
knew he had a health condition; when he asked to make a complaint he was handed a slip 
of paper with a telephone  number written on it, and lastly he was repeatedly asked a series 
of questions whilst standing at the counter which he said made him feel like a criminal.  
RBS acknowledged  there were  service failings and apologised. They explained  the reason 
Mr A had been unable to carry  out his transaction on his phone  was probably to do with 
issues of IT compatibility since his mobile phone was not using a compatible Android 
operating system. They also apologised that prior to attending the branch he as not made 
aware that there would  be a fee payable. But they pointed out the transfer was done  by the 
Faster Payment service in two £20,000 amounts over two days so as to avoid that fee. In 
recognition of this failure they offered to pay him £10 in lost interest  and £20 for his taxi fare. 
RBS also acknowledged  that it could have  been more proactive in offering a seat to Mr A 
and/or taking him into a private  room. They explained the security  questions asked were 
necessary, and for their customers protection, but accepting  a private room would have 
been more appropriate. They acknowledged  they ought to have registered his complaint at 
the branch, apologising for all these failings and offering him £40 in gift vouchers.
Mr A was unhappy with RBSs response and so an investigator from this service  looked into 
the complaint.  She accepted that there had been  failings  in the level of service but found that 
the level of recompense offered to Mr A was fair and reasonable. Mr A disagreed with that 
view and so the matter has been  passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will not repeat the investigators 
summary of the background  to this complaint because it is accurate  and full and I want to 
avoid repetition.  But, if it appears that I havent mentioned something it is not because I have 
ignored it, but because  I dont think  its relevant  to the issues I have to decide.  
What I need to decide is whether RBS acted fairly  and reasonably  in how it dealt with Mr A. I 
must of course make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award  redress where  it is appropriate so to do. I do not perform  
the role of the industry regulator, and nor do I have  the power to make rules for financial 
businesses, punish  them, or direct  that they change their processes. 
I think we have an unfortunate situation  here and I do think that Mr A ought to have received 
better service from RBS. Regarding Mr A being unable to use his mobile  phone  to access  
his account initially,  the evidence indicates  that the problem was the operating system on his 
Ref: DRN42582552phone perhaps  becoming  out of date. This does happen from time to time quite naturally as 
systems generally are improved, and that is not the fault of RBS. I am pleased  to note that 
RBS have now worked with Mr A to ensure that he can, going forward, use his phone.
RBS have acknowledged and accepted their failures in relation to not advising Mr A of the 
CHAPS fee before he set off for the branch; in not offering him a private room or a seat,  and 
in failing to record  his complaint in branch. They are right to do so and I am to see that 
feedback to the staff at the branch  has been given. Hopefully that will avoid any repetition.  I 
accept RBS were acting appropriately  when  they asked Mr A all the security  questions.  The 
amount he wanted  to transfer was large and I accept their intentions  were to safeguard him 
and protect his money from fraudulent activity. But they should have carried  out that process 
in private and whilst I dont think RBS would intentionally want to make  Mr A feel the way he 
did, I can equally accept that that is precisely how he would have felt.
What I need to decide is whether RBS acted fairly  and reasonably  in how it dealt with Mr A. I 
have thought about the offer of compensation made and on balance  I think  that this is 
reasonable. Mr A was reimbursed his taxi fare and offered £10 to cover the lost interest by 
having to make two payments over a weekend rather than a single payment. That has put 
him back in the position he would have been  in. 
The experience Mr A had in the branch was not good which RBS accept, and they have 
apologised and offered £40 in gift vouchers. I have thought about this, and I know  Mr A 
would like £200 but I think that is too much. The offer by RBS is in line with the awards this 
service would make for distress and inconvenience  in circumstances like this, and I think  it is 
fair.
my final decision
RBS has already made an offer to pay £30 in compensation and £40 in gift vouchers to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is 
that The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc should pay £30 in compensation and £40 in gift 
vouchers.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4258255