K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited (LV) have unfairly refused to 
cover his home insurance claim.
background
In March 2019, Mr Ws pickup truck  was broken  into and some  personal  items were stolen,
Mr W contacted  LV to claim on his home  insurance  policy - but they said he couldnt  claim as 
his items  werent stored out of sight, in a locked car, in a glove or luggage compartment.
Mr W said his items  were  stored out of sight in the footwell in the second row of the vehicles 
cabin - which the manufacturer says is the luggage  compartment. He said the items wouldnt 
have been visible from the outside  as the back of the vehicle has privacy glass  windows - 
and the footwell wasnt visible from the front, Mr W provided photos  he said showed this. He 
wants LV to accept his claim.
LV said privacy glass windows could  still be seen  through.  They  said the front area didnt 
have privacy glass windows, and there was no partition screen between the back and front 
seats so you would also be able to see inside  the vehicle from some parts of the front.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 26 September  2019. In that decision I 
said:
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ws policy say LV wont pay for losses  from an unattended 
vehicle unless the item is stored out of sight in a glove or luggage compartment and the 
vehicle is locked. Mr Ws policy wasnt tailored to any specific  vehicle  but LV can decide  
what risks they will and wont  cover  under the policy - and the terms and conditions  of the 
policy define what those  are. I appreciate  the theft of his items, and to be told he wasnt 
covered, would have  been upsetting  for Mr W. But what I need to decide here is whether I 
think its fair and reasonable for LV to rely on the policy exclusion quoted  to refuse  to cover
Mr Ws claim. 
Mr W says the manufacturer told him the footwell is the luggage compartment. Hes provided 
us with an email from them which says between the choice of storing luggage in the second 
row of the cabin,  behind the front seats,  and the pickup load space, they would store  the 
items behind  the front seats  - as this is a secure area out of sight. But it doesnt  say its 
classed as a luggage compartment. To understand more about the luggage compartments in 
the vehicle, I contacted  two separate dealerships. Both said the footwell isnt classed as a 
luggage compartment and storing  items here wouldnt conceal  them  out of sight. So Im not 
persuaded the footwell is classed as a luggage compartment.
From the photos Mr W provided  the height  of his vehicle, and the length of the bonnet, could  
make it hard to see the back footwell from the front as hes said.  But I can see the back of 
the vehicle is still visible through  the privacy  glass from outside. Although privacy glass  
obscures the view and makes it harder to see inside, it can still be seen through.  The items 
were in the footwell  so if someone looked through the privacy  glass, particularly from close 
up, its likely  they would  be able to see inside  the back of the vehicle where Mr Ws items 
were. So I dont think Mr Ws items were stored out of sight. 
I think LV made a fair and reasonable decision in line with the terms and conditions  of the 
policy to refuse Mr Ws claim. So I dont intend  to ask them to do anything further.
Ref: DRN48253682Mr W and LV said they had nothing  further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive no additional information or comments from either party  my findings remain  
unchanged from my provisional  decision.  So, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Mr Ws complaint  so I wont  be asking 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4825368