K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company  of Europe SE (Aioi)s 
decision to cancel his car insurance policy. Mr Hs mother  Ms M is representing him in his 
complaint. 
All reference to Aioi includes its agents.
background
Mr H bought a telematics box car insurance  policy with the insurer,  Aioi. Aioi contacted Mr H 
as there  was a problem  with the data.  It spoke to Ms M to arrange an inspection. The 
inspection wasnt arranged and so Aioi cancelled Mr Hs policy.  
Aioi said as the cancellation was an enforced cancellation, Mr H would  need  to tell future 
insurers about it if asked.
Ms M asked Aioi to reverse  the enforced cancellation. But Aioi said it had acted correctly and 
in line with the policy. It had asked Ms M to arrange  an inspection  and it had written and 
emailed Mr H to warn  him that if the inspection wasnt arranged, it would cancel his policy. 
Ms M asked us to look at her sons complaint. She wanted Aioi to withdraw  its record of an 
enforced cancellation. She said she feels responsible for the error which led to the 
cancellation and the consequences  for her son are unduly harsh. 
Our investigator didnt  think Aioi had done  anything  wrong. It had shown that it carried  out 
the cancellation process fairly.
Ms M didnt agree. She said Aioi didnt do enough  to explain the consequences  of not 
arranging an inspection.  If they had, she would have  made sure it happened  to prevent the 
policy from being cancelled. Ms M appreciates this may have been explained in the policy 
documents  but she said not everybody  reads  the small print.
Ms M would like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it.
I appreciate that my decision will be a disappointment to Mr H and his mother Ms M. But in 
this case, I think Aioi has acted reasonably and in line with the policy. I cant  ask Aioi to 
make a change it doesnt agree with based on goodwill. I can make a decision requiring Aioi 
to do something to put things right where it has acted  unreasonably. That isnt the case  here.  
Mr Hs policy  says:
"in the event of the intele- box developing a fault, we will notify you and arrange  with 
you a mutually convenient  time for a replacement in-tele-box  to be fitted. 
Ref: DRN48210262You must give us access to your car within 7 days of being notified of the fault or, 
where there  are exceptional circumstances that prevent you from doing so, within a 
reasonable time. We can cancel your policy if you fail to co-operate with us, where 
required to do so within the terms of this policy."
I understand Ms M believed that the reason why the telematics box wasnt  providing  any 
data was because  her son wasnt driving the car. It was at their home  address while he was 
studying at University. But I dont think Aiois  request  was unreasonable based on the policy  
terms.
Aioi called Ms M as this was the contact number it had on record. The agent explained to 
Ms M that an inspection  was required even if Ms M might  be right as to why the data wasnt  
showing. Ms M said she was about  to get on a train so it wasnt convenient. The agent 
asked Ms M to call back. 
Two days later Aioi sent a letter and an email to Mr Hs home  and email  address. Ms M says 
that Mr H hadnt used the email address for over a year. And if the letter  had been received, 
Mr H wouldnt  have been opened as he was at University  when  it was sent. 
Aioi also sent a text message to Ms Ms number which said: we have  written  to you via post 
and email regarding  your insurance policy. Please  give this matter your immediate attention.
Ms M said she remembers receiving this message but she was travelling on business  at the 
time and didnt appreciate the significance.  
The letter and email  asked Mr H to contact Aioi to arrange an inspection. They read:
If we are unable to complete the inspection within this time,  we shall have no 
alternative but to cancel  all cover  from 00:01am on 8 March 2019  (21 DAYS TIME)  in 
accordance with Section 12.6 of your Private Car Policy Document.
In the event that your policy is cancelled, please note that neither Tesco  Bank Box 
Insurance nor any other Insure The Box administered product will be prepared to 
arrange insurance for you in the future.  You will also be obliged to inform any future 
insurance provider  that we have enforced the cancellation of this policy, as failure  to 
do so may invalidate any future insurance that you apply for.
As Aioi didnt hear from Mr H or Ms M, it cancelled Mr Hs policy. 
I cant say it was unreasonable  of Aioi not to mention the consequences  of not arranging an 
inspection in the call it had with Ms M. The call ended  because Ms M said it wasnt  
convenient. Aioi followed  up the call by writing and emailing Mr H using the details provided. 
It couldnt have  known that Mr H didnt use the email address any more   or that its letter 
wouldnt have been read. And it also sent a text message which  was delivered to Ms Ms 
phone  using  the number  provided  by Mr H. 
I know Ms M wants  Aioi to remove the cancellation  marker against Mr Hs record.  But from 
what Ive seen, Aioi gave clear and reasonable notice of cancellation using all 
communication methods available. I think it treated Mr H fairly and as it would  any other 
customer in the same  circumstances. So I cant ask Aioi to remove the cancellation marker.
Ref: DRN48210263my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4821026