K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Scottish Widows Limited  is failing to calculate redress due to him for 
the mis-selling of a pension in a timely  manner.
background
Whilst we have been considering this complaint Mr W has also raised some concerns about 
the fall in value of his pension benefits due to what he has said were delays caused  by 
Scottish Widows. Those concerns have  been raised  as a separate  complaint, and so wont  
form part of my consideration  in this decision.
Mr W was advised to start a personal pension with Scottish Widows.  Following a regulatory 
review of that sale in 1998 Scottish  Widows concluded that it should have provided different 
advice to Mr W. It should have advised him to join his occupational  pension scheme instead. 
So at that time Scottish Widows provided Mr W with a guarantee that, when  he took his 
pension benefits  from Scottish Widows,  it would compare  them  with the benefits he would 
have received if he had joined his occupation  scheme instead.  And it would make good  any 
shortfall in the pension  payments Mr W would receive from his Scottish  Widows pension.
Mr W took his pension  benefits from Scottish  Widows in December 2018. He was told by 
Scottish Widows  that due to the complexity  of the calculations that now needed to be 
undertaken it was likely to be around  12 to 18 months before it was in a position to assess  
and start paying what was due under its guarantee. Unhappy  with that timescale  Mr W 
complained to Scottish Widows.
In response Scottish  Widows acknowledged that it hadnt previously made  Mr W aware  of 
how long it would take to perform  the guarantee calculations. So it paid him £250  for the 
inconvenience this delay might cause. It confirmed  that any payments due under the 
guarantee would be backdated to Mr Ws date of retirement and said an interim payment 
could be made if Mr W was facing financial difficulties.
Mr W didnt consider the response from Scottish Widows to be sufficient. So he brought  his 
complaint to this service.  Mr Ws complaint has been assessed  by one of our investigators. 
He thought that the time that Scottish Widows had said the guarantee calculations  would 
take was reasonable. And he thought the compensation  Scottish  Widows had paid Mr W for 
the inconvenience this delay might  cause was fair. So he didnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld.
Mr W didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
Ref: DRN44420512and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
In deciding this complaint  I dont need  to consider  what  happened  when Mr W was originally 
advised to start a pension with Scottish  Widows  rather than join his occupational scheme. In 
1998 Scottish Widows concluded that advice had been incorrect  and gave Mr W a guarantee 
that he wouldnt face a financial loss as a result when he took his pension  benefits.
Mr W took those  benefits in December 2018.  So it is from that point that Scottish  Widows 
needs to ensure that he doesnt lose out as a result of the incorrect  advice he was given 
when he originally started his pension. But making a fair assessment of the position Mr W 
would have been in if hed joined his occupational  scheme is complex.  Scottish Widows 
needs to review changes in the benefits and contribution requirements of that occupational 
scheme going back over 20 years. So Im not surprised that Scottish  Widows estimates it 
might be 12 to 18 months before it is able to give a final answer  to Mr W.
But what  is important is that this delay doesnt cause a further loss to Mr W. And I think  what 
Scottish Widows  has told Mr W should  allay those concerns. It has agreed  that any 
additional payments it needs to make under the guarantee  will be backdated to the date at 
which Mr W started taking  his pension benefits.  And it has offered to make an interim 
payment to Mr W if he provides details  of any financial difficulties he is facing.
I appreciate that this situation is far from ideal. Mr W has pointed out that if hed originally  
been advised to join his occupational scheme  he would have been able to take all his 
pension benefits  at retirement.  But it isnt possible to reverse  what  happened over 20 years  
ago. All I can ask Scottish Widows  to do is to ensure that the redress it pays is sufficient  to 
ensure that Mr W doesnt lose out because of the incorrect advice  he was given. Although it 
may take some time, ultimately I think that is what the guarantee payments will ensure.  And 
I think the payment  of £250 that Scottish  Widows has made is reasonable to reflect the 
trouble and upset  the calculation delays will cause to Mr W.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Scottish Widows  Limited. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required 
to ask Mr W to accept  or reject  my decision before 29 May 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4442051