K821x#15complaint
Mr and Ms G are unhappy with the way that CIS General Insurance  Limited dealt with their 
home insurance claim for water damage  to their property.
background
In November 2017 Mr and Ms G reported a claim to CIS following a burst pipe in their 
bathroom causing extensive water  damage. They and their family  had to move into 
alternative accommodation. Over the next few months drying  out and repairs  were carried  
out. Mr and Ms G were anxious to move back, particularly as one of their children had health 
issues. 
They were  told in April 2018 that the property was ready for them  to move back. But on      
re-entering the property  Mr and Ms G found  the repairs  hadnt been completed and the 
house was very dirty. The toilet was completely blocked and they had to pay to repair  it, the 
sink was left in a very poor state  and the bath had been used for cleaning  paintbrushes. 
They had to carry out the cleaning themselves  and had to put up with workmen  coming in 
and out of the house which upset their children.  The contractors damaged the hearth 
(although did agree  to pay for it), and the skirting board was left off, causing rodents  to come 
into the house. 
Mr and Ms G made a complaint to CIS who, after reviewing the matter said it would  pay 
them £200  for the trouble  and upset caused to them.  They  didnt accept this. They also said 
some work was still outstanding.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator thought  that the £200 offered was reasonable. He 
pointed out that any outstanding issues couldnt  be dealt with under this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought the compensation offered wasnt  
sufficient and that it should be increased  to £600. I also said if Mr and Ms G had incurred 
plumbers or cleaning costs they should be paid those. I thought CIS should also consider the 
damage to the sink toilet and bath.
CIS didnt  essentially  disagree  with my findings, although pointed out that it agreed  to extend 
the alternative accommodation so the contractors  could  finish clearing up. It wasnt advised  
at any time of the mice  problem  so didnt think it had any liability for pest control costs.
As far as I can see Mr and Ms G didnt disagree either. They  sent in further  photos  of the 
state of the house and made some comments. I will deal with their further comments  below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I made  the following provisional  findings:
Its clear that Mr and Ms G were  anxious to move  back to their home as soon as possible 
and five months is a long time for a family with young children, particularly one with health 
issues. It was reasonable for them to expect that the property would be ready  by April 2018, 
and they were assured that it was. Ms G supplied photos which  I havent seen but CISs 
complaints handler  described the property  as being in an appalling  state. It appears that 
Ref: DRN45921402the project manager was either  wrongly  informed or wrongly assumed that the property was 
ready for Mr and Ms G to move back in.
That said,  whilst I understand that the contractors were still at work and didnt see the need  
to deep clean whilst they went along, they should have kept it tidy and safe. And I can see 
that having moved back in Mr and Ms G had no option but to carry out a deep clean 
themselves. They havent  said that they employed contractors to do this, but if they did they 
should submit the bill to CIS. If they also advise  our adjudicator in response  to this 
provisional decision I may be able to direct CIS to pay it.
Mr and Ms G have  referred to other damage they say was caused by the contractors. It has 
been agreed that the contractors will pay for the repair to the hearth. Before the final 
response letter in June 2018  it appears  that the toilet was blocked  if as I understand it 
Mr and Ms G have  had to pay for a plumber to deal with that they should  submit the bull to 
CIS. Again if they also advise our adjudicator  in response to this provisional decision I may 
be able to direct CIS to pay it. The downstairs  sink may have needed repairing or specialised 
cleaning. Mr and Ms G also say paintbrushes were cleaned in the bath and again that might  
need repair or cleaning. I think CIS should  reconsider  these issues with a view to resolving 
them.
Mr and Ms G also say they had to deal with mice coming into the property  because  of the 
lack of a skirting board. I cant see that this issue was mentioned  to CIS, it doesnt appear in 
its complaints log. Although they did tell this service when making their complaint  to us. If 
they have incurred costs of a pest control company I would be happy to consider them when 
making the final decision.
Ms G advised us that the stress of the matter has caused her health problems. Whist I can 
understand that it would  have caused her stress  I cant  take any health issues  into account  
without medical evidence.
Whilst Ms G has confirmed that she has had and continues to have health  problems, I still 
havent seen any medical evidence. I have  taken into account the stress the situation must 
have caused the family.  
overall
I made  the following further provisional  findings:
I have taken into account the state of the property when Mr and Ms G moved back  in and the 
poor communication which  led them to believe the property was ready. I have also taken into 
account that they had to do the cleaning, and that they had to live in the property whilst  
workmen had to work around them. CIS was aware that one of their children had health 
issues meaning that the extra disturbance caused  difficulties  for the family.  I think the 
compensation for trouble  and upset was too low. I propose to increase this to £600. If 
Mr and Ms G would like me to consider their photos  of this, I would ask them  to supply them 
to us in response  to this decision.
If Mr and Ms G have  incurred: 
plumbers costs
cleaners costs
pest control companys costs
Ref: DRN45921403Then if they can produce evidence of those in response to this provisional decision I will be 
happy to consider requiring CIS to pay for them.
As regards  the sink, bath and toilet I would propose  that CIS reconsider  those  items.  It has 
already agreed  the hearth  repair.
CIS has confirmed it has no objection to considering the damage to the sink toilet  and bath. 
Mr and Ms G say the cost of repairing the hearth still hasnt been agreed.  If thats  the case, 
they should raise  it as a new complaint with CIS. 
As far as I can see, no pest control company was appointed. So I dont propose to make an 
award relating  to that. Its quite  possible that as the property  had gone  through an extensive 
strip out and was empty for a time, this couldnt be helped. Nonetheless I have taken into 
account that this would have caused  extra stress when Mr and Ms G were  moved  back  too 
early.
outstanding repairs
I made  the following further provisional  findings:
As our adjudicator advised, for any issues that arose after the final response letter,  like 
outstanding repairs,  and particularly the kitchen floor, Mr and Ms G should raise  those  with 
CIS. If they are still dissatisfied, they can make a formal complaint. And if that isnt resolved 
they could make a further complaint to this service.
Mr and Ms G said they did pay emergency cleaning costs. CIS hasnt objected to paying  
those. Nevertheless it can only do so on production of an invoice from Mr and Ms G.I havent 
seen any evidence of a plumbers costs. Again CIS can only pay those  if Mr and Ms G are 
able to produce an invoice.
Overall I havent changed  my view. So my provisional findings as set out above are now 
final.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require CIS General  Insurance Limited  to:
pay to Mr and Ms G £600 compensation
pay, subject  to Mr and Ms G producing evidence:
oany plumbers costs  for unblocking the toilet
any cleaning  contractors  costs for cleaning when  Mr and Ms G moved back 
into their home
consider the damage to the sink. toilet and bath
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN45921404
Ref: DRN4592140