K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB)  wont refund disputed cash withdrawals  made from 
his account. 
Mr M says that fraudulent  withdrawals totalling  £12,450 were made from his TSB account 
between 2 October 2017 and 3 October  2017. 
On 24 September  2017, Mr M contacted TSB to request a new card be sent out to him as he 
had lost his card the previous evening.  At the same time, Mr M also requested  a new PIN. 
TSB advised both the new card and PIN would be received  by Mr M within 5 working days.
Mr M didnt  receive the card as expected and so on 5 October 2017, he went  into branch to 
withdraw some funds and query the non-receipt  of his new card and PIN. A statement  was 
provided to Mr M in branch and at this point he noticed the disputed  transactions  on his 
account.
Mr M said he doesnt recognise the transactions and he didnt  make  them  himself.  He said 
someone must have  intercepted his card and PIN and made  the transactions without his 
authorisation. He thinks TSB has been negligent  in allowing a large cash withdrawal without 
first requesting ID from the person who made  the withdrawal.
TSB said it wont  refund the withdrawals made from Mr Ms account. It said there  are 
multiple inconsistencies in the information Mr M had provided to it when it was completing its 
fraud investigation. It also said Mr M had been unable  to provide sufficient evidence to prove  
that he was the genuine  beneficiary of the funds that had been removed. It said it felt Mr M 
had received his new card and PIN and authorised  someone else to make the withdrawals 
on his behalf.  
background
Below are details of the transactions Mr M disputes, as well as any other  account  activity 
that I think is relevant  to the outcome of this complaint:
what Mr M has said 
Mr M said he doesnt recognise any of the transactions Ive highlighted above.  
Hes told us that on 8 August  2017, a cheque  payment of £15,000 credited his bank account.  
He said this was from the sale of a vehicle. A further  cheque  payment was deposited on 
9 September 2017 for £5,060. Mr M said this payment was from his brother  who was 
returning money that was owed to him.
On 23 September  2017, Mr M moved  a total balance of £17,508.15  into his savings 
account. The next day he reported the card attached to this account  lost and ordered both a 
new card and PIN to be sent to his home address where he lived with his parents and two 
brothers. Mr M was told his card and PIN would be received  by him within five working days.
Ref: DRN40450062Mr M has said his post is usually delivered  directly to his home through a direct  letterbox and 
is usually picked up and placed on a table  within  his home.
On 5 October 2017, having not received  his new card and PIN, Mr M went into branch to 
enquire about when he was likely to receive  them and to withdraw some cash. At the same 
time, Mr M was provided with an account  statement. Upon review  of this statement, Mr M 
was shocked when he realised the balance of his account was significantly lower  than he 
expected. He queried this with the cashier  who confirmed the new card and PIN had been  
used to make the transactions. TSB later looked  at the CCTV footage  from the time the 
withdrawals took place. TSB confirmed the CCTV showed the withdrawals were  made  by 
someone other than Mr M. 
Mr M raised  a fraud claim with TSB and said as it wasnt him who made  the transactions,  
and the CCTV  confirms this. He felt TSB had been  negligent in allowing someone to 
withdraw large sums  of money  from his account  without first providing ID. Mr M said the 
money should be refunded to him.
what TSB has said 
TSB has refused to refund Mr M any of the funds as it feels he authorised someone to make 
the transactions on his behalf.  
It felt there were a number of inconsistencies in what  Mr M had said when  reporting  the 
fraud. For example, Mr M was asked if he had requested  a new PIN when  he reported his 
original card stolen and Mr M said he hadnt.  But when TSB listened  to the call where Mr M 
reported the card lost, it was clear he did request a new PIN be sent out to him. TSB 
questioned why Mr M would need a new PIN number if his previous  card had simply been 
lost.
It said Mr Ms new card and PIN had been sent to the address they held on file for him and 
Mr M had confirmed this address was correct. TSB said the card and PIN were  sent from 
different depots  and it was unlikely that both envelopes had been mis-placed and received 
by the same third party.
TSB said the two large deposits into Mr Ms account before the fraud  took place were 
unusual. And it appeared whoever was using the card knew  there was a substantial  amount 
of money available in the account  there  was no evidence of any balance  enquires before 
the first transaction took place.
TSB also said that it had asked Mr M for proof that he was entitled to the £15,000 that had 
been credited  to the account.  Mr M had told TSB that this was from a recent  sale of a car. 
TSB said there were  inconsistencies in what Mr M had told them about where the funds 
came from - the name on the invoice  for the car did not match the name on the cheque  used 
to deposit the funds,  the car registration  did not seem to exist,  Mr M had no documents to 
prove that he had ever been the owner of the car, and the name  of the dealership  that he 
brought the car from did not match with the account  the funds came from. TSB also pointed  
out that Mr M had previously had a fraud claim upheld with Lloyds.
Mr M didnt  agree with HSBCs decision and he asked us to investigate.
Ref: DRN40450063Our investigator didnt think the complaint should  be upheld. In summary, she felt unable to 
conclude that the transactions had been made  fraudulently  and she was persuaded they 
were most likely authorised by Mr M.
Mr M asked  for the investigators  assessment to be reviewed by an ombudsman,  so the 
complaint has been passed to me to look into.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same  overall  conclusions  
as our investigator previously set out - and for much the same  reasons.
There has been a lot of discussion throughout the course of this complaint about whether 
Mr M was entitled to the funds that were  paid into his account before the fraud took place. 
I will not be looking into this aspect of the complaint further here.  This is because Im not 
minded to tell TSB to return the funds to Mr M. Had I been minded to recommend  TSB 
return the funds,  I would have gone on to consider this point further. But as Im not, I see 
no reason to make a finding on this point  here.    
Ive also reviewed TSBs process  for allowing cash withdrawals. And I can see TSB dont 
need to request identification for cash withdrawals of £4,000 when a chip card and PIN is 
presented. A customer presenting a card and entering the correct  PIN is enough to allow 
a withdrawal  additional  identification is not a requirement. And so I dont  agree  that TSB 
hasnt followed its agreed process here in allowing the withdrawals from the account  
without asking for additional identification.  
authorisation
Generally, TSB can hold Mr M liable for the disputed transactions  if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely  than not that he made them himself or he authorised  someone else to 
make them on his behalf.
Im satisfied from the TSBs technical evidence that Mr Ms genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed  transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not,
on its own, enough to enable TSB to hold Mr M liable. So I also need  to think about  
whether the evidence suggests that its more  likely  than not that Mr M consented to 
the withdrawals being  made.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for TSB to conclude  that Mr M authorised  
someone else to make  the transactions on his behalf. This is because:
The disputed  withdrawals were made  using  Mr Ms genuine  replacement  card and 
replacement PIN. Ive considered the possibility  of both the card and the PIN being  
intercepted by an unknown third party,  but having  done so, I think  this unlikely. Mr Ms 
card and PIN were  sent in separate envelopes  from two separate  depots and whilst its 
possible, and plausible, that one could have gone astray,  I think  its unlikely that both 
envelopes would have gone  astray  and have either  been  delivered to the same,  
Ref: DRN40450064incorrect address, or have  been intercepted by the same person. So I think its more 
likely than not that Mr Ms card and replacement PIN were sent to his home  address 
and received by him. 
Its also unclear why Mr M ordered a new PIN if his previous card had simply been lost. 
There is no evidence to suggest  he thought his PIN may have been compromised.
Ive also considered the possibility that Mr Ms card and PIN were correctly  delivered 
but picked up by someone known to Mr M  someone  who had access  to his post at 
home. I did consider  this a possibility. Someone close  to Mr M may have been aware 
that Mr M had lost his previous card and might have been aware  that he was expecting 
a new one. Mr M has said his post is delivered to his home address and is often left on 
the table for him to pick up. So someone  aware  of this could have  been  monitoring 
Mr Ms post. But having considered this possibility, I dont think this is likely, I say this 
because TSB has provided us with CCTV footage of the person who went into branch 
and completed the transactions. Our investigator sent a still from this footage to Mr M 
and he confirmed  the person in the footage  is unknown  to him. 
The transactions were  allowed because  of the large credits that had been transferred 
into Mr Ms accounts in the days prior.  And there is no evidence  of any balance  
enquires taking  place before the withdrawals  took place.  This indicates that whoever 
was using the card knew there  was a substantial  amount of money available  in the 
account. I think its unlikely someone  using the card without Mr Ms consent wouldve 
known this especially  given that Mr M usually maintained  a very low balance and was 
frequently in his overdraft in the months  prior to this transfer. Having such a large 
balance available was unusual for Mr M.
There were no further attempts to use the card after it had been  cancelled by Mr M and 
there is no persuasive explanation for how a fraudster wouldve known to stop using the 
card. There was still a substantial available balance of around  £4,500  left in the account 
at the point Mr M reported the fraud. And a fraudster will generally remove  all available 
funds over the shortest possible timeframe to maximise their gain before the fraud  is 
identified and the card blocked. But in this case there  were no further attempts  which 
suggest to me that whoever was using the card knew  the account had been  blocked. 
Both Mr M and TSB agree that the person who has been  captured in TSBs  branch  
footage isnt Mr M. But Mr M didnt have  to make  the withdrawals personally  in order  to 
be liable for them under the relevant  rules. He can still be held responsible for them  if 
he authorised the use of his card. So, looking at all the available evidence, I dont think 
the availability of the CCTV footage is enough for me to be as sure as I would need to 
be to say that Mr M wasnt involved.
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance,  that Mr M authorised the disputed 
withdrawals. It follows that HSBC is entitled  to hold him liable for them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Ref: DRN40450065Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4045006