K821x#15complaint
Mrs E complains shes been charged  for damage when she returned  her car at the end of 
the agreement.
background
Mrs E entered into a hire purchase  agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited (VWFS) on 26 May 2015. The car was over two years old and had done  21,000  
miles at the point of sale.
The agreement was voluntarily terminated  and on 16 February 2018 the vehicle was 
inspected for damage on its return. 
The report  highlighted three areas  of damage with estimated  costs  of repair or replacement: 
a dent in the left hand front (LHF) door, £36 repair
a scratch on the right hand front (RHF) door, £21 repair
a gauge in the RHF tyre, £63.23 replacement
Mrs E was also charged £108.04  for excess mileage.  By this time the car had covered 
71,717 miles. Mrs E initially accepted  the excess mileage charge, but I understand that 
VWFS has now made her an offer in relation to this, which she has accepted.  As such, I will 
not comment further on this point.
Mrs E accepted the charges relating  to the LHF dent. But she disputed the charges for the 
tyre gauge and the RHF door scratch.  Mrs E said the tyres  were still legal and the damage  
was only superficial. She also says the RHF door scratches were fair wear and tear, given 
the age and mileage of the vehicle at the point it was returned. 
VWFS said the damage was outside of the British Vehicle  Rental and Leasing  Associations 
(BVRLA)  guidelines on fair wear  and tear and so the charges remained payable. Mrs E 
brought her complaint  to this service.
Our investigator thought the damage to the tyre exceeded the definition of fair wear and tear 
and so he said it was reasonable  for VWFS  to apply this charge. However, our investigator  
thought the charge for the RHF door wasnt fair. He described the damage as door edge 
chipping and pointed  out that the BVRLA  guidelines say that door-edge  chipping  falls within 
fair wear and tear, as long as the whole  panel  doesnt require repainting  or replacement,  
which was the case here.
As such,  our investigator thought VWFS should waive the £21 charge for the scratches on 
the RHF door. He also said VWFS should  remove  any adverse information relating to non-
payment of the charges  connected to this dispute that might have been reported to credit 
reference agencies.
Mrs E accepted the investigators view, but VWFS didnt. So the complaint  was passed to 
me for a decision.
my findings
Ref: DRN43705042Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the recommendations made 
by our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.  Ill explain why, starting with the tyre 
charge.
Mrs E has argued that the tyre tread  was within  the legal limits, and I dont think  this is under 
dispute. However, this is only one aspect of wear or damage that may apply to a tyre. The 
BVRLA guidelines specify that there  must be no damage to the sidewalls of the tyre.
Ive looked at the images that have been  provided  and I can see that the sidewalls are 
damaged. And I dont  think  this falls under the definition  of acceptable wear and tear. So I 
agree with our investigator that its reasonable for VWFS to apply a charge for this. And the 
charge of £63.23 that has been applied seems fair.
Moving on to the RHF door, I can see that VWFS has categorised  this damage as scratches.  
The BVRLA guidance says that scratches and abrasions up to 25mm are acceptable,  
provided they arent deep enough  to reveal the primer or bare metal. Its also important that 
damage is viewed  in the context of the cars  age and mileage.
It seems  that the area of damage on the RHF door is over 25mm.  However,  the BVRLA 
guidance also says that small areas of chipping, including  door edge chipping,  are 
acceptable  as long as the chipping doesnt require the whole panel to be repaired or 
repainted. In this case, the damage does appear to be door edge chipping, and the 
inspection report confirmed that only local repairs were needed.
Furthermore, this car wasnt new when  Mrs E took possession of it, and it is now over five 
years old. So I dont  this its fair to apply the same  standard  that would be used when 
assessing damage to newer cars.
Given all these points, I agree with our investigator  that VWFS should waive the £21 charge 
it has applied for scratches on the RHF door. In support of this, I note that the car is over five 
years old, and the BVRLA guidelines were developed  with newer cars in mind and, as such,  
apply a higher  standard than would typically be used to assess  an older car with greater 
mileage.
Mrs E has maintained that she is willing to settle any outstanding charges  once  her dispute 
is resolved, but was simply waiting for clarification and confirmation. I accept this. As such,  in 
this particular case, I dont think her credit file should  display any associated  non-payment  
charges. Its not apparent that WVFS has recorded  any adverse information  in any case, but 
 as this appears  to be a point of concern for Mrs E  Id like to clarify that any such  records  
that may have been added should be removed  once the outstanding balance is settled.
my final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. Volkswagen Financial  Services  (UK) 
Limited should waive the charge of £21 for the RHF door damage. VWFS should  also 
ensure there are no associated negative records on Mrs Es credit  file once she has paid the 
outstanding charge for the tyres.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Ref: DRN43705043Ellie Clare
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4370504