K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002. Mr
and Miss R say Bank of Scotland  trading as Halifax mis-sold them  the PPI.
Mr and Miss R bought a Total Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP) in 2005. TMPP can be split
into sections  Mortgage Repayments  Cover  (which is a form of PPI), life cover  and critical
illness cover.  Mr and Miss R complained about  the PPI, so Ive looked at the sale of the PPI
cover only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Miss Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr and Miss R aware that the PPI policy  was optional and gain their
consent before adding  the PPI to their mortgage. There  isnt much paperwork available from
the sale of the policy,  but from what we know about  how Halifax sold this type of policy at the
time I think its likely  Halifax  would have  presented  the PPI as optional  and gained Mr and
Miss Rs consent before  adding it to their mortgage.  So, I think Halifax made it clear that Mr
and Miss R didnt have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out.
I think Halifax recommended the PPI policy  to Mr and Miss R, so it had to check  that the PPI
was right for them. Mr and Miss R have  told us they were entitled to sick pay when they took 
the PPI and could have  relied on family to help. But the PPI would have paid out in addition 
to their sick pay, and while their family  would have  wanted to help, circumstances can 
change, and I dont think this offer of help could be guaranteed. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr and Miss Rs circumstances at the time, they werent affected
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for
the cover.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Miss R about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted this type of
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also
looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put
them off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Miss R have  said. But for the reasons explained above 
these points dont  change my decision.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Miss R.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN47445412Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Miss R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 April 2021.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4744541