K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) mis-sold  
her a mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy.
background
Mrs M bought a regular  premium MPPI  policy in January 1998. She purchased  the policy 
during a meeting with an advisor from Halifax in one of its branches. The mortgage  ended in 
October 2001.
Mrs M says she was made to believe she had to have the MPPI policy as a requirement of 
having a mortgage. She also says she had enough  in sick pay at the time and didnt need it. 
She thinks Halifax mis-sold the policy to her.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Ms complaint. As she doesnt  agree with the adjudicators  
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold         
Mrs Ms complaint because of the following reasons:
Halifax has been unable to provide much of the sales documentation that was used  
at the time of sale. There is little information  available and so I cant be sure how the 
policy was presented by an advisor from Halifax to Mrs M during the meeting in 1998 
and Ive not been able to see most of the original  sales documentation (such as the 
agreement or application  form).  So its been difficult for me to consider whether     
Mrs M was given  a choice or not as to whether she should have the MPPI policy (or 
whether it was put across that she had to have it as a requirement of having a 
mortgage).
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Halifax sold these policies  
around this time. And Mrs Ms recollections are not detailed  about what happened  
although this is understandable considering the sale took place many years ago. So, 
with these points  in mind, I cannot fairly  conclude  on this occasion that the policy was 
put across by Halifax as something  Mrs M had to have. I just havent  seen enough  to 
make that conclusion. 
Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the MPPI to Mrs M during the meeting 
and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business,  I will proceed  that this 
was the case.  So as it did recommend  the policy to Mrs M, it had to ensure during the 
sale that the policy was suitable for Mrs Ms needs. 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy  was 
unsuitable for Mrs M based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time.     
Ref: DRN43523852Mrs M says she had 6 months  full and 6 months  half sick pay but the MPPI policy 
would have paid in addition to any provisions  she would  have had and for longer.  So 
the benefit would have  been of use to Mrs M during  a difficult  time as she could have 
used her provisions to pay for other  expenses. I think, on balance, Mrs M had a need 
for this cover  based  on her circumstances at the date of sale, for any extended 
period of unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt  find any other  reason  such as a 
significant or limiting  term that would make the policy unsuitable for her either.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI  policy  
that Mrs M took out but even  though it has provided information  detailing the cover 
and how much it cost, I cannot  be sure that these costs were disclosed  to Mrs M in a 
clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were disclosed clearly I 
dont think Mrs M would  have  done anything different  and decided  against having the 
policy for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being suitable.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs M wouldve been  affected by any of these.
I understand this will come as a disappointment  but in conclusion  I do not uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4352385