K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains about the service hes received from Great  Lakes Insurance SE in relation to 
his motor legal expenses insurance.  
Where I refer to Great Lakes, this includes their agents and claims handlers.  
background 
Mr P had cover for motor legal expenses insurance (LEI) which was an add on to his motor 
insurance policy. The motor LEI was provided by Great Lakes.
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief summary here. In August 2018 Mr P and his wife were  on holiday in Europe and were 
in their vehicle (which is a campervan  / motorhome) when they were approached  by a man. 
This man asked for money  and then attacked  Mr P and his wife. He stole  money  from them 
and in doing so caused them  both injury and damaged  their vehicle. 
Mr P made a claim under  his motor  LEI policy. He wanted to take action in relation to 
personal injury and uninsured losses against the third party  who attacked them  so he 
contacted Great Lakes. Ultimately in September  2018 Great Lakes told him his claim wasnt  
covered as it didnt  have  reasonable prospects  of success which is a requirement under the 
policy. 
Mr P complained, he was also unhappy  with the service hed received in relation  to their 
communication with him. Great Lakes didnt uphold  the complaint.  They  said the claim had 
been correctly  declined and they were satisfied with the level of service theyd provided. 
Being unhappy with this Mr P referred the matter  to our service. Whilst we were 
investigating, a further phone call that Great Lakes hadnt previously been able to identify 
was discovered. In response to this Great Lakes reconsidered their position.  They  accepted 
the service theyd provided could have been better  and offered £100 compensation. And 
they reconsidered and concluded that the claim wasnt covered by the policy at all. They  
highlighted this was explained to Mr P in a call on 17 August 2018. 
Our investigator thought that Great Lakes  hadnt  done enough to show that the claim didnt 
have reasonable prospects of success. But as she agreed the claim wasnt covered by the 
policy, she didnt recommend that they needed  to do more.  She also thought  the 
compensation offered was fair in the circumstances.
Mr P doesnt  accept this and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. I came 
to the same  conclusion as our investigator. But as I introduced  some  additional reasoning,  I 
shared this with Mr P and gave him a further  opportunity to comment.  Now Ive done that I 
can go ahead with my decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint in part. Let me explain why. 
Mr Ps policy  says:
Ref: DRN47584922The insurer will reimburse you in respect of the legal costs incurred in bringing an action 
against a third party in consequence of an event causing:
1.damage to your vehicle;
2.damage to any personal  belongings being  either  inside or on the vehicle;
3.your death or bodily injury whilst you are travelling in or on the vehicle, or getting into 
or out of or on or off the vehicle;
4.any other uninsured  losses
The term vehicle is given  a specific definition in the policy  The vehicle(s) specified  in the 
motor insurance policy  which  was being  driven or ridden by a person entitle to drive  or ride 
it at the time of any event which gives rise to a claim.
I think this can only reasonably be interpreted that the policy  will only provide cover in 
relation to events  that happen when  the vehicle is being driven  or being exited or entered. 
Mr Ps own account of events says that he was parked, stationary with the engine off when 
the attack happened. He also says that he and Mrs P were  intending  to make lunch in their 
vehicle. But they hadnt yet gone into the back of the vehicle to do so.
In these circumstances, I dont think it can fairly be said that the vehicle was being driven at 
the time of the event that gave rise to the claim (the attack / robbery). Mr P disputes this, he 
points out that although  the engine was off, the keys were in the ignition and he was sat in 
the drivers seat.  Ive considered these points. The vehicle was parked and although that 
may not have been the case  for long  overall   I still dont think  it can fairly be said that the 
vehicle was being driven at the time of the incident. 
There is a further indication that cover  is only available for motoring related incidents (rather  
than the criminal act that took place)  elsewhere  in the policy.  The term opponent in relation 
to any legal action  that might  be taken under the policy  is defined  as the third party 
responsible for the accident or collision  This is what Great Lakes relied upon to say that a 
claim must be as a result of an accident or collision. I dont think  being  attacked and robbed 
as Mr and Mrs P were, can reasonably be described as either an accident  or a collision. 
Taking all the circumstances of this complaint  into consideration, I think  Great Lakes are 
being reasonable in concluding that Mr Ps claim isnt one the policy  provides  cover for. This 
is the case irrespective  of whether or not the claim has reasonable prospects of success. 
And whilst Great Lakes  could have maintained that the claim wasnt covered sooner, rather  
than progressing to assess the prospects, I dont think this has caused  a detriment to Mr P. 
I dont doubt the impact  the attack  has had on Mr P and his wife. Suffering injuries, a loss 
and having to arrange repairs,  all whilst overseas must have been a very tough time. And 
beyond that managing multiple insurance  claims and assisting  in the prosecution  of the 
offender would  all have added to this. 
So even if things had gone perfectly with Great Lakes, it would still likely have been a difficult  
time. I have to, as far as is possible,  isolate the distress  and inconvenience  caused by 
Great Lakes.  
Great Lakes have accepted that the service they provided couldve been better and have 
offered £100 compensation.  So all that remains  for me to decide is whether or not that is a 
fair amount in the circumstances.  On balance, I think  it is. I dont think  the service provided 
has made a difference to the outcome of the claim. And I remain  of the opinion that £100 is a 
Ref: DRN47584923fair and appropriate  amount of compensation for the impact  of the service failings that Great  
Lakes are responsible  for. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Unless theyve already done so, Great Lakes Insurance SE must  pay Mr P £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused by their handling of his claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4758492