K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Miss W says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Miss W told us she thought the PPI was sold to her during a telephone call. But Halifax has 
shown us a copy  of the application form for the credit card. I can see its the type of 
application that would have been  completed at a branch. So I think Miss W applied  for the 
credit card and was sold the PPI during a meeting at a branch.
Halifax has shown us a copy of the credit  card application signed by Miss W in 2001. I can 
see the application form contains  a section about PPI. I note a box has been  marked with a 
cross to add PPI to the account. 
The cross was printed  on the application form and Ive thought about this. The application 
form contains details  of Miss Ws circumstances at the time. So I think the form was likely 
completed during  a discussion, then printed and passed to Miss W to check  and sign.  I think 
its likely  the PPI was discussed and accepted by Miss W during this conversation. 
I also note the PPI remained on the account for over three  years  and the premiums  would  
have appeared  on Miss Ws monthly  statements. If Miss W had not agreed to the PPI, or 
didnt want it, Id expect  her to have  questioned  it at an early  stage.  But Ive not see any 
evidence that she did so.
Overall I think  Halifax made it clear that Miss W didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this after so many 
years.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss W so it had to check that the PPI was right for her 
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover. 
Miss W has told us shed  receive full sick pay from her employer for up to six months  
followed by half pay for a further  six months.  But the PPI couldve paid a monthly benefit for 
up to 12 months if Miss W couldnt work. And the benefit would be paid in addition  to any 
sick pay. So I still think Miss W would find the policy useful if she became unwell, particularly 
if she was unable to work  for a prolonged period.
The PPI would also have  paid a monthly benefit  if Miss W had lost her job. 
Ref: DRN46004222Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Miss W off 
taking out the cover.  
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss W paid for it. But Halifax has already paid Miss W back  some of the cost of the PPI.        
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4600422