K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that Santander UK Plc failed  to action her request to transfer her ISA to 
another provider  and that she therefore  lost the ISA protection on her money.
background
Mrs G held a fixed-term  investment which was due to mature  on 9 January 2019. Santander 
sent out a maturity pack in November 2018  which set out the options available. It said 
clients instructions needed  to be received by 24 December 2018. Mrs G chose to transfer 
her ISA to a new provider,  and it took responsibility  for sending in her instructions/form, 
which it posted on 21 December.
Santander said the form wasnt received in time - but on 31 December, a week after the 
deadline - and it wasnt fully/correctly completed. It said the form wrongly stated this was a 
Cash ISA to Stocks & Shares ISA transfer. Given this, it processed the default option of 
transferring the proceeds to a savings  account on 11 January 2019. This meant the ISA 
protection was lost.
It accepted that a member of staff had wrongly  told the proposed  new provider that shed 
received the paperwork on 22 December and that it was all in order.  But it said this error 
didnt impact on the situation  because the deadline  had been the 21st and nothing  arrived  till 
31 December, well past the deadline. It said the new provider  called on 8 January 2019,  
towards the end of the working day, half an hour before Mrs Gs ISA matured so it was too 
late to sort things out. It maintained that Mrs G and/or the proposed new provider  were  to 
blame for the late submission and the incorrect information.
An investigator at this service didnt  feel that Santander had done anything wrong.
She noted that by the time the proposed  new provider sent the form it was always unlikely 
this would arrive by the Monday, 24 December deadline. She felt Santander was entitled to 
set this deadline given it expected to receive a high volume of instructions,  and that this was 
something within its commercial remit to decide  upon. Given this, it was required to exercise  
the default option route.
Mrs Gs representative did not agree, and said:
The law states that compliance is from the date of posting;  not when someone says 
they receive it i.e. Exercising a cancellation right - A client can exercise a 
cancellation right by serving notice on the provider by post or in any other manner the 
provider states  is acceptable. The right is only valid if served on the provider [or its 
AR) within the time limit but if sent by post it is treated as served when posted, not 
when received
Legislation is a subject that Santander  consistently ignore, they are a Spanish  Bank  
and think they are above the law and can therefore  do anything they want. He has 
had to go to the FCA on a previous  occasion re the processing of credits and debits
The proposed  new provider has a phone recording of Santander stating, That  they 
have the all the correct paperwork and the transfer  will follow at maturity
Ref: DRN42401492Santander further tried to muddy the waters by saying that a Structured Product 
Investment is cash while the rest of the industry treats  it as an investment
The paperwork was replaced before  maturity,  and acknowledged, but not actioned. 
Irrespective of whether  the paperwork was updated,  Santander had a clear  client  
instruction for the money to be moved  to her platform account
Since it acknowledged it had all the required paperwork in early  January and was 
about to transfer  the proceeds  to the new provider someone clearly fouled  up and is 
now trying  to throw as many  red herrings as possible to defend a ridiculous position 
rather than just fix the error
From  a regulators  point of view, one must  question why an ISA wrapper  was 
removed; it could  just as easily have been retained  as a Cash ISA rather  than being  
dumped into an ordinary bank account.  Where  is Treating the Customers Fairly in 
that action?
Where does Santander acquire the legal  right to dispense with any ISA wrapper? It is 
a right of all UK citizens to use an annual  ISA allowance each and every  year to build 
up Tax Efficient Savings. How does an organisation, rather than a client  or HMRC. 
have the right to remove it?
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons. I am also satisfied  that 
she addressed all of Mrs Gs points and therefore  dont feel its useful to simply repeat these.
In essence, Santander was entitled to set a deadline for ISA transfers and to decide  on what  
default option to use if customers did not respond  by that deadline. From what  Ive read, it 
explained this in clear and transparent language.
I dont accept Mrs Gs representatives view about  the legal position concerning the status of 
a letter  being  posted. Clearly, banks  and other  businesses can only act on a clients 
instructions when they are received. So, for example, it can only buy or sell an investment, 
and at a price available at that time, when it receives  instructions to do so.
Crucially, my role  and that of this service  is not to make definitive  judgements  about 
consumer law but to decide what is and was fair and reasonable. In this case  I am satisfied 
that Santander behaved fairly and reasonably. From what  Ive read,  Mrs G may wish to 
consider making  a complaint about  the proposed  new provider if she feels  it did not act 
promptly. But as I do not know the full story I cannot  say whether any such  complaint is likely 
to be successful.
  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Ref: DRN42401493Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4240149