K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited, trading as Sunny, lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr R took out eight instalment loans with Sunny between October 2016 and March 2017. At 
the outset, the loans  were repayable in six, monthly  repayments.  Mr R repaid loans one to 
six. In June 2017, Sunny sold the balances  outstanding on loans seven and eight  to a third 
party. A summary of Mr Rs borrowing from Sunny is as follows:   
date £ amount 
borroweddate repaid
129 October 2016 450 5 November 2016
217 November 2016 450 15 December 2016
37 January 2017 450 30 January 2017
414 January 2017 150 27 January 2017
54 February 2017 200 13 February 2017
616 February 2017 50 24 February 2017
726 February 2017 400
83 March 2017 150
Mr R says that he couldnt afford to repay  these  loans. He says that Sunny  didnt  undertake 
proper affordability  checks. Mr R wants compensation and interest and mis-sold  loans 
removed from his credit report.
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Rs complaint. She said that Sunny shouldnt have 
given Mr R loans seven  and eight. 
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicator.  It said:
Mr R could afford  to repay these loans.
It charged Mr R interest for less than eight  months.
Before lending  to Mr R, it enquired  about  his income and all his expenses, including 
any short-term loans.
Mr R repaid all the loans early.
It uses information  provided by the customer and from credit reference agencies  in 
assessing every application.  
As there was no agreement between the parties, Mr Rs complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
Ref: DRN48115102my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr R could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr R could  sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. Of 
course, the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
I dont think that Sunny  was wrong  to give Mr R loans one to six. Given the repayment 
amounts, what was apparent about Mr Rs circumstances at the time and his history with the 
lender at that point, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask Mr R for the 
amount of information  needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt  anything  
in the information Mr R provided or the information  Sunny shouldve been aware of, which 
meant it wouldve  been proportionate for it to start verifying what Mr R said.  
Ref: DRN48115103Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr R, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Rs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
seven. I say this because by then, Mr R had taken  out six loans in approaching four months 
with very little break. Hed borrowed from Sunny  and repaid the loans multiple times by loan 
seven. Whilst the amounts Mr R borrowed fluctuated, loan seven was for a similar  amount  
that he borrowed initially. So, Mr R had seven loans  over a period of several months  and 
paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, borrow and repay  a debt to Sunny. 
I think that Mr R lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan seven 
onwards because the number of loans may have had negative  implications on Mr Rs ability  
to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans seven  and eight and Sunny should put things 
right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr R paid on loans seven and eight;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan seven onwards means  any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans seven  and eight should be removed 
from Mr Rs credit  file once the capital sums he borrowed for those loans have  been  
repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
Mr R didnt fully repay  these loans and the outstanding debts have now been  sold to a third 
party. I dont know whether Mr R has repaid any of those debts to the third party. 
It seems  reasonable that if Mr R still owes some of the capital  he borrowed, part of the 
refund due to him should be used  to repay  that debt. But to do so, Sunny must first take the 
debts back into its own books and reduce  them to reflect just the capital that Mr R borrowed. 
Once it has recovered the capital Mr R borrowed, any remaining compensation should be 
paid directly to Mr R. 
If Sunny is unable, or unwilling,  to repurchase the debts within four weeks  of Mr R accepting 
my decision,  it must ensure that all its interest and charges added to these loans  and any 
other interest and charges  added by the third party,  are refunded to Mr R, so he can choose 
whether to use the compensation  to settle his debts directly. 
Ref: DRN48115104my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Rs complaint  in part. 
Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, should pay Mr R compensation as set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4811510