K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank Plc reduced  the credit limit and increased the interest rate 
on his credit card account without  notice.
To settle  matters hed like his credit limit reinstating and an apology.
background
I recently issued my provisional  decision a copy of which  is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In my provisional decision  I set out the events leading up to this complaint and 
why I wasnt minded to uphold  it.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  information before I reached a final decision.
Mr A hasnt provided any further evidence for my consideration. Lloyds  has responded to my 
provisional decision but confirmed it didnt have  any further comments  it wished to provide.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments for my consideration I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN48883992Copy of Provisional  Decision
complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC reduced the credit  limit and increased the interest rate on his 
credit card account without notice.
To settle  matters hed like his credit limit reinstating and an apology.
background
Mr A is unhappy that Lloyds  didnt  notify him before it increased the interest rate on his credit card in 
December 2018 and decreased his credit limit in February 2019.  Mr A says Lloyds  failed to keep him 
informed and theyve said letters were sent when they werent. Hes also concerned that now his 
credit limit has been reduced, his outstanding balance is very close to his credit limit.
He also believes Lloyds hasnt complied  with Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA) rules   which 
require businesses to contact customers whove made low repayments over a long period and 
prompt them  to change their repayment plan. And he says that during a telephone call he had 
with Lloyds,  Lloyds told him it wasnt required to comply with these rules.
Mr A complained  to Lloyds in February 2019. Lloyds  didnt uphold his complaint. It said the interest 
rate on his account  increased when  his promotional rate came to an end. And it said it was able to 
reduce Mr As credit  limit without warning in accordance with the terms and conditions  of his credit 
card account.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr A brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that Mr As complaint should  be upheld.
She thought  Lloyds had done enough to let him know the promotional period was ending  because  
the credit card statements shed  seen showed he had a promotional rate and gave details that it 
would end in early  December 2018.
She noted that in accordance with the terms and conditions Lloyds could reduce Mr As credit limit. 
And she could see that Lloyds  had notified  Mr A of this in its letter to him sent in February  2019.
In terms  of breach of FCA rules  she explained  that Lloyds hadnt been able to provide a copy  of the 
call Mr A referred to. But in any event she noted that Lloyds had written  to him in mid November  2018 
to suggest he should increase his payment, if was able to. So she felt Lloyds had done what  it 
needed to in any event.
Mr A disagrees with the investigators  view.  He says he never received  the text or letter referred to by 
the investigator. He thinks the investigator  has believed Lloyds and not him. And he re-iterates  that 
Lloyds never  gave him notice of the increase in his rate of interest or reduction in credit limit. He also 
says Lloyds  final response letter doesnt  mention that it sent him a text message  either. Mr A has 
asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mr A thinks the investigator is biased in favour of Lloyds. So Id like to reassure  him that 
were an independent and impartial service  and Ive considered carefully  everything both parties  
have said.
Ref: DRN48883993increase in interest rate
The terms  and conditions of Mr As account require Lloyds to notify him before any promotional  
offers expire . I can see that Mr As credit card statements for March 2018 to December  2018 give 
a breakdown of the interest applied to his credit card balance. Under the heading breakdown of 
balance each statement gives details  of the promotional rate and the date on which the 
promotional rate will end. So Im satisfied Lloyds  did enough  to notify Mr A when his promotional 
offer would expire.
I realise Mr A says he never received a text sent by Lloyds in November 2018 in which it 
explained that his promotional rate was due to expire in early  December 2018. The information 
Lloyds sent to this service  shows the text was sent successfully.  But, even if Mr A never received 
the text, I still think Lloyds did enough to notify him when his promotional offer would come to an 
end because  itd already  given prior notification in the statements it sent to him as I explained  
above.
I think Lloyds also gave  advance notice of the interest rate that would  apply when  the promotional 
rate came  to end. Thats because  the terms and conditions provide  that interest will be charged at 
Lloyds standard rate on any remaining  balance after the end of a promotional offer period.
decrease in credit limit
The terms  and conditions allow Lloyds to decrease Mr As credit limit. Section B8 says that where a 
change is made to a customers disadvantage Lloyds  must give 30 days notice. Ive seen a pro 
forma letter Lloyds sent to Mr A in February 2019. The letter explained that Mr As credit limit was 
being reduced  and the change was to take effect  straightaway. Im satisfied that as the reduction in 
Mr As credit  limit took effect immediately, Lloyds failed  to give 30 days advance  notice as it was 
required to do.
Although Lloyds made an error  by not giving  30 days advance  notice of the reduction in   Mr As 
credit limit I wont  be asking  it to do anything  further  to put matters right. I dont consider it appropriate 
to award  compensation because I cant see that Mr A has been impacted or lost out financially. I 
realise Mr As worried that the reduction in his credit limit means his outstanding  balance is close to 
his credit limit but I have seen anything to suggest that Mr A actually exceeded  his credit limit as a 
result of not receiving advance notice of the reduction in his credit limit.
I realise Mr A says he never received this letter but I think its more  likely  than not it was sent because 
Lloyds has provided information to show the standard letters  generated and sent on Mr As account.  
And even  if the letter wasnt sent Ive explained above that I cant  see that Mr A has been impacted  
as a result of the mistake  or lost out financially.
FCA issues
Mr A is understandably concerned that Lloyds hasnt been able to provide a copy of a telephone 
conversation in which  Lloyds told him it doesnt need to comply  with FCA rules  about  persistent 
debt. But sometimes a business doesnt provide all the information wed like. So we reach our 
decisions based on the information we have.
As Ive not been provided  with the call recording I cant comment on what was discussed. And 
neither can I make  a finding as to whether  or not Lloyds  complied with the rules   because  thats 
a matter for the FCA.
But Lloyds has provided information about standard pro forma letters it sent to Mr A. These include 
several letters  in which it noted that hed only been making only minimum  payments. The letters 
explained that it would take him longer  to clear his debt and would cost more in interest.  It also 
Ref: DRN48883994suggested he should increase his payments, if he was able. Based on the information Ive seen Im 
satisfied Lloyds treated Mr A fairly here.
I realise my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr A and Id invite him to make any further 
comments before  I reach a final decision.
my provisional  decision
Ill consider any further comments by the date I referred to above. But unless  anything changes my 
mind, for the reasons given  above my provisional is that I dont  intend to uphold this complaint.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4888399