K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mrs U says Canada  Square Operations Limited (Canada Square), trading as Egg, 
mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Us case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Canada Square made  it clear  that Mrs U didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this. 
Canada Square  has said the PPI was sold over the internet and has given us examples  
of pages it says Mrs U wouldve seen when she completed her online application.  I can 
see Mrs U wouldve  had the choice  of either  ticking a yes box to buy the PPI or a no 
box to decline it. Canada  Square  has said Mrs U wouldnt have been able to proceed 
with her application unless she chose one of these options. Looking  at Canada Squares  
internal records, it shows Mrs U selected the yes box to confirm she wanted the PPI.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs U so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs U got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave  Mrs U about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put her off taking 
out the cover. 
Which means Canada Square doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs U.
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs U because: 
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs U about that. Because  Canada  Square didnt 
tell Mrs U, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs U has said - including  what shes  said about her sick pay 
benefits with her employer. Mrs U said she would have received six months full sick pay 
followed by six months  half sick pay if she was too ill to work and said she had some saving 
Ref: DRN46029082she could have relied on. But this policy could have paid out in addition to any sick pay and 
saving might have had and I note her sick pay would have reduced  significantly after six 
months. So these  points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs U.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mrs U any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Jag Dhuphar 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4602908