complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr E says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS),  trading  as Halifax,  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
BoS says it doesnt  know  how the PPI was sold, but its treated this as a branch sale.  Mr E 
says the PPI was sold to him online and hes been  consistent in his evidence about this 
point. Also, our adjudicator assessed  this as an internet sale  and neither party  responded 
to dispute this. So Ive also considered this as in internet sale.   
Unfortunately due to the length of time since the policy was sold, there isnt any evidence 
available from the time.  So Ive considered what both parties have said in order to come to a 
decision on what I think it more likely to have happened. 
Mr E says it wasnt  made clear  to him that the policy  was optional. But he hasnt given us 
any specific information about what happened  during  the sale that made him feel like he 
didnt have a choice about the policy. While I think what Mr E has said are his honest  
recollections of the sale, Ive also had to keep in mind  that these events took place a long 
time ago - around 19 years ago. So its difficult to rely on what  little Mr E has said alone to 
conclude that something untoward happened.  
On the other hand, BoS says it wouldve presented  the PPI as optional  and wouldve only 
added the policy to Mr Es account upon  his request.  And I think thats likely to have been 
the case. So on the balance of probabilities, and without any evidence to support what Mr E 
has said, Im not persuaded that the PPI wasnt presented  as optional or that it was added 
without Mr Es consent. So I cant fairly and reasonably uphold the complaint on this point.
Mr E cant  remember if he was advised to take out the policy  or not. BoS doesnt know  if it 
recommended the policy  - but its willing to treat this as a recommended  sale.  As things 
stand, there  isnt enough information to determine  this point. But being  able to do so isnt 
crucial to the outcome because, had BoS recommended the policy,  I think  it wouldve been a 
suitable recommendation to have made for the reasons I set out below. As a result,  Ive 
considered the complaint on the same basis as BoS.
As an advised sale BoS needed to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for Mr E  and based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. I say this because he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover.  Mr E says he had sick 
pay from his employer so the policy wasnt needed.  But the PPI couldve paid out 10% of his 
outstanding monthly  balance  (up to £1000 a month)  for up to 12 months in the event he was 
off sick or made redundant. And this wouldve been  in addition to his sick pay and potentially 
for longer. So I think he had a need  for the cover and I dont think his sick pay entitlement 
meant the policy wasnt suitable for him.     
Ref: DRN49854732Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr E about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E. But BoS has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr E because:  
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr E about that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr E, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr E. 
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr E any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4985473