K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that due to the poor service  he received from Legal & General Assurance  
Society Limited (L&G)  he was unable to combine  two personal pensions by his selected 
retirement date. 
background
Mr R held two pension  plans with L&G. His intended retirement date was January 2019 for 
one of his pension plans. The other plan had a retirement date of 2024.  Legal and General 
sent out the initial information pack for the plan with a January 2019 retirement date in early  
September 2018. It sent the pack to the UK address it held for Mr R.
It appears that Mr R had moved overseas, but had not notified L&G of his new address. In 
November 2018  Mr R contacted L&G and provided his new address.
In early December 2018 Mr R told L&G that he wanted to transfer a pension pot he held with 
another provider  to L&G. It said one the pension plans Mr R held with it couldnt accept the 
transfer, and there would be charges  involved if he wanted to transfer the pension  pot to his 
other L&G plan.  Mr R replied on 21 December 2018 to say that, in view of the costs involved,  
he didnt want to go ahead with the transfer. 
L&G also said that it needed to verify Mr Rs new address. It gave Mr R a list of documents  it 
could accept to verify  his address. But it didnt  specifically say that the documents,  such as 
utility bills, would need to be in English, and have a recent date. 
Providing verification  of his address in English caused Mr R some  difficulty  as he was living 
overseas. The only document  he was able to provide was from HMRC. Initially L&G said this 
was acceptable  before realising the document wasn't dated.
It appears that L&G later agreed to accept the letter from HMRC  as proof  of Mr Rs new 
address in view of the difficult he would have providing alternative documents  written  in 
English.
In order carry out Mr Rs instructions to set up an annuity L&G asked him to complete a risk 
warning questionnaire. This questionnaire  was sent by post rather than email. As Mr R is 
overseas this further delayed things. L&G explained that the questionnaire was necessary to 
meet regulatory requirements. It received Mr Rs completed questionnaire on 28 December 
2018. Unfortunately the form was not fully completed. L&G wrote to Mr R that day asking for 
the missing information.
It appears Mr R asked  for guidance  on completing  the form and this caused  a further delay.
L&G then sent a retirement options  pack to Mr R on 3 January 2019, for one of his pension 
plans. Mr R had to request a pack for his other pension plan.
Mr R complained about the service he had received from L&G.
It apologised  for the poor service it had provided and offered to pay Mr R £125.  It then 
increased this offer to £175.
Mr R was not satisfied  with L&Gs response and brought his complaint  to this service.  Our 
investigator said that she agreed the level of service  he had received was below the 
Ref: DRN42386652standard he could  reasonably have expected. But said she thought  that the £175 L&G had 
offered was fair in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Mr R said he was willing to accept the £175 for the poor service,  but he said L&G had also 
delayed paying  his annuity  and he wanted it to compensate him for this delay.
Our investigator explained that she wasnt able to look into any delays after 21 January 2019 
as Mr R hadnt raised these with L&G.
Mr R said he wanted this service to look into all the delays he had experienced and he 
wanted to be compensated for the delay in setting  up his annuity.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Rs position  and I have carefully considered all he has said about  the 
delays and poor service  he received from L&G.
I note that since Mr R first raised  his complaint with L&G he has also raised concerns that it 
unnecessarily delayed paying  his annuity. 
In his email to this service  dated  September 2019 Mr R said:
...I do not understand why Legal and General  refused to pay my pension until the end of 
March, when they could have accepted the documents  3 months earlier  and given me my 
pension at originally  agreed date.
I think it would be nice if Legal  and General paid me the two and a half months  pension  they 
stole.
That, plus the £175 for phone calls and registered mail and my time, comes to approximately  
£925.
I asked L&G whether it had backdated Mr Rs annuity payment. It said:
We have not backdated  payments as we do not believe that we have done anything wrong 
with regards to delaying the payment of Mr Rs annuity. As already confirmed, when 
documents were  received we always  actioned  them or communicated  with the customer 
within a reasonable time scale. The payment we have made to the customer  was for the 
trouble caused  due to the address and ID issues, not for any delays.
Unfortunately I cant consider this part of Mr Rs complaint any further  until L&G has had the 
opportunity to look into it and respond to Mr R. 
This is because the issues Mr R has raised  about the late payment of his annuity were  
brought after L&G issued a final response  to his complaint.  As our investigator explained, if 
Mr R remains  unhappy about the delay in setting up and paying  his annuity he needs to 
raise this directly with L&G. If he is not satisfied with its response  he is, of course,  free to 
refer the matter to this service. 
I do understand that this is frustrating for Mr R, but I am required to let L&G look into this 
aspect of his complaint  before this service can consider it.
Ref: DRN42386653With regard to the service  Mr R received from L&G up to 21 January 2019, it is not in dispute  
that the service  he received was not satisfactory. 
I think L&G caused Mr R unnecessary trouble and upset when it gave conflicting information  
about what it would accept as confirmation of Mr Rs new address. It also sent documents  to 
Mr R by post when   given he is living overseas  email would have a quicker method of 
communication. But I dont think L&G caused any unnecessary delays when responding to 
Mr R about the pension pot he wanted  to transfer  to it.
Like our investigator I think the £175  L&G has offered to pay Mr R for its poor service up to 
21 January 2019  is fair and reasonable. I dont think it needs  to do any more to resolve  this 
aspect of Mr Rs complaint.
my final decision
Having carefully considered this matter my final decision is that Legal & General Assurance 
Society Limited should pay Mr R the £175 it has already  offered to resolve his complaint 
about the poor service he received up to late January 2019. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4238665