K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that he took out insurance  through CIS General Insurance  Limited  and was 
promised vouchers instead  of points, which he never received.
background
In February 2016  Mr V bought his home  insurance with CIS General Insurance Limited. As 
part of that he was told he would receive membership points and on renewal in 2017 was 
told he would receive 750 points. Mr V understood that as the membership voted against 
giving dividends he wouldnt receive  any benefit  from those points. He says he was told he 
would receive £50 in vouchers instead but hasnt received those. 
CIS advised him that he did receive the points  but that any discussions over dividends  or 
vouchers took place  with its membership service which was a completely separate company. 
It was explained  that the £50 voucher incentive was for new customers buying  combined 
buildings and contents insurance. Mr V only bought  buildings insurance.
On referral to this service  our investigator  upheld  the complaint  pointing out that in 
September 2016 the matter had been transferred back to membership services for it to 
reissue any good will vouchers. So CIS should  pay Mr V £50 worth of vouchers.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that CIS wasnt responsible for any offer to issue  
vouchers instead  of points. And that any activity by the membership services didnt come 
within our jurisdiction.
Mr V said he had no new evidence to put to us. CIS made no further comment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Mr V says that he was awarded membership  points but as no dividend  was declared he 
didnt receive any benefit  from them. He insists  that he was told he could have £50 of 
vouchers instead.
Its not very clear what happened here.  Mr V says his complaint is about  the 2017  renewal 
when he was awarded 750 points. One of the call recordings we have concerns just that. But 
the call in which the discussion over the points took place was in September 2016.  So it 
appears that Mr Vs concerns about transfer of points into vouchers took place around  that 
date.
We have jurisdiction to consider a complaint when a business is carrying out a regulated  
activity. In the case of insurance the activity  is effecting (selling or putting in place a policy) 
or carrying out (dealing with a claim) a contract  of insurance.
CIS said as part of the policy  hed get 750 points  in Feb 2017. I havent seen any evidence  
that the membership  points were advertised by CIS as an incentive to buy a policy, or that 
any dividend  payment was promised. In the renewal  phone  call Mr V enquired  whether he 
Ref: DRN45633902would get points and it was confirmed  he would get 750 points. I understand this applies to 
all purchases of insurance from CIS.
So, in connection with the sale of the policy Mr V was awarded points. He was under the 
impression those points  would be converted into vouchers but no promise was made about 
that by CIS. As is clear  from the promotional literature a £50 voucher is offered but only 
when combined  contents and buildings  insurance are bought. I understand Mr V only 
purchased buildings insurance.  It may be that this is where the confusion  arises.
The September 2016 note just says the matter would be referred back to membership 
services to reissue any goodwill vouchers.  No such offer came from CIS and its clear that 
it knew nothing about any such vouchers.
From CISs point of view, the policy is issued and points  are awarded each year which is 
what happened here. I know the insurance and membership are part of an overall brand, but 
they do act separately. So if membership services had told Mr V it would issue  vouchers, I 
dont think that had anything to do with the sale of the insurance. As that isnt part of a 
regulated activity I have  no power to consider a complaint about the membership service.
So as I dont think CIS was responsible for any offer to issue  vouchers instead of points and 
as the activity here by the membership services doesnt come within our jurisdiction, I dont 
uphold the complaint.
As neither party has any further comment to make, my provisional findings are now final and 
form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4563390