K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that Metro Bank PLC wont refund a payment he made. 
background 
In January 2019, Mr S says his wife applied online to a be a model  with a company Ill call 
G. He says G responded  to the application saying his wife might be suitable for the job and 
he paid a £50 deposit to book a test shoot at Gs studio. 
In early February, Mr S attended the photo shoot with his wife. He says after the shoot a 
representative of G explained that Mr S wife was right for the job and could earn up to 
£2,000 per modelling job. This would include all expenses paid international travel  for 
various modelling work. 
Mr S says that G showed them  a price list for various different portfolio options,  which  his 
wife would need in order to get the guaranteed  modelling work. Mr S says they were 
pressured into taking  out the premium package at a cost of £2,000 as they were told G 
would select a different  model for their paid work if they didnt sign up there and then. 
G agreed to accept a £600 deposit  which Mr S paid using his Metro Bank debit card.  The 
remainder would be collected in instalments by direct debit. 
Mr S says he signed a contract with G, but he hasnt been  able to provide a copy  of the 
paperwork. He says the contract was for an online portfolio of pictures that were  taken 
during the photoshoot. He said he was told the portfolio was required  in order to guarantee 
future modelling work. 
Mr S says he started researching  G online the following day and found many  reports  of 
people being  scammed into entering into modelling  contracts which didnt exist. Mr S 
contacted Metro Bank to try and recover  the £600  he paid and to stop G from collecting the 
rest of the money by direct debit. He explained  to Metro Bank that his English wasnt very 
good and hed struggled to understand what G had told him and his wife. 
Metro Bank  said it couldnt stop the payment from being taken but it could consider a 
chargeback once it had debited. It asked Mr S to send in an explanation of what  had 
happened. Mr S sent a detailed summary of the events by email  the following  day. 
A few weeks  later Metro  Bank told Mr S it couldnt proceed with the claim.  It explained  that 
as Mr S authorised the transaction and received the photoshoot there were no valid grounds 
to dispute the transaction. It said Mr S had signed  a contract with G and it was therefore a 
civil dispute between  him and G. 
Mr S complained to Metro  Bank  about the outcome it had reached. Metro  Bank  said it had 
followed the correct  process but offered him £50 compensation  for the poor way it had 
handled his chargeback claim. 
G collected one further payment from Mr S account by direct  debit but this was returned to 
him through  the direct debit indemnity guarantee. Mr S closed his account after that to 
prevent any further  money being  taken.  
I sent Mr S and Metro  Bank my provisional  decision on 6 November 2020.  I explained  why 
I thought the complaint should  be upheld in part. I said:
Ref: DRN49760112As Mr S paid for the goods and services using  his debit card and wanted a refund, Ive 
thought about whether Metro Bank dealt with his request fairly. 
The chargeback process  is relevant in this case.  This is a way in which  payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants.  They  are dealt with under the 
relevant card scheme  rules. In certain  circumstances  the process provides a way for Metro 
Bank to ask for a payment Mr S made to be refunded. Those circumstances include where  
goods or services  arent supplied or as described  by the company Mr S paid. 
A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund. Gs bank could put forward a defence  to any 
chargeback claim. If the chargeback is defended,  Metro  Bank  could pursue the chargeback 
further and ultimately  ask the card scheme  provider to arbitrate on the outcome. 
There isnt an obligation on Metro Bank  to raise a chargeback  even if Mr S asks for one. But 
I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted  where the right exists  and 
there is a reasonable prospect of success. Here Metro Bank didnt attempt  a chargeback  at 
all, so Ive thought about whether it acted fairly in not doing  so. 
Metro Bank  has given two reasons for why it didnt feel a chargeback could be made. The 
first was because Mr S authorised the transaction with his card and PIN number. The 
second, was because it says he signed a contract agreeing to what he would receive and if 
he didnt get what  was promised it was a civil dispute between him and the retailer and not 
something Metro Bank could interfere with. Im disappointed  that Metro  Bank  responded in 
this way. Mr S made it clear hed been  the victim of a scam and Metrobank did have an 
option to use the chargeback scheme despite  Mr S authorising the transaction  and signing a 
contract.
Ive reviewed the relevant card scheme rules and there are a number of different chargeback 
categories or codes  that can be used depending on the nature of the dispute. Here it seems  
the most  relevant code was Goods or Services Were Either  Not as Described or Defective. 
Each chargeback code  has its own set of requirements that need to be met in order  for a 
chargeback right to exist and for it to have any prospect of success. I would expect  Metro  
Bank as the scheme member to have understood the various requirements under the 
chargeback rules and advised Mr S of what he needed to provide  in order for a chargeback 
to be attempted.
Metro Bank  appears  to accept Mr S has likely been  the victim of a scam, and ordinarily  in 
those circumstances  it ought to have robustly pursued the chargeback process  as far as it 
could. However, Ive also considered that the chargeback process had specific  requirements  
under each code  which  would need  to be met in order for it to have a reasonable prospect of 
succeeding. If they werent, the merchant (or its bank) would  have been  entitled to defend 
the chargeback  on the basis that the basic requirements of the chargeback code hadnt been 
met.
One of the requirements under the relevant chargeback code  were  that Mr S needed to first 
attempt to resolve his dispute with the merchant. And where goods were  provided, he 
needed to attempt to return those goods or to have told the merchant they were  available  for 
collection. 
Mr S doesnt  appear to have ever done either  of these things (or confirm that he had).  Its not 
clear whether he did receive any goods, although  generally from what weve seen in similar 
Ref: DRN49760113cases consumers are provided a CD with their photos on. In any event, Mr S doesnt appear 
to have attempted to resolve his concerns with G first, nor does it appear he gave them the 
opportunity to provide the services he says he was promised before asking Metro Bank for a 
refund. So I dont think it was clear  that the goods  and/or services were not as described.  
Ive thought about whether the reason Mr S didnt provide the required level of detail about  
any goods he received or his attempts at resolving things with G because  of confusion  
caused by the way Metro Bank  handled  things. Ive also thought about whether there was 
enough within what Mr S had told Metro Bank to allow it to raise  the chargeback in any 
event. 
Ive listened to several calls Mr S made  to Metro Bank and he was given  incorrect  or 
misleading information about what would  happen with his chargeback  request and why it 
may or may not succeed. Clearly things went wrong when it came to communicating with Mr 
S about the chargeback process. 
However, I can see that Metro Bank did eventually write out to Mr S asking  him to provide 
evidence that hed done the things Ive set out above (in this case, evidence of contact with 
the merchant  and that hed attempted to return the goods or make them available  for 
collection) so Im satisfied it eventually requested the correct information from Mr S in a clear 
manner. 
Unfortunately, Mr S didnt  return the information as requested. Without  this additional 
information, I dont  think Metro Banks  decision  to not pursue the chargeback  was 
unreasonable. I say this because without being able to meet the basic requirements of the 
chargeback code, there was arguably no reasonable prospect of success.  
Ive also considered that Metro Bank  only waited  a day for Mr S to provide the information. 
When he didnt do so, it declined his claim and gave him an incorrect  explanation as to why 
it couldnt succeed. Although Metro Bank did decline  his claim a day after it asked  him to 
provide further  information, Mr S did continue to engage with Metro  Bank  as he was 
unhappy with the outcome. He could  have provided  the additional information at that stage 
but chose not to. Our investigator also attempted to obtain further  information  from Mr S on 
several occasions, but this wasnt forthcoming. So I think, on balance, its likely Mr S wouldnt 
have provided  the information Metro Bank needed to initiate a chargeback,  even if they had 
waited longer to decline  his claim. 
Ive thought carefully about what information Mr S did provide to Metro Bank and whether  on 
this basis it ought  to have attempted a chargeback  anyway. The chargeback rules say that a 
detailed explanation from Mr S would have  been  sufficient. While Mr S did make it clear he 
thought hed been the victim of a scam, he hadnt addressed the issues  which  the 
chargeback code required  that is, attempted contact with the merchant and attempted 
return of goods  (or an explanation of when services were to be provided by). These two 
points also needed  to be covered in his description of what  happened and he didnt provide 
this detail. This is despite Metro Bank  asking  him to provide those details. 
Mr S wasnt  required to provide proof that hed done  these things, just an explanation of 
what he had done  and when. But he failed to provide  that basic  information. I would have 
expected Mr S to have  explained to Metro  Bank  whether he did receive any goods  and when 
he had attempted  to return  them  to G (if applicable) as well as providing details of when and 
how he had tried to resolve  his concerns  with G. Further, he didnt provide sufficient detail of 
what services  G had failed to provide him and when they ought to have provided  them  by. 
Ref: DRN49760114Overall, I dont  think Metro Bank  acted  unreasonably in not pursuing the chargeback  claim,  
but only because  Mr S didnt engage with Metro Bank by providing the basic  information  
required by the card scheme. 
Having said this, Metro  Bank did handle the chargeback claim poorly and provided 
inconsistent and incorrect reasoning. It has offered Mr S £50 compensation already, but I 
dont think that is sufficient. It caused upset and confusion for Mr S at a time when he had 
sought the banks assistance after falling for an alleged scam. The banks actions added  to 
his distress at an already  challenging  time.  In the circumstances, I think  Metro  Bank  should  
pay Mr S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its actions caused.
Mr S and Metro Bank accepted my provisional  decision. Mr S however said that he didnt 
receive any photos or paperwork  as G threw him out of the premises when he began  to 
complain. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion I reached  in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
Mr S says that he didnt  receive any paperwork or photos. I dont doubt what  Mr S has said, 
but I havent seen that he explained this to Metro Bank previously and even if he did, he still 
didnt provide all of the information that Metro Bank  needed to correctly  submit the 
chargeback.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  in part and direct Metro Bank PLC to:
Pay Mr S £150 for the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 December  2020.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4976011