K821x#15complaint
Mr Q complains about the amount that hes been charged by LeasePlan UK Limited for 
damage to a car that he returned  when his hire agreement  ended.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr Q under a hire agreement with LeasePlan that he signed  in 
March 2016. The car was collected from him in March 2019 when the agreement ended  and 
it was inspected. Damage to the car was identified with a total repair  cost of £815. Mr Q was 
charged £758 for the damage  by LeasePlan but he complained to it and it agreed to remove 
the charges for the offside front door and near side inner sill and to reduce the charges for 
the nearside and offside  rear doors  by £43 each  so it reduced the charges by £183 to 
£575. 
Mr Q wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained to this service.  He says that his 
complaint is about:  the excessive charges; an incomplete investigation of his complaint by 
LeasePlan as its final response letter didnt address his complaint about the charge for the 
bonnet scratch;  discrepancies in its investigation as its incorrectly calculated charges; and 
its poor customer service. He also says that the damage  has been assessed  against the 
wrong guidelines.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  in part. She 
recommended that LeasePlan  should  remove the charges for the front bumper, offside alloy 
rim, offside front door and nearside inner  sill.
Mr Q has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman but LeasePlan hasnt 
responded to the investigators  recommendations.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The inspection report recommended charges totalling £815  for thirteen areas of damage on 
the car that was returned by Mr Q but LeasePlan charged him £758  for damage. He 
complained about the charge and it agreed to remove charges for the offside front door and 
nearside inner sill and to reduce the charges for the nearside and offside rear doors by £43 
each so the charges were reduced  by £183  to £575. Its final response  letter  to him didnt 
refer to the charge for the damage  to the bonnet  but I consider  that the evidence shows  
that that was an error and I dont consider that it was its intention  to waive that charge.
LeasePlan is now charging  Mr Q for damage  as follows: £143 for the bonnet,  £40 for the 
front bumper, £40 for the nearside mirror housing, £40 for the nearside  wing,  £40 for the 
nearside front door, £50 for the nearside  rear door, £70 for the offside alloy rim; £50 for the 
offside rear door; £45 for the rear bumper and £57 for the offside front inner sill. That totals 
£575.
In addition to the charges that LeasePlan had removed, the investigator recommended  that 
LeasePlan should remove the charges for the front bumper and offside alloy rim. LeasePlan 
had charged Mr Q £40 for the damage to the front bumper and £70 for damage to the offside  
alloy rim. It had already reduced  the total charge to £575  so deducting £40 for the damage  to 
Ref: DRN42814422the front bumper  and £70 for damage  to the offside alloy rim reduces  the total charge to 
£465.
As LeasePlan has agreed to remove  the charges for the offside front door and nearside 
inner sill I havent considered those charges any further. I agree with the investigator that 
there isnt enough  evidence  to show that the damage to the front bumper and offside alloy 
rim was more than would reasonably be considered to be fair wear and tear. I consider that 
the photos show damage to the nearside front and offside front doors. LeasePlan has 
agreed to reduce the charges for the damage  to each of those doors by £43 from £93 to £50 
and I consider a charge of £50 for the damage to each of those doors to be fair and 
reasonable.
I have reviewed the photos  in the inspection report and have considered  the damage against 
LeasePlans guidelines  that were applicable  at that time and also the British Vehicle  Rental  
and Leasing Association guidelines on fair wear and tear. 
Its clear to me that the paint on the bonnet is scratched down to the primer  which I dont 
consider would reasonably be considered to be fair wear and tear. I consider that the 
damage shown  on the photos of the nearside mirror housing, the nearside wing, the 
nearside front door, the rear bumper and the offside rear inner sills is more than would 
reasonably be considered  to be fair wear  and tear in accordance with those guidelines. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that the charges  that LeasePlan 
has made for that damage  are excessive. I agree with Mr Q that there have been some  
customer service  failings  by LeasePlan  including that its final response letter didnt 
address his complaint about the charge for the damage to the bonnet   but Im not 
persuaded that those failings justify an award of compensation  in these circumstances.
I consider that its fair and reasonable in these circumstances for LeasePlan to charge Mr Q 
£465 for the damage to the car that he returned at the end of his hire agreement   so I 
consider that it should reduce the total charge to £465. But Im not persuaded that it would 
be fair or reasonable  for me to require it to take any other action in response to his 
complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Qs complaint in part and I order  
LeasePlan UK Limited to reduce the total charge for the damage to the car that was returned  
by him to £465.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4281442