K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains about the sale of her Lifestyle Protector  insurance  policy  by Nationwide  
Building Society. 
background
In 2012, Miss C took out the Lifestyle Protector policy. The aim of the policy  was to pay 
benefit for a maximum period of 12 months,  in the event Miss C couldnt  work  because of 
unemployment. 
Miss C has complained about the sale of the policy. She says she was led to believe that 
taking out the policy  was a condition of the mortgage she was taking out with Nationwide  at 
the time.  She also said she didnt need  the policy. Nationwide didnt uphold Miss Cs 
complaint, so she brought the matter to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She didnt think  Miss C had 
shown that Nationwide had led her to believe she had to take out the policy in order to 
secure her mortgage. The adjudicator thought the policy  was suitable for Miss C. 
Miss C has asked for an ombudsmans decision so her complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Miss C explains  that when applying for a mortgage  with Nationwide,  she was told that her 
mortgage application would likely be declined if she didnt also take out the policy.  She says 
it was only recently that she became aware  the policy was optional  and not linked to her 
mortgage
Ive looked at the information from the time of sale. I see that Miss C met with an adviser in 
the branch. A demands and needs  statement was prepared for Miss C by the adviser. This 
said that the adviser had initially recommended accident and sickness cover, as well as 
unemployment cover. However, Miss C chose not to accept this recommendation. It was 
recorded that she felt she had a greater need for unemployment cover,  and so because of 
this (as well as the price),  the recommendation was changed to unemployment only to reflect 
this. The document  also said the policy wasnt linked to any mortgage or loan. 
The adviser then sent Miss C a letter which said theyd  discussed her requirements to 
protect her income and lifestyle in the event that she couldnt  work because of 
unemployment. He confirmed the optional  product  hed recommended was the Lifestyle 
Protector, which paid a monthly benefit  of £492  for a maximum of 12 months.
After Miss C agreed to take out the cover, she was sent a welcome  letter. This letter made  it 
clear she could cancel  the policy at any time. The welcome letter included a copy  of her 
policy schedule, and this confirmed the cover  she held.  
I note the policy renewed  each  year.  Nationwide  wrote  to Miss C at each renewal to advise 
her of the new premium.  Ive looked back at the renewal letters issued since 2013  and I see 
they each made it clear  that Miss C was able to cancel the policy at any time. 
Ref: DRN42638322I dont know if Miss C took out her mortgage  at the same time as the policy, as she hasnt 
provided us with evidence of this. But based on the above evidence,  Im satisfied the adviser 
identified a need for the unemployment cover. I think it was made clear to Miss C that the 
policy was optional and not linked to her mortgage, and that she could cancel it at any time. 
I therefore dont  find that the policy was mis-sold. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2019.
.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4263832