K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP lent him money  he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr C took out four loans with Uncle Buck between July 2014 and January 2015. A summary  
of Mr Cs lending is as follows:
Loan Loan amount
Date of loan Amount repaid
Repayment Date
1 £300 27/07/2014 £405 29/08/2014
2 £650 18/10/2014 £877 31/10/2014
3 £650 02/11/2014 £877 28/11/2014
4 £525 30/01/2015 £647 27/02/2015
Mr C says Uncle Buck was irresponsible to agree  to lend to him. Mr C says Uncle Buck  
mustve realised that he was struggling financially when it agreed to lend.  Mr C wants Uncle  
Buck to refund the interest that he paid on the loans.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Cs complaint be upheld in part. The adjudicator  
thought that although  Uncle  Bucks checks went far enough before agreeing loan one. And 
based on the information that Mr C gave to Uncle Buck,  loan one appeared affordable.
The adjudicator thought  based on Mr Cs declared  income and expenditure for loan two, 
Uncle Buck  shouldnt have agreed  to lend.
The adjudicator didnt think that Uncle Bucks  checks  went  far enough before agreeing loans 
three and four. The adjudicator didnt  think that better checks wouldve made  a difference to 
Uncle Bucks decision  to lend loan three.
The adjudicator thought  that if Uncle Buck had carried out proportionate checks before loan 
four it wouldnt have agreed  to lend.
Uncle Buck  doesnt  agree  with the adjudicators recommendation. Uncle Buck  points out that 
it declined a four out of eight of Mr Cs loan applications. Uncle Buck  says that Mr C repaid 
loans two and four in full and on time, indicating that Mr C had enough  money to afford  the 
repayments.
Uncle Buck  says that its credit check didnt reveal  anything of concern. Uncle Buck says that 
Mr Cs declared  spending  on utilities reduced by half for loans three and four. Uncle Buck  
says that Mr C repaid  loan two in two weeks which means there  was little time to incur any 
unexpected expenses. And Mr C had headroom on his revolving credit limit at the time of 
loan two.
At the time of loan four, Uncle Buck says that its search didnt reveal  any outstanding short 
term loans.
Uncle Buck  says that it wasnt  obliged by law to consider bank statements. It thinks  that the 
checks it carried out were adequate.
Ref: DRN46148272my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Uncle Buck  was required to make  sure Mr C could repay any money that it lent to him in a 
sustainable way. Any checks had to be proportionate to things  such  as the amount of the 
loan, the repayments and any borrowing history. But there wasnt a set list of checks  Uncle 
Buck had to carry out.
I appreciate that Uncle Buck says it wasnt required by law to ask for bank statements as 
part of its affordability  assessment  but this is just one of the ways a lender could carry out a 
more thorough financial assessment before agreeing to lend. 
Just because Mr C was able to make his repayments in full and on time doesnt  necessarily  
mean that he was able to do so in a sustainable way  that is without borrowing elsewhere.  
loan one 
Mr C was due to repay around £404  for loan one. 
It was early on in Mr Cs lending history with Uncle Buck  and the repayment on loan one 
represented a very modest proportion of his declared income of £3,125.  
Mr C told Uncle Buck that he had monthly outgoings of £1,400. Based on the expenditure 
figures that Mr C gave, I cant find that it was wrong of Uncle Buck  to agree loan one.
loan two 
Mr C asked for loan two less than two months  after repaying loan one. Mr C was due to 
repay over £877 in one go. 
Before agreeing loan two, Mr C declared  his monthly outgoings  to be £2,245. This meant 
that Mr C had a declared disposable monthly  income of £880.  Although  this might have been 
just enough to afford to repay  loan two, Mr C was left with less £3 after making  the payment 
to Uncle  Buck. If hed had had any unexpected  expenses  even  relatively minor ones     
Mr C wouldve been left with no disposable income  at all. 
I dont think it was reasonable  of Uncle Buck to agree loan two.
loan three  
By the time Mr C borrowed from Uncle Buck in November 2014, hed already taken out two 
loans in the same chain.  This meant Uncle Buck shouldve  been aware of Mr Cs borrowing 
history and done more  to check  whether  he could  afford the loans.
I think Uncle Buck shouldve had some  concerns  that Mr C was using the loans for general 
living costs  rather than to help with one-off expenses. The pattern of lending shouldve 
reasonably prompted Uncle Buck to ask Mr C about  his other short  term loans.
Ref: DRN46148273Just because I consider  that Uncle Buck shouldve carried  out further checks, doesnt 
necessarily mean that I must go on to uphold Mr Cs complaint. I would need to be 
persuaded that if Uncle Buck had carried out the proportionate checks  I think were 
reasonable, it wouldve discovered  that Mr C couldnt afford some or all of the loan 
repayments.
Mr C declared  his monthly outgoings  to be £1,895. As Mr C didnt owe much  to other short  
term lenders at the time that he applied for loan three, I cant say that with better  checks, 
loan three  wouldve appeared  unaffordable. It follows  that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint 
about this loan.
loan four
By the time Mr C borrowed from Uncle Buck for a fourth time, hed already taken out three 
loans in the same chain.  This meant Uncle Buck shouldve  been aware of Mr Cs borrowing 
history and done more  to check  whether  he could  afford the loans.
I think Uncle Buck shouldve had some  concerns  that Mr C was using the loans for general 
living costs  rather than to help with one-off expenses. The pattern of lending shouldve 
reasonably prompted Uncle Buck to try and gather a comprehensive picture of Mr Cs 
finances. Uncle Buck couldve  done  this in a variety  of ways  such  as asking to see bills or 
bank statements. As we have copy bank statements, Ive used these to decide  what better 
checks wouldve revealed.
If Uncle Buck had looked at Mr Cs financial  circumstances in as much detail as I think  was 
proportionate, it wouldve  discovered that he didnt have enough disposable income to be 
able to afford to repay loan four. This is because Mr Cs regular credit commitments were  
higher than the £500 that hed declared. Mr C was also regularly borrowing money from at 
least one other short  term lender. A couple of weeks before Mr C took out loan four with 
Uncle Buck,  hed borrowed £750  from the other payday lender. 
Mr Cs bank statements demonstrate a pattern of borrowing from one short  term lender  so 
that he could repay  Uncle  Buck. I dont consider this was sustainable.  As a responsible 
lender, I wouldnt have expected Uncle Buck to agree loan four if it had realised this.
Overall, Mr C has lost out so Uncle Buck should  compensate him.
putting things right
To put things right Uncle Buck  should:
Refund any interest and charges paid on loans two and four;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
Remove any negative  information recorded about loans two and four from Mr Cs 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN46148274my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part and direct Uncle  Buck Finance LLP to 
put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4614827