K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains about two loans he took out with Inventive Finance Limited,  trading as Ladder 
Loans, (LL). He said that LL shouldnt have  given him the loans  as they were unaffordable.  
background
Mr I took out two instalment loans with LL in November  2013 and January 2015. Both loans 
were repaid  on the due date. Details of the loans are below:
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateLoan 
Amount  Highest instalment amount
Number of 
monthly 
instalments
1 13/11/2013 £ 600 £107.16      10
2 16/1/2015 £ 600 £97.86      12
Mr I said that at the time he took out the loans he was financially vulnerable  and on a spiral 
of payday loans. Before Loan  1 he had taken out 111 payday loans and between Loans  1 
and 2, he had taken out 70 new payday  loans from ten different lenders which would have 
been reflected  on his credit file. Mr I had to borrow again immediately  after his pay days  to 
afford the loan repayments. Although hed managed to repay most of his payday loans on 
time, hed only done this through  repeat  borrowing  from multiple lenders.
LL said that the Loan 1 repayments of £107.16  were affordable  based  on Mr Is declared 
income of £2,300. And LL said that the Loan 2 repayments were low value and appeared to 
be affordable based  on the information Mr I had declared. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  He said that LLs 
checks went far enough. He hadnt  seen a credit  check  but the other checks were  sufficient 
and suggested  that Mr I could afford the repayments.
Mr I disagreed and responded to say that the outgoings hed declared to LL were massively  
understated. He hadnt included his payday  loan repayments. These wiped  out all his 
disposable income. He said that LL should have queried why he needed the loan if he had 
so much disposable income apparently  spare. Mr I said that if LL had done a credit  check,  it 
would have seen  the 101 payday loans hed taken  out in the 12 months  prior to Loan 1. Mr I 
believed that LL had done a credit check before Loan 2 as its final response letter  referred to 
there being no issues with other lenders. He also said that LL should have been concerned 
that hed taken out Loan 2 three months  after repaying Loan 1 as this demonstrated that he 
was reliant on payday loans.  Mr I also believed that LL would  have known that hed taken 
out 11 loans from a sister company of LL between August 2012 and July 2013. The sister  
company had given  him redress for those  loans, so he didnt understand why LL had 
rejected his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN46108762I note that Mr I told this service that hed taken out 11 loans with a sister company (S) of LL 
before he borrowed  from LL. But I note that LL wasnt acquired by Ss parent company until 
after Mr I had borrowed both loans from LL. So LL wouldnt have been aware of Ss loans 
from internal company  records  at the times Mr I took out his loans. 
LL was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks  to see whether Mr I could 
afford to pay back each loan before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be proportionate 
to things such as the amount Mr I was borrowing, the length of the agreements and his 
lending history. But there was no set list of checks it had to do. 
LL hadnt provided any credit check information  to this service  so I asked the adjudicator  to 
ask LL to confirm whether  or not it had carried out a credit check  before the loans. It said 
that it hadnt been able to obtain a copy of its credit checks and was unable  to say if in fact 
credit checks had been completed. Id also asked  the adjudicator to refer LL to the statement 
in its final response letter  about there being no issues with other lenders. LL said that this 
statement was part of a letter template to be included  when a search had been  completed. I 
can see that even  though  this statement was included, it wasnt  clear that a credit  check  had 
been carried out before LL gave Mr I his loans. So its possible that statement was included 
in error.
Ive thought about whether LLs checks were  proportionate for these loans. LL told us that 
before lending Loan 1 to Mr I, it had asked about his income and taken into account  
statistical data about his expenditure. 
Before Loan 1, LL had recorded Mr Is income  as £2,300. It doesnt  appear that LL had 
obtained details  of Mr Is expenditure,  although  I note that it had taken into account  statistical 
expenditure of £285.79. The loan of £600 was repayable by ten monthly instalments of 
£107.16. So the amounts  that Mr I needed  to repay  each month were smaller than if hed 
taken a normal payday loan, although  Mr I was also committing to making those repayments 
over a far longer period. But I can see that the loan repayment amounts were  relatively  
modest compared to Mr Is declared income. 
I dont think at that stage  of its relationship  with Mr I that LL had any reason to doubt  the 
information hed provided. I havent  seen anything to suggest  that LL knew that Mr I was 
struggling. And there  was little to suggest to LL at that stage that Mr I wasnt  using the loan 
in the way it was intended   as a short  term solution  to a temporary cash  flow problem. So, I 
think it was proportionate for LL to consider Mr Is declared income and statistical 
expenditure at that time, without making further  checks for Loan  1. So I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for LL to assess Loan  1 as affordable.
Mr I repaid Loan 1 on the due dates and took out Loan 2 over three  months after repaying 
the last instalment on Loan 1. I dont  agree  with Mr I that a gap of over three months  
between loans demonstrates reliance on lending.  I think that gap should have given 
additional confidence to LL that Mr I wasnt borrowing  sequentially.
Loan 2 was also for £600 and repayable by twelve monthly instalments of £97.86. So the 
repayments were smaller  than for Loan 1, although repaid over a longer period. LL told us 
that Mr I declared an income of £2,371  and his declared regular expenditure including other  
credit commitments  of £410,  totalled  £814. LL had added  statistical  expenditure to this figure 
so it had taken  into account total expenditure of £990.79. So LL said that Mr I had a 
disposable income of £790. I dont think at that stage of its relationship  with Mr I that LL had 
any reason to doubt the information hed provided.
Ref: DRN46108763Overall, I think it was reasonable here for LL to base its affordability assessment on the 
information Mr I provided  about  his income  and expenditure. I note that Mr I said that his 
declared expenditure was understated and didnt include payday  loan repayments. But I note 
that Mr I was asked for information about  his credit which he declared at £410. If LL hadnt  
carried out a credit check, I dont think that it had any reason to doubt that the credit  
expenditure information supplied by Mr I was inaccurate at this stage of the lending.
I note that there had been no repayment issues before Loan 2 and I think the repayment 
amounts were still relatively modest compared to Mr Is declared disposable income. So, 
again I dont think  LL needed to do more,  and so I think the checks  LL did before Loan  2 
were proportionate. And those checks didnt show anything that might have suggested that 
Mr I would be unable to repay this loan as agreed. So I dont think  it was wrong for LL to give 
Loan 2 to Mr I.
I dont doubt what  Mr I says about his financial  position and the difficulties he was in with 
regard to his other  payday loans and gambling.  But this wasnt information he shared with LL 
when he applied for the loans. I can also appreciate  why Mr I feels  that LL didnt do enough 
to check his circumstances, particularly when he says his credit  file would have shown his 
numerous other payday loans and credit accounts.  But LL didnt have  to check  Mr Is credit 
file at the time. So overall I dont think it was wrong  for LL to give these loans to Mr I.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4610876