K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain  about the loss they suffered when  National Westminster  Bank Plc 
(NatWest) delayed access to their bond proceeds.
background
Mr B had a joint NatWest fixed rate bond  with his mother. He needed some money for 
building work. So he asked the bank  to cancel the policy. Mr B says he shouldve  received 
the money in the second week  of December 2018. But when he went  to the bank his bond 
account hadnt been closed. And he didnt get the proceeds until January 2019. 
Mr B said the builders cancelled the work  because  he couldnt pay the next instalment.  And 
he lost the deposit of £3500. So Mr B and Mrs B would like the bank to repay the deposit.
NatWest said Mr Bs instructions had been faxed to the bond team. But theyd not been 
received. So Mr Bs request hadnt been actioned. To put things  right NatWest had 
requested a same-day  closure for the bond on 7 January 2019. And the proceeds  had been 
credited to Mr Bs account on the same  day. 
Having reviewed the complaint NatWest agreed to increase the total compensation offered 
to £300. But the terms and conditions  of the account  said the bank couldnt be held liable for 
consequential loss. So it wasnt able to refund the deposit Mr B had paid to the builders.
Mr B wasnt  satisfied with NatWests response. So he contacted our service  and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She looked at the information provided  by Mr B and 
NatWest. And she thought the banks offer of £300 compensation was fair for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused by the delayed payment. Mr B had other  funds available.  And 
she felt he couldve used  the money in his other account to pay the instalments while the 
bond closure was being  resolved.
Mr B didnt agree. His other account  was held jointly with his wife. So the money wasnt  all 
his. And he didnt feel he couldve used it. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise how frustrating this mustve been for Mr B. NatWest didnt carry out his early  
redemption instructions. So there was a delay before  he received the proceeds. And he had 
to make a number of branch visits to try and sort things  out. 
Mr B says he lost a £3500  deposit for some  building work because  of the delay. So Ive 
looked carefully at everything Mr B and NatWest  have  said.
Mr B thought  hed visited the branch in early November. But NatWest said the visit took 
place in either mid November or possibly  early December. Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of the bond account. And I can see Mr B and Mrs B wouldve needed to give 
35 days notice to close the account before the maturity date. So the money shouldve been  
available towards  the middle or end of December.
Ref: DRN49424032But there seems to have  been a problem at the bank. And the request wasnt  actioned  when 
Mr B requested. NatWest  acknowledged itd made a mistake.  So the bank carried out an 
emergency closure on 7 January 2019. And it said the money was paid into Mr Bs account  
about a week  later than it shouldve  been.
Ive looked at the invoice  for the proposed building work. Mr B was asked to provide a 
deposit of £3500 to secure the booking and a start date of 17 December 2018.  Mr B says he 
paid the deposit in cash from another  account.
The next payment  was due on 21 December and then every  Friday until completion. Mr B 
said the builders  withdrew from the project  as soon as he said he wouldnt be able to make  
the next payment. And he had to get the work done elsewhere which meant  he lost the 
deposit.
Ive considered whether Mr B couldve done anything  to avoid losing his deposit. He says he 
couldnt pay the next instalment as he was still waiting  for NatWest to provide the funds from 
his bond. And the builders were unable  to arrange  another start date for the work.
Neither Mr B nor NatWest  have been  able to confirm exactly when Mr B gave the 
instructions to close his bond account. Mr B thought  it was in the first week of November. So 
hed have received the funds in time to make  payment on 21 December. But NatWest  is sure 
it was a few weeks  later than that. So its possible the 35 day notice period mightve gone 
past the next payment  date.
I cant be sure exactly when  the funds wouldve become due. But I can see Mr B used funds 
from a different account to pay the deposit.  And there was sufficient money remaining to 
make the next payment if hed chosen to. Mr B says it was a joint account with his wife. So 
he couldnt just take the money.  But hed already used the account  to pay the deposit.  And 
the bond proceeds were also in joint names  with his mother. So I dont think its 
unreasonable to suggest  Mr B couldve considered making the next payment from a different 
source while he waited  for NatWest  to release his funds. He couldve put the money  back 
within a week or two.
Its clear NatWest made a mistake  in not carrying out Mr Bs closure request when he asked. 
And it couldve handled things better. But it did carry out an emergency closure so the funds 
were released to Mr B on 7 January. And its offered a total of £300 compensation for the 
poor service and costs  Mr B incurred while visiting his branch.
I realise Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome. But I think  NatWests offer is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I cant be certain  exactly when the funds wouldve been 
available had the 35-day  notice period been  activated when Mr B visited his branch. And 
Mr B couldve considered other options  as a short-term  solution. So I cant hold the bank 
responsible for the deposit Mr B paid to the builders. That wouldnt be fair. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 October  2019.
Ref: DRN49424033Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4942403