K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about advice given by HDIFA (then part of Berkshire Financial Advisers  
Limited) to transfer  the value  of his deferred  benefits  in a former employers defined  benefits 
pension scheme  to a self invested personal  pension (SIPP) to invest in an unregulated 
investment. 
Meyado Private Wealth Management London  Ltd (Meyado) is now responsible  for the advice 
HDIFA gave. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 20 January 2020. I set out the background, including the 
documentation Mr G had signed, what he and Meyado had said about what  happened  and 
my provisional findings. 
In summary,  Mr G was referred to a regulated business (an appointed representative of a 
network) Ill call Firm A. Its not entirely  clear if he was referred by an unregulated introducer 
or another  regulated business which Ill call Firm B. Mr G had deferred  benefits in a former 
employers defined benefit pension scheme.  Firm A didnt have the necessary permissions 
to advise on final salary  pension transfers and Mr G was referred  to HDIFA.
The documents Ive seen  include  HDIFAs letter of engagement,  a pension review  
questionnaire and HDIFAs suitability report dated  11 June 2012. HDIFA recommended a 
transfer to a SIPP with a named provider.  It said this was for the purpose of investing  in 
carbon credits and no advice had been given (by HDIFA or Firm A) about that investment. 
The critical yield to match the pension benefits  being  given up at age 65 was 13.90%  pa. 
The report  said the tax free cash  under  the recommended personal pension  would increase 
upon transfer. 
The investment section of the report said Mr G had confirmed he wanted to invest  in carbon 
credits. HDIFA had therefore  recommended  a SIPP with the named provider as it would 
allow that investment.  HDIFA  recommended the funds  were initially invested  in cash. HDIFA 
added that, as Mr G was aware, it wasnt making  any investment recommendation and was 
only advising  and arranging the transfer.  Once the transfer had been  completed an adviser 
with Firm A would be in touch with Mr G to arrange  the transfer of the agency of the SIPP 
from HDIFA to Firm A, whod liaise with the introducer to arrange the purchase of the carbon  
credits investment. 
Mr G signed the SIPP  application form on 11 June 2012 showing HDIFA as his financial 
adviser. On 25 June 2012 a transfer value  of £54,990 was paid into the SIPP. On 3 
December 2012  £52,412 was invested  in White Sands,  a property development in Brazil.
Mr G, through his representative, complained  to Meyado in July 2016. It didnt uphold  the 
complaint. Mr Gs representative asked us to look into it. Our adjudicator upheld the 
complaint. Meyado didnt agree. Its legal representative said the adjudicators reasoning  and 
conclusions were flawed.  Its main points were:
Wed failed  to properly investigate the role of and advice  given  by Firm A. And other 
entities that were involved.
Ref: DRN43832342Mr G had invested  in White Sands. That investment hadnt been mentioned or 
contemplated when  HDIFA  was involved. And it wasnt made  until December 2012, 
some months after HDIFAs involvement.  HDIFA had no control over that decision. 
Firm A was involved as well as another regulated business,  Firm B. Mr G had also 
signed a letter  in October  2012 confirming he took full responsibility for his pension and 
the underlying investment. 
HDIFA said in its letter of 18 May 2012 (which Mr G signed) that it accepted no 
responsibility for his decision  to purchase his preferred  investment. So he knew  the 
scope of HDIFAs  advice was limited. HDIFAs letter of 11 June 2012 (which  Mr G again  
signed) said HDIFA would be transferring the agency  for the SIPP to Firm A for the 
purpose of the chosen investment. 
Firm A is no longer trading. But its principal is and so is Firm B. We should get 
documents from both firms.
Wed ignored what had been  said about  the funding  position of Mr Gs former 
employers scheme  a deficit  of £8.5 million. 
HDIFA was simply arranging the transfer  (because Firm A didnt have the necessary 
permissions). HDIFA made it clear in writing it wouldnt be advising on the underlying 
investment. It wasnt fair and reasonable to hold HDIFA liable in full for how the money 
was invested outside of its advice  and on advice from another  party.  
Mr Gs losses arose from the investment. Our approach leaves the provider of the 
advice about the investment without any liability. It cant  be right to say HDIFA is 100% 
liable. It had no control over but is being blamed for Mr Gs investment decisions.  
We made some further enquiries. We were aware that some investors had received 
incentive payments.  Mr G told us hed received  a payment of £9,970  on 3 December 2012. 
He provided a copy of his bank statement to confirm. We asked him for some more  
information about the payment, including a withdrawal (£3,000) made on the same  day as 
the incentive payment was credited and a payment (£4,000) made the day after. Mr G said 
he thought the £3,000 was to meet  initial administrative payments in respect of his SIPP. 
The £4,000 was to repay a debt.
We queried some of what Mr G had said. It seemed the SIPP charges had all been debited  
from the SIPP fund so Mr G hadnt  had to pay them direct. We also asked for more details of 
the debt and what had happened to the balance  of the incentive payment. Mr G explained 
the debt was owed to a family  member.  Hed used the payment to reduce debts and meet  
ordinary living expenses. 
As to how it had all come  about,  Mr G said hed been called by a company which  I think  was 
Firm B. Mr G was told his pension fund could  be put into a property that was working really 
well and the potential  returns  would be much higher than the pension  he had. Mr G thought  it 
was a good idea. Hed get some capital to pay his debts  and hopefully  a better pension in 
the future.  At the time his health  wasnt good (although the PRQ  recorded it as good). Hed 
become self employed to get away from the stress of the job he was doing. His disposable 
income was recorded  as £1,200 pm but he was actually earning a lot less. He was hoping  
Ref: DRN43832343hed be able to start taking a comfortable  level of income from his business  in the future. But, 
sadly, that was never achieved as his health deteriorated.
He didnt recall the incentive payment being referred  to as such. He thought,  given his age 
(he was 58 at the time), he was entitled  to take a proportion of his pension immediately. 
Taking a sum to clear debts seemed sensible. He thought it was Firm B whod mentioned at 
the outset the possibility  of taking a small amount out of his pension  with the remaining fund 
still being able to benefit from excellent growth. That appealed to Mr G and, having  been 
given the impression that he could  take part of his pension, he naturally agreed to it. He 
believed the money  had come from his pension and he didnt question  it. He said he was 
sure HDIFA  was aware of the payment but he couldnt remember whod organised  it.
We shared our further enquiries and what Mr G had said with Meyado. Its legal 
representative said that up until now no or no proper  information had been supplied  about 
the substantial  incentive payment. And the presently available information  was inadequate or 
incomplete. It was apparent from Mr Gs perspective,  and from his own evidence, that his 
material dealings were  with Firm B and not HDIFA. Mr G had little or no recollection  of 
HDIFA or the role it played. What hed said about  HDIFA being aware of the payment made  
to him was disputed. The evidence pointed to other parties having a material involvement in 
his decision to invest as he did.
Meyado referred  to its previous  submissions and what had been  said about the involvement 
of Firms A and B. Meyado pointed to an email  from Firm B dated  24 July 2012  to Firm A. 
Meyado said we hadnt investigated the material involvement of those two entities properly 
or at all.
Meyado added that it was apparent from Mr Gs evidence that he was facing financial 
hardship when  he decided to transfer. It wasnt open to us to disregard the incentive 
payment. Its availability would have been a powerful motivating factor  in Mr Gs decision to 
transfer and invest  in his chosen investment. It is apparent he had (at least  at the relevant 
time) trust and confidence in Firm B. Mr G would have transferred anyway and irrespective 
of any advice to the contrary. The inescapable conclusion  is Mr G does or should lay blame 
with an entity  or entities  other than HDIFA. The evidence reflects  a central issue  and its 
incorrect to target Meyado  with full responsibility  for Mr Gs losses.
In summary  my provisional findings were  (using the same or similar headings):
was HDIFAs advice  suitable?
Regardless of anyone elses part in the matter, HDIFA had to follow  the rules set out by the 
regulator including the overarching Principles for Business. Principles 1 (integrity), 2 (due 
skill, care and diligence), 6 (customers interests)  and 9 (reasonable care) were particularly 
relevant. 
I referred to COBS 9.2.1R, 9.2.2R  and 2.1.1R. HDIFA couldnt fulfil those  duties without 
considering the overall transaction, including the investment strategy  the SIPP was taken out 
to facilitate. 
I referred to the alert issued by the then regulator  in January 2013. It post dated HDIFAs 
advice. But it didnt  follow any changes in legislation or the COBS  rules. It was issued  
because it had come to the regulators  attention that some firms were adopting advice 
models which didnt  comply with the existing obligations. I quoted most of the alert. It made  it 
Ref: DRN43832344clear it wasnt  open to HDIFA to advice  just on the SIPP itself. The advice had to take into 
account the overall investment strategy.  
HDIFA knew, from the outset, that Mr Gs intention was to invest  in an unregulated 
investment. HDIFA was told that was carbon credits but Mr G actually invested in White  
Sands. HDIFA had to understand  the risks associated with the proposed investment  
whether that was carbon  credits or White  Sands. 
The referral  to HDIFA may have come  from another regulated firm (and not an unregulated 
introducer). And HDIFA may have made it clear it wasnt  advising on the underlying  
investment. But it wasnt  open  to HDIFA to advise on that basis.  Its advice on the suitability 
of the transfer  had to include the suitability of the investment, even if Mr G accepted HDIFAs 
advice would be limited.  
what would  suitable  advice have been?
I referred to COBS 19.1.6G.  HDIFA should have started  by assuming the transfer  wouldnt 
be suitable. And further examination would  have confirmed  that. 
Investing all of Mr Gs only pension fund in a single high risk, unregulated investment 
(whether carbon credits  or White Sands) wasnt  suitable for him. He was 58 at the time and 
so had limited time to make further retirement provision. He didnt have the capacity for loss 
that might  result. An unregulated investment didnt match his attitude to risk  which I said 
was probably somewhere  between medium and high although it wasnt entirely  clear.
I didnt think the transfer  was driven by concerns about the solvency of Mr Gs former 
employers scheme. Measures were in place to reduce the deficit. I wasnt sure HDIFA had 
made Mr G fully aware of the benefits hed be giving up and the impact  the higher charges 
would have on the growth that needed  to be achieved  if hed be better off by transferring. 
HDIFA should have  advised Mr G against  transferring  and to retain  his deferred benefits in 
his former  employers pension scheme.  
I could see the argument that Mr Gs losses  stemmed mainly from the failure of the 
investment. And that, as the funds were held initially in cash,  no loss had resulted by the 
time HDIFAs role ceased. But that ignored  the bigger picture. HDIFA knew that, ultimately, 
Mr G proposed to invest in an unregulated investment. He was only able to invest  because  
HDIFA had recommended the transfer and facilitated it. Whatever hed signed didnt absolve 
HDIFA of its responsibility to consider the investment too. 
what would  Mr G have done if HDIFA had given him suitable advice?
I accepted, based on what Mr G had been  told by others and before he got any advice from 
HDIFA, he was considering transferring. But he hadnt made a firm decision. Hed been  
referred to HDIFA for specialist pension transfer  advice and so he had an opportunity to 
reconsider with the benefit of expert advice. I didnt  think hed have simply ignored such 
advice. I thought hed have placed  significant weight  on what  HDIFA said. And, if hed been 
given suitable  advice  that he shouldnt transfer  that would have made  him think again. 
Instead HDIFAs unsuitable advice endorsed what hed been told by others about the 
benefits of transferring. So he had no reason not to go ahead.  
Ref: DRN43832345HDIFA didnt consider the investment.  It didnt  think it had to. But it was part and parcel  of 
the overall transaction. HDIFA should have considered it. That would have entailed spelling 
out the risks (whether  carbon credits  or White  Sands) which would  have countered any 
overly positive views expressed  by the unregulated  introducer. But, as things stood, no one 
explained to Mr G how risky that sort of (unregulated)  investment was. If HDIFA had done 
that, and told Mr G it didnt recommend he transfer, that would have  given him pause for 
thought as to whether it was advisable  to do what he was planning. On balance, I thought 
hed have reconsidered. 
If he hadnt, HDIFA may not have been prepared  to process the transfer on an insistent 
client basis. Id add here that, even if HDIFA had been willing  to do so, it would  have meant 
discussions with Mr G to explore and record his reasons  why he as prepared to proceed  and 
take a high degree of risk despite  expert  advice to the contrary. I think  that would have 
concentrated his mind  too. 
But Mr G did receive a substantial payment - £9,970  in return for investing in White Sands. 
I recognised that most people, if told that sort of sum is on offer, would naturally wish to 
access it. 
I didnt agree Mr G was in financial hardship  at the time. He no doubt welcomed the 
incentive payment  and which allowed him to clear  some debts. But he was still working 
although not earning as much as hed have liked. It seemed his financial position and his 
health had since  deteriorated but it was his position at the time that was important.  Firm B 
had contacted Mr G so it didnt appear  he was actively looking to raise  money  at the time. 
I noted what Mr G had said about what hed been  told about the payment. Hed understood it 
was money he was entitled to  a portion of his pension  fund he could take as an immediate 
cash payment. I didnt think hed have been prepared to put the balance  of his pension  fund 
at risk, just to secure  the payment, if hed been  advised against transferring because  the 
investment, whether carbon  credits or White Sands, was too risky and he could lose his 
entire pension  provision.  
I didnt think hed concealed the payment. Hed understood,  given his age, he was entitled  to 
it as part of his tax free cash.  I didnt  agree  Mr Gs bank statements should be disclosed. But 
as Mr Gs had the use and benefit  of the money it should be taken into account in calculating 
redress. 
the role of Firm A and others
Id borne in mind DISP 3.6.1R, DISP 3.5.2R,  DISP 3.5.3R and DISP 3.6.3R. It wasnt  the 
case that I hadnt considered the involvement of others. But that didnt mean a conclusion  
that, despite other (regulated) entities involvement, the complaint should be upheld against 
the party complained of and that party should  meet  the consumers losses  in full, must be 
unfair or unreasonable. 
I agreed with Meyado  that liability and causation  is determined  by factual and legal 
considerations rather than which party a complainant  may think  is responsible. 
HDIFA wasnt the only party involved.  Firm A was a regulated business too. As is the SIPP 
provider and Firm B. An unregulated introducer  was involved too. I hadnt  ignored the parts  
played by others.  I recognised that what other  parties did (or didnt do) may have impacted 
Ref: DRN43832346on what happened and Mr Gs losses. I had considered what  Firm B, the unregulated 
introducer and Firm A had done.
Mr G wasnt clear about HDIFAs  part in the matter.  But there was no dispute that HDIFA did 
give advice which it sought to limit. It wasnt open to HDIFA  to restrict its advice  even if it 
had agreed with Mr G that its advice  would be given on a limited basis and hed be getting 
investment advice elsewhere. 
If Mr G hadnt  transferred he wouldnt have been  in a position  to invest  as he did  whether 
in carbon credits  or White  Sands. His losses couldnt have been avoided  or reduced if Mr G 
had reviewed his investment  regularly  White Sands had been illiquid throughout. It wasnt 
possible to say exactly when Mr Gs losses arose. But the issue was whether the losses 
arose directly from HDIFAs unsuitable advice.  I thought they did. 
HDIFA wasnt simply arranging the transfer. HDIFA advised Mr G to transfer. My starting 
point as to causation as that HDIFA gave unsuitable advice. So it was responsible  for the 
losses Mr G had suffered in transferring to the SIPP and investing in White Sands. That 
wasnt wrong in law or irrational but reflected the facts of the case and HDIFAs pivotal part 
in the matter. It could  have prevented  the transfer.  Instead HDIFA facilitated it, having given 
unsuitable advice  that Mr G transfer. 
If Meyado considered  other parties were also to blame and should share liability, it was 
presumably open to Meyado to pursue them. I didnt see that Mr G, if his losses were  met in 
full by Meyado,  would object to assigning his rights  to Meyado.  I set out how Meyado should 
redress Mr G. 
comments in response  to my provisional  decision
Mr G said he accepted  my provisional  decision and had nothing  to add. Meyado didnt 
accept what Id said. In summary its legal  representative  said:  
Mr Gs decision to open  a SIPP and transfer the value of his deferred benefits was 
made with the assistance and/or advice of a number of entities, not just HDIFA. My 
(provisional) decision  continued to ignore the other (regulated) entities material 
involvement. That isnt fair, just or reasonable in all the circumstances but irrational. 
Wed deliberately excluded relevant matters  the relationship between Mr G and Firm 
A. That business advised  him to invest in the illiquid  investments at the heart of the 
complaint and was acknowledged (once  the SIPP was open) as the firm whod advise 
on his planned  investments. In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances the actions of other entities Mr G interacted with as part of his decision 
making cant  be excluded.
This suggests,  even  where multiple entities, regulated or otherwise and here Firm A was 
regulated (as was Firm B) are involved,  well disregard  all but the one at which the 
complaint is explicitly  directed and hold it accountable for all failings, irrespective of 
where responsibility should  properly lie. So liability will depend simply on who a 
complainant happens  to name  on a complaint form. But many wont have a true 
understanding of the roles and responsibilities of those theyve dealt  with. That 
approach is directly contrary to our obligations  under  the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (FSMA) and is demonstrably unjust  to one or more parties. 
Ref: DRN43832347And its handicapped  Meyado in responding to our investigation. Meyado has 
throughout pointed out that our reluctance to examine Firm As involvement  means  key 
documents and evidence which  must have been available to Firm A havent been  
provided to Meyado  or this service. Our enquiries  are incomplete  at best. Meyados 
ability to defend its actions has been  severely  impaired. 
Our approach has led to a fundamental error as to causation.  The (provisional) decision 
is based on the premise that, without  HDIFAs involvement, the investments  and thus 
Mr Gs losses  - couldnt  have happened. Thats an oversimplification and fails to take 
into account  Mr Gs decision to invest and that its the investments, not the SIPP, which  
is the primary  cause of his losses.
The decision wholly disregards how Mr G held himself out to HDIFA but starts from the 
assumption he was a wholly inexperienced  retail investor.  Thats completely at odds 
with both his self description  and his investment profile.  Its an irrational approach  which 
ignores relevant  evidence in favour of assumptions. 
Meyados legal representative went on to highlight sections of my provisional decision which  
it considered particularly problematic. 
Mr G had already decided to transfer  before HDIFAs  involvement. Theres evidence  he 
was determined  to transfer and HDIFA couldnt  have influenced his decision. 
Following the transfer Firm A or Firm B advised  on the investment. And Mr G later  
without HDIFAs  knowledge or involvement   decided to invest  in a completely different 
investment (White Sands  and not carbon credits). My decision is irrational given the 
facts and relies on speculation.  
The correct  factual  position is that an entity  other than HDIFA was the material advising 
entity. Id refused  to investigate other parties involvement properly  or at all. That was 
irrational and unfair. I hadnt  considered  what was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. 
Id conceded Mr G had received a substantial incentive payment. Its a matter of fact 
that he was in desperate need  of those funds. Its unfounded speculation to dismiss the 
material facts  and the incentive  payment and conclude Mr G wouldnt have gone ahead 
in any event.  Thats irrational in the circumstances.  He stood  to benefit from a 
desperately needed  incentive payment. The weight  of evidence overwhelming  points to 
the conclusion  hed have proceeded with his chosen investment come what may. 
Its accepted as a fact that an entity other  than HDIFA  actually advised on the 
investment and HDIFA had no knowledge  of or involvement in the decision to invest in 
White Sands. Its difficult if not impossible to ascribe knowledge  of or blame for any 
investment decision  made after HDIFAs involvement ceased and when another  
regulated entity appears to have actively advised and where HDIFA didnt and couldnt 
have any influence  or control over the ultimate investment.
Id said, if HDIFA had advised against  the transfer, Mr G would have thought  again. 
Thats conjecture  and at odds with the evidence which  points to Mr Gs determination 
not to heed warnings. And it ignores the reality that Mr G had invested in a product 
Ref: DRN43832348which HDIFA had no knowledge  of or involvement  in. Its difficult or impossible  to see 
how HDIFA could have  warned against  a product about which it had no knowledge. 
The decision disregards Mr Gs self assessment of his investment experience and 
attitude to risk. That approach is speculative and not based on the facts. 
The regulators alert was dealing with a different situation  where  the client  came from 
an unregulated  introducer and where the adviser  was the first and only interface with the 
client. HDIFAs situation was different. The decision  doesnt face up to that key 
difference or its significance. 
In conclusion  the decision is unfair, unjust and irrational. Nothing  should detract from 
Meyados sympathy for Mr G. Hes suffered  financial  loss as a result of investing (on the 
advice of others, not Meyado) in investments which have  failed. But the decision fails to 
properly appreciate the causation and reliance issues. And, on the basis  of the 
information wed considered (or rather chosen  not to consider), its unfair in apportioning 
the entire  responsibility  for Mr Gs losses on Meyado and so doesnt meet our 
obligations under  FSMA.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Meyados latest comments are new. I dont have much  to add to what Ive said 
previously. Meyados main point remains the involvement of others. I dont agree we need  to 
make further  enquiries about that. Or that Ive misunderstood or failed to take proper account 
of the parts  played by Firm A, or indeed others. As I explained in my provisional  decision, it 
isnt the case  that weve  simply disregarded  the involvement of others and held the business 
at which  the complaint is directed responsible in full. My findings reflect the central  issue  of 
the scope and suitability of HDIFAs advice.  
HDIFA gave unsuitable  advice: It recommended that Mr G give up the security  of a final 
salary pension arrangement in favour  of a higher charging plan where the benefits available  
to Mr G at retirement would be dependent on investment returns  and where the proposed  
investment was high risk. Mr G had no other  pensions. His age meant that he only had a 
limited window to make  further  retirement  provision. And the fact that hed just become self 
employed meant his ability to do so was uncertain. The transfer represented a level of risk 
that Mr G didnt have  capacity for and shouldnt have been  advised to take.
I dont agree with what Meyado says about  Mr Gs investment experience. Hed described  
himself, in the PRQ  as having  a fair degree of understanding or knowledge about investing. 
I dont think an adviser  should retire entirely on how an investor  might  describe himself. 
What Mr G said should have been tested by exploring his actual investment experience  and 
knowledge. I havent seen anything to suggest he had any real investment experience, and 
certainly not of specialist,  higher risk funds  the type of non mainstream  unregulated funds 
that had been identified  by the regulator  as being  rarely  suitable  for ordinary retail clients 
such as Mr G  and then generally for only a proportion of the investors overall wealth.
Nor do I agree with what Meyado  says about  Mr Gs financial position at the time.  Theres 
nothing to indicate in the contemporaneous documentation, such  as the PRQ, that his 
financial circumstances were such that he needed to raise  money  urgently. Hes since told 
Ref: DRN43832349us his disposable income figure was overstated and he did have some debts to pay. His 
current financial position is difficult and has been exacerbated by health  issue. But I dont 
agree he was in desperate need of the incentive  payment at the time. 
Mr G did switch investments  from carbon credits to White Sands. HDIFA says it couldnt  
advise about an investment  of which it had no knowledge. Theres the email dated  24 July 
2012 from Firm B to Firm A saying Mr G is switching investments. That tends to suggest 
Firm B may have  been involved in Mr Gs investment decisions rather than Firm A (or an 
unregulated introducer). But, even if another (regulated) business  was involved, the point 
remains that HDIFAs advice had to include the underlying investment in any event. 
And it seems HDIFA was made aware of the change  Firm A forwarded  the email  to HDIFA, 
saying that as both investments were allowed by the SIPP provider thered be no need to 
switch to another SIPP. HDIFA  acknowledged the email. 
But, leaving  aside whether HDIFA was aware  the intended investment had changed, HDIFA 
had known about the carbon credits  investment  and had failed to advise about it  because it 
didnt think it had do. HDIFAs failure  stemmed  from its incorrect approach,  not because it 
didnt know exactly what Mr G would be investing  in. Carbon credits  and White  Sands were 
both high risk, unregulated and equally unsuitable  for Mr G. It isnt the case  that his losses  
are more because of the investment actually  chosen: both investments have failed and no 
money will be returned to investors in either  case. 
The alert made it clear that where  a consumer seeks advice on a pension transfer, the 
advice about that must  take into account  the overall proposition  the wrapper and the 
investment. Thats  the case regardless of where the instruction comes from  although where 
theres an unregulated  introducer the potential for consumer detriment might be heightened.  
HDIFA gave the transfer advice  and it is responsible  for the losses  which have been incurred 
as a result. Mr G was only able to invest as he did (whether in carbon credits  or White 
Sands) because HDIFAs unsuitable advice unlocked the money from his former employers 
pension scheme. The transfer itself was unsuitable. I dont think Mr Gs circumstances were 
such that he should have been advised  to give up benefits in a final salary  pension scheme 
and which  would have  provided a secure,  base line income in retirement.  
Ive considered very carefully what Mr G would have done if hed been given suitable advice 
 that he shouldnt transfer. 
I maintain what Ive said before. I dont agree hed have proceeded anyway. I dont think  hed 
already made an irrevocable decision to transfer  before he was put in contact  with HDIFA. 
Or that HDIFA couldnt have influenced  his decision. On the contrary  Ive explained why my 
view is that Mr G would have thought again if HDIFA had advised him not to transfer.  I agree 
the availability  of the incentive payment was a factor in Mr Gs decision. But, on balance, Im 
not convinced  it was determinative and that hed have gone  ahead anyway if HDIFA had 
advised him against. 
fair compensation
My aim in awarding redress is to put Mr G as far as possible in the position hed be in now if
HDIF had given him suitable advice. I think hed have retained his deferred benefits in his 
former employers scheme. The redress Ive set out below should,  if possible,  be paid into a 
Ref: DRN438323410suitable pension  plan. But if thats not possible a cash payment direct to Mr G should be 
made but reduced as Ive set out below. 
what should  Meyado do?
Meyado should  undertake a redress calculation in line with the revised methodology issued
by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.  This calculation should be carried  out as
at the date of my final decision  and using the most  recent financial assumptions published at
the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should  be
undertaken or submitted  to an appropriate actuarial services provider promptly following
receipt of notification of Mr Gs acceptance of the decision.
Meyado may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP) to get Mr Gs
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation,  which  will
take into account the impact of leaving the employers  scheme  on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
The compensation in respect  of any loss should if possible be paid into a suitable  pension
arrangement. The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
It shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or
allowance. 
If payment  into a pension  isnt possible  or has protection or allowance implications,  it should  
be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for future 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 
For example, if Mr G wouldnt  yet have taken a tax-free cash  sum from the employers 
scheme, 25% of the future loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%.  So making a 
notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The compensation must where possible be paid to Mr G within  90 days of the date Meyado
receives notification  of his acceptance  of my final decision. Further  interest must be added to
the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% pa simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days, that it takes Meyado to pay Mr G 
this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean the actual  time taken to 
settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any period of 
time where  the only outstanding item required to undertake  the calculation  is data from the 
DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont  apply.
In carrying out the above  calculations, Meyado should make  an allowance  for the incentive
payment Mr G received.  It should do this by applying a withdrawal of £9,970 from the
calculation on the date Mr G actually received the lump sum (3 December  2012).  
Its possible Mr G could face an unauthorised payment charge. But whether that will be the 
case and, if so, what amount Mr G might have  to pay is uncertain. Meyado  should give Mr G 
an undertaking to meet  any unauthorised payment charge that may in the future arise. 
Ref: DRN438323411Meyado may require,  if Mr G is redressed in full, that he provides an undertaking to pay 
Meyado any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. Meyado will need  to meet any costs  in drawing  up the undertaking. 
I understand Mr Gs SIPP has been closed so I dont have to consider making an award  for 
future SIPP fees. 
Meyado should  also pay Mr G £250  for the worry and upset this matter  has caused him.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint. Meyado Private Wealth Management London Ltd should redress 
him as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4383234