complaint
Mr B complains that Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) was 
irresponsible to lend him money.
background
Mr B took out 14 loans with Sunny between May 2017 and June 2018. Mr B says that he 
was stuck in a cycle  of borrowing and that Sunny shouldve done better checks and seen 
that he was struggling financially.
The adjudicator recommended Mr Bs complaint should be upheld  in part. In summary, 
she thought that it was reasonable of Sunny to agree loans one to five. But the 
adjudicator thought Sunny shouldnt  have agreed loans six to 14.
The adjudicator recommended that Sunny refund all interest and charges that Mr B had 
paid on loans six to 14. And the adjudicator said Sunny should remove any information 
about loans six to 14 from Mr Bs credit file.
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators  recommendation and said that it hadnt been 
wrong to offer any of the loans to Mr B so as the complaint hasnt been resolved it has 
been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all 
of the relevant rules, guidance  and good  industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable  steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should  have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain  factors might point to the fact that 
Sunny should  fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
 
 the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
 the higher  the amount due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of 
time during  which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN40884082There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr B could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr B. It asked Mr B for details of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks  on Mr Bs credit  file.
loans one to five
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt unreasonable of Sunny to agree these loans based 
on the information it held about  Mr B.
As Mr B hasnt  raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans 
one to five, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Bs lending with Sunny  to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more 
money to Mr B.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
six. I say this because:
By this point Mr B had been  borrowing almost continually for 6 months  without any 
significant break in the lending. So Sunny shouldve seen  that it was likely Mr B had 
to borrow again to cover the hole left by repaying  each  earlier loan. This suggests 
that Mr B couldnt sustainably afford  to repay what he had borrowed without 
borrowing again.
Mr B took out a loan whilst the previous one was still running or repaid the loans 
early. This would further suggest  that Mr B was having problems  managing his 
money and wasnt using the loans for their intended purpose.
Ref: DRN40884083I think that Mr B lost out because Sunny continued  to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards. This is because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short term use over an extended  period  of time.
the number  of loans, combined with the total length of time Mr B had been  borrowing 
from Sunny was likely  to have had negative implications on his ability  to access  
mainstream credit. This kept Mr B in the market for these  high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint about  loans six to 14
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr B paid on loans six to 14;
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken from loan six onwards  means  any information recorded  
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans six to 14 should  be removed from 
Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and direct  Elevate Credit
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4088408