K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs M says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her the PPI. 
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Halifax in the rest of my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mrs M says she didnt  know  PPI was added to her credit card  and so it was done without 
her knowledge.  Halifax  has given me information  from its internal  systems that show the sale 
took place in one of its branches.  Halifax has also given me a copy of Mrs Ms signed credit  
card application  form  which is consistent  with this being a branch sale. 
On it I can see theres a section called  Product details. Theres some wording in here that 
says If you would like to take advantage of these services please mark the relevant boxes. 
Next to where it says Credit Card Repayments  Cover theres a box with a printed cross  in it. 
I cant know exactly what was said to Mrs M. So I need to decide on what  I think is most 
likely to have happened. And based on what Ive seen on the application form, I think its 
most likely a detailed  discussion about  the PPI took place and Halifax made  it clear  that 
Mrs M didnt  have to take out the PPI  and that she chose to take it out. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. And 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time  including  what shes  said about 
her sick pay entitlement   I think that it was. For example she wasnt  affected  by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.   
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she most likely chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said - including what shes  said about her parents 
helping out. But help from others  cant safely be relied upon  especially as their 
circumstances can change. Ive also thought about what  Mrs Ms representatives have  said 
about Halifax not telling her she could  get PPI from another independent  source. But Halifax 
was not under any duty to do that. 
Lastly, Ive taken into consideration what Mrs M has said about  being ineligible  to claim job 
seekers allowance due to her personal circumstances at the time. But I havent seen any 
evidence of why this would be the case.  And nor am I persuaded this wouldve been the 
Ref: DRN46654002case given what I know about  her circumstances at the time. So I dont need to look into this 
any further. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs M paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs M back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs M now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4665400