K820x#14complaint
Mrs K has complained about interest shes been  charged by Creation Financial Services  
Limited on her credit  card.
background
Mrs K holds a credit  card provided by Creation. She usually clears the full outstanding  
balance every month so she isnt charged any interest.
In March 2018 Mrs K had a balance on her credit  card of £268.15. Unfortunately,  on this 
occasion she didnt  make any payment by the due date. She actually paid £268.15 to 
Creation twice, but the payments were six days late.
In April 2018 Creation  charged Mrs K £36.61 interest. She complained that the interest 
hadnt been calculated correctly. Creation didnt uphold her complaint and she referred  it to 
this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She thought the interest 
had been calculated in accordance with the terms and conditions of the credit card.
Mrs K didnt agree with our investigators  recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The credit card terms and conditions say interest  is calculated on the average daily 
outstanding balance since the previous statement date. They  go on to say interest wont  be 
charged if you pay off the whole balance on the Statement and on the previous Statement 
by the payment due date shown on your Statement.
The effect of the terms and conditions is that, if a payment is made late, Creation can charge 
interest on the average balance for the month to which the payment relates and on the 
average balance  during  the following month.
In April 2018 Mrs K hadnt paid off the whole  balance on her previous statement by the due 
date. This meant Creation  was entitled  to charge her interest on her average balance 
between the dates of her statements in February and March because  she hadnt paid off the 
balance on that statement  by the due date. Creation was also entitled to charge her interest  
on her average balance between the dates of her statements in March and April because 
she hadnt paid off the balance on her previous statement by the due date.
Mrs K made purchases on her credit card in late March 2018  which  increased  the balance  to 
over £2,000. The average balance on her card for the period covered by her March 
statement was £231.07 and she was charged interest at 1.453%  amounting  to £3.36 for that 
month. But the average balance for the April statement was £2,288.66 so interest  for that 
month at 1.453% amounted to £33.25. Im satisfied Creation correctly calculated  interest  for 
March and April.
Ref: DRN46540522When it gave Mrs K its final response to her complaint Creation endeavoured  to explain to 
her how it had calculated  the interest.  The explanation wasnt  correct. It only referred  to 
interest for one month and it quoted the wrong  interest rate. Its disappointing that Creation 
didnt give Mrs K correct information when it responded to her complaint. However, this 
didnt cause her any financial loss because the interest shed been charged was correct. It 
would have caused Mrs K some  trouble  and upset but Im not persuaded this was sufficiently 
material to justify a payment of compensation to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make no 
award against Creation Financial Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4654052