K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Lloyds Bank PLC trading as TSB mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy. 
background
Mr W bought the policy  in 1997 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint.  Ill explain why.
Lloyds shouldve made it clear the PPI was optional. And it shouldve got Mr Ws 
agreement to buy it. Mr W says it wasnt made clear to him that the PPI was optional.  
Mr W bought the PPI policy in a meeting.  Mr W and Lloyds havent  been able to 
provide much detail  about what was said in this meeting. And there isnt much 
paperwork from the time of sale either. Thats understandable given the time that has 
passed. But it means I dont know what was discussed. So Ive thought carefully  
about what Mr W and Lloyds have  said. And Ive also used what  I know  about Lloyds 
sales processes to help me make my decision.  This includes the sample application 
form its provided which shows Mr W wouldve needed to choose to buy the PPI.   
Having done  this, I dont have enough to say that its likely Lloyds told Mr W that he 
needed to buy a PPI policy to get the card.  Overall I think its more  likely  that Lloyds 
made Mr W aware that he had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that he chose to 
take it.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr W, so it shouldve made sure it was right for him. 
Mr W says he didnt need the policy as he wouldve received  some sick pay from his 
employer. Mr W says he would also have received some  redundancy pay. 
But if Mr W couldnt work for a long period  of time its possible that he could still find 
making the card repayments difficult. The policy wouldve repaid 10% of Mr Ws 
credit card balance for up to twelve months  if hed been too ill to work or if hed lost 
his job. This would be in addition to any sick pay, or redundancy pay, he might  
receive.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Mr W couldnt afford  to make the monthly payments for 
the PPI at the time of sale. And he doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of 
the main things the policy  didnt cover such as pre-existing medical conditions.  So it 
seems to have been right for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time. 
Ref: DRN42603732Ive considered the information provided at the time of sale.  Lloyds cant  show how it 
explained the policy to Mr W. So its possible  the information Lloyds gave Mr W about  
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  
But as I said earlier, based on what I know about Mr W circumstances, it looks  like 
the policy couldve been useful to him. So I dont think better information wouldve 
stopped him buying  it. And I dont  think Mr Ws lost out due to anything that Lloyds 
mightve done wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4260373