K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Uncle Buck Finance  LLP lent him money he couldnt  afford  to repay.
background
Mr L took out six loans  with Uncle  Buck between  October 2016 and January 2018. A 
summary of his loans  are as follows:
Loan no.
Date of Loan Amount of 
loanNumber of Instalments 
(including max monthly 
repayment)Date loan 
settled
1 17/10/2016 £100 3 @ £44 28/10/2016
2 28/12/2016 £400 3 @ £202 27/1/2017
3 3/5/2017 £200 3 @ £98 26/5/2017
4 8/7/2017 £600 3 @ £283 28/7/2017
5 28/9/2017 £600 3 @ £301 27/10/2017
6 30/1/2018 £500 4 @ £200 23/2/2018
Mr L says that it was irresponsible of Uncle Buck to agree to lend to him. Mr L says he was 
stuck in a cycle of repeated borrowing from a number of different payday lenders.  
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ls complaint be upheld  in part. The adjudicator 
thought that Uncle Bucks  checks  went far enough before agreeing loans one and two. 
The adjudicator thought  that if Uncle Buck had carried out proportionate checks before loans 
three to six, it wouldnt have agreed to lend. The adjudicator asked Uncle Buck to refund the 
interest and charges that Mr L had paid on loans three to six. He also asked  Uncle Buck  to 
pay interest on the refund and remove any negative entries about the affected loans from  
Mr Ls credit  file.
Uncle Buck  doesnt  agree  with all of the adjudicators recommendation. Uncle  Buck is 
prepared to put things right for loans four and six but not loans three  and five.
Uncle Buck  says that the checks it carried out before loans three  and five indicated that Mr L 
could afford  the repayments. 
Mr L isnt willing to accept  Uncle Bucks offer so the complaint has come  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Uncle Buck  was required to make  sure Mr L could repay any money  that it lent to him in a 
sustainable way  that is without borrowing further. Any checks  had to be proportionate to 
things such as the amount of the loans, the repayments and any borrowing history.  But there 
wasnt a set list of checks  Uncle Buck had to carry out.
Ref: DRN48428682loans four and six
Uncle Buck  has already  offered to put things  right for loans four and six. As it doesnt appear 
that these loans are in dispute, I dont think I need to say anything more  about them.
loans one and two
Mr L hadnt borrowed from Uncle Buck before so it didnt have any lending  history to 
consider. Uncle  Buck  says that it asked Mr L for details of his income and expenses.  
It looked as though Mr L has about £400  of disposable income from his monthly  salary  of 
around £1,400.  Based  on this information, I consider it was reasonable  of Uncle  Buck to 
agree loans one and two without asking to see further evidence.
loan three
Mr L asked for loan three just over three months  after repaying  loan two. Mr L was due to 
repay the loan by monthly instalments of around £100. 
I appreciate that Uncle Buck says that the credit report it had at the time said that he had 12 
active accounts, two active  short term loans with an outstanding balance  of £500 and no 
defaults or CCJs.
Uncle Bucks credit  search showed that lenders had searched Mr Ls credit file 57 times in 
the previous 12 months. The search  also revealed 41 accounts relating to loan and 
instalment credit. I agree  with the adjudicator that Uncle Buck  had enough information to 
suggest that Mr L might have more short term loans at the time than appeared on the credit  
report.
As Uncle Buck hasnt  given me any evidence to suggest that it asked Mr L about  his short 
term lending commitments, I dont think its checks were proportionate.
Mr L was due to pay other  short term lenders around £800. When  added  to Mr Ls declared 
expenses, he wasnt left with enough disposable income to afford the repayments  on loan 
three. If Uncle Buck had discovered this with a proportionate check, I dont think  it wouldve 
agreed to lend.
loan five
By the time Mr L borrowed from Uncle Buck in September 2017, Uncle Buck  shouldve  been 
aware of his borrowing history and done more to check whether he could afford  the loans. 
Particularly as Uncle Bucks credit check showed that Mr Ls credit file had been  searched 
24 times in the previous three months.  
Although I accept that not all of the searches  necessarily related to short  term loan accounts, 
I think Uncle Buck had enough  information  to be concerned that Mr L was using loans for 
general living costs  rather than to help with one-off expenses.
The pattern  of lending shouldve reasonably prompted Uncle  Buck to try and get a 
comprehensive picture of Mr Ls finances. It couldve done this by asking to see bills or bank 
statements for example.
Ref: DRN48428683Mr L had monthly living  expenses,  regular  and short term living costs of around  £1,045.  This 
figure doesnt include food and petrol costs. So taking account  of Mr Ls income and 
outgoings, he didnt  have enough disposable  income to be able to afford to repay  loan five.
I appreciate that Uncle Buck says it spoke  to Mr L before agreeing loan five but I dont know  
much of what was discussed during the call. I also think that Uncle  Buck had enough 
information to suggest that Mr L might not have disclosed the full extent of his liabilities as 
part of the process.  Although its reasonable of Uncle Buck  to expect a customer  to give an 
accurate description  of their financial situation  as part of a loan application, that doesnt  
mean that Uncle Buck shouldnt have considered that it might not know  enough about Mr L 
to decide whether to lend.
If Uncle Buck had looked at Mr Ls financial circumstances  in as much  detail  as I think  was 
proportionate, I dont think it wouldve agreed loans  three and five. 
Overall, Mr L has lost out so Uncle Buck should  compensate him more  than its offered to so 
far.
putting things right
To put things right Uncle Buck  should:
Refund any interest and charges paid on loans three to six;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
Remove any negative  information recorded about loans three to six from Mr Ls credit  
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint in part and direct Uncle Buck  Finance LLP to 
put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4842868