K821x#15Complaint
Mr F is seeking  to recover just over £60,000 from Barclays Bank  UK PLC which  was stolen 
from his bank account as a result of a third-party scam.
Background
Between 13 September 2018  and 25 October 2018, Mr F made three international online 
payments for £15,150, £22,725 and £22,575  to accounts in Hong Kong and Singapore. Mr F 
made the payments after he was contacted by fraudsters purporting to be an investment 
company based  in Hong Kong and offered him shares in a luxury  car brand. 
The fraudsters had spoofed a genuine company in Hong Kong.  They  said they could sell 
Mr F shares  at a discounted price of £7.50  before they were  offered to the public. And that 
he should hurry  as the offer wouldnt be available for very long. Convinced by what  hed 
been told, Mr F decided  to invest. And made  the first payment to purchase  what he believed 
to be 2,000 shares.  
The fraudsters said it could offer him more shares  at the discounted rate. So, Mr F sent a 
second payment  to buy 3,000 shares. The fraudsters  told Mr F it had sold his 5,000  shares  
for £19 per share to a hedge fund company and hed get a return in excess  of £90,000. The 
fraudsters then said theyd managed  to buy up the remaining £7.50 shares which  took Mr Fs 
holding to just under 13,000 shares.  And that they had now managed to sell all shares for 
£15 each to the same  hedge fund. But he needed  to pay a 12% deposit  bond in order to get 
his funds released. Convinced by what the fraudsters told him, and believing  hed receive a 
hefty return on his investment,  Mr F made  a third payment. Mr F says the fraudsters  then 
told him that it had sold his shares for £18 per share. And tried to get him to pay another  
bond, which he refused.  
Mr F has explained  that the fraudsters set up a fake investment account, sent him brochures  
and other  paperwork  including trade  confirmation receipts, which  duped  Mr F into believing  
he was buying  shares  in a luxury car manufacturer. Mr F says he is not an experienced 
investor and up to this point the extent of his investment experience extended to just one 
rental property. He said hed spoken  to the fraudsters  on the phone all of whom were very 
convincing, provided  credible employment and career histories and came across as very 
professional. They  told him that the firm was properly regulated in Hong Kong to reassure  
him his money  was safe. So, he was persuaded by what  the fraudsters had told him.
Mr F realised hed been scammed soon after sending the third payment, when he 
discovered the trading account  the fraudsters had set up for him was simulated   meaning it 
didnt have the ability to trade on the live stock market. Mr F also realised hed not had a 
response for his funds  to be released following the alleged sale of his shares. So, he alerted 
Barclays and asked  the bank to get his money back.
At this point Mr F contacted the Hong Kong and Singapore police. He also instructed a law 
firm to contact  the genuine  company spoofed by the fraudsters. It said it too had been the 
victim of a scam and were going to the police.  Mr F contacted the Hong Kong regulator who 
confirmed that the company used by the fraudsters wasnt regulated  to carry out 
investments. The Hong Kong and Singapore  police  told Mr F that it couldnt help him as it 
hadnt been able to track down the fraudsters. 
Barclays accepted  Mr F had been  the victim of a scam. But says its not liable for the 
Ref: DRN42384102£60,462 loss because Mr F unwittingly authorised the payments  and it could not 
reasonably have intervened or done  more to try to recoup the money from the payee banks. 
Barclays told Mr F to contact the police overseas. However, Barclays  accepted  it should  
have provided  Mr F with better service because it didnt take any action when Mr F first 
contacted the bank  about the scam  on 13 November 2018.  And didnt react until Mr F 
contacted the bank  again on 19 November 2018.  Barclays apologised and offered Mr F £225 
compensation.
After considering all the evidence,  on 13 November  2020, I issued a provisional decision on 
this complaint. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
1.Its common ground that Mr F authorised the three scam payments totalling just over 
£60,000. He was duped by scammers  into instructing Barclays  to transfer the money for 
an investment for shares he believed he was buying. The scammers deceived  him over 
the phone  and via emails into thinking  the investment  was legitimate, telling him it could 
offer him shares at discounted rates and had sold his shares to a hedge  fund for 150% 
profit. The scammers used the name of a genuine business in Hong Kong and provided 
him with authentic literature, so Mr F believed he was dealing  with a legitimate firm.
2.I accepted that these  were authorised payments even though Mr F was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. He used his security credentials to request the payments. So, 
although he didnt  intend the money to go to the fraudster, under the Payment  Services  
Regulations 2017, Mr F was presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
3.However, taking into account,  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I 
considered Barclays  should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received to counter  
various risks,  including anti-money  laundering, countering  the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud  and scams.
Have had systems  in place to look out for unusual  transactions  or other signs that 
might indicate  that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer.  
Conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for 
Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the interests  of its customers (Principle  6). 
Look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual  or out of 
character transactions  that could involve  fraud  or be the result  of a scam  
something also recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 
Protecting Customers from Financial  harm as a result of fraud and financial abuse  
Code of Practice, which a number of banks and trade associations  were involved in 
the development of.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel  used, have  taken 
additional steps,  or make  additional  checks, before processing  a payment. Or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm or fraud.  
Ref: DRN423841034.Considering  all of this, I need to decide  whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in 
its dealings with Mr F or whether it should have done more than it did. In particular, when 
he transferred £15,150 from his savings account to an account in Hong Kong, and a 
further £22,725 and £22,575 to an account  in Singapore, which were all accounts  and 
payees he hadnt previously had any dealings  with.
5.I thought carefully  about the first payment Mr F made for £15,150. In doing so, Ive 
reviewed Mr Fs account statements and the way he operated his savings account. I can 
see Mr F doesnt make regular large international transfers out of his savings account to 
new payees. Any payments out of the account  tended to be for much  less, and mostly to 
another account in Mr Fs name.
6.Of significance is that between October 2017  and 1 August 2018 there were only two 
transactions on the account  on 6 February 2018, when £3,000 was paid into the 
account and then paid out on 11 May 2018. The account balance before and after these 
transactions was just over £500, until Mr F, transferred a large amount of money into the 
account in mid-August  2018. So, I think the payment of £15,150 was unusual  and 
uncharacteristic for him and the account.  Particularly as the payment  was being sent to a 
newly created international payee in Hong Kong. And therefore, Barclays  should have 
intervened and asked Mr F some  questions about what  he was doing. Given  the 
information the return on the investment Mr F was being  promised seemed too good  to 
be true,  I think its likely  Barclays  would have identified and explained to Mr F that there  
was a high probability  he was the unwitting victim of a scam.  Having heard this, I dont 
think Mr F would  have  proceeded  to make the transfer. And wouldve done some more  
research.
7.My conclusions,  about what is likely to have happened if Barclays had intervened and 
asked some probing questions, are reinforced  by the fact that Mr F had done some  
research on the company  beforehand. This clearly shows he was trying  to verify the 
validity of the investment  company. Mr Fs actions, once he became  suspicious about 
the legitimacy of the investment, also persuades me that he would have dug deeper and 
checked further into the matter. I say this because  once his suspicions were confirmed, 
Mr F contacted the genuine company, checked with the Hong Kong regulator, contacted 
the police  and instructed a law firm. So, had Barclays,  his bank and trusted financial 
institution, warned  him that the investment didnt sound plausible  and he could be 
dealing with a cloned company (contrary to the research he had already carried  out 
which was invalid), Im persuaded Mr F wouldve wanted to go away and do further 
checks.
8.Mr F thought he was making  a genuine investment. Hed done  some research and so I 
think he would have  been able to explain what he was doing if Barclays  had contacted 
him. He knew that the company used by the fraudsters  wasnt  regulated in the UK. But 
he believed they were regulated in Hong Kong based on the literature the fraudsters had 
sent him. I think once  Barclays had found out that Mr F was making payments to fund an 
investment via accounts based in Hong  Kong  and Singapore  the bank ought to have  
fairly and reasonably  asked Mr F some questions about  the investment  such  as how 
he heard  about it, what return  hed been promised, and had he checked whether  the 
company was regulated in Hong Kong.
 
9.The details of the investment shouldve indicated to Barclays  that something wasnt  quite 
right. Mr F has said his investment had made a 150% return over a period of less than a 
month. Whilst I dont expect Barclays staff to have in depth investment knowledge, I 
Ref: DRN42384104would expect them to have enough  banking knowledge to understand that this seemed 
just too good to be true.
10.Investment  scams are well known, especially ones where the scam companies  use 
cloned details  of a legitimate business.  With this in mind, upon  hearing the details  of the 
investment, I wouldve expected Barclays  to probe  further,  caution  Mr F to the risks and 
suggest he check in with the overseas regulator before proceeding. It seems likely,  given 
this was more  than 50% of Mr Fs savings, that this wouldve  made  him think twice 
before proceeding. Had he checked  with the regulator, as he subsequently did, it 
wouldve come  to light that the company  he was dealing with wasnt  registered with the 
regulator. The genuine company didnt deal in financial products at all and the regulator 
wouldve been able to tell Mr F this and break  the spell.
11.Even if I thought Barclays didnt  do anything wrong by not intervening on the first 
payment, which for the avoidance  of doubt, I think it did, then I think it fell short  on what  I 
would expect in allowing  Mr F to make the second  and third payments.
 
12.I say this because  Mr F made a second, even larger payment less than two weeks  after 
the first. Followed by the largest payment  just under a month later.  These payments 
were being made to a different account  in Singapore,  which  again was a newly created 
international payee. 
13.To encourage Mr F to part with his money, and make a second payment, the fraudsters 
told Mr F he was able to buy shares  before they were being  made  available to the public. 
And for a lot cheaper at £7.50   the genuine  shares were intended to be sold for 
between £17.50 and £22.50 per share. So, he made a second payment. The fraudsters  
told Mr F theyd  sold all his shares  to a hedge  fund company  for £18 per share, which  
was nearly three times the amount  Mr F had paid. But he needed a 12% bond before the 
buyers bank would release the funds.  So, convinced by what hed been told, Mr F made 
a third payment  and transferred  £22,575,  to the account in Singapore.
 
14.As a matter  of good practice Barclays should  have been on the lookout for unusual  or 
out of character transactions. I believe the payment Mr F made  on 13 September 2018 
for £15,150 and subsequent two payments were clearly out of character for Mr F. At the 
very basic level, these payments were a change to Mr Fs usage of the account,  in that 
this activity was very different to what had happened for almost a year. The payments 
also reduced Mr Fs savings account  balance by 50%. Therefore, I think  there were three 
triggers, which Barclays ought reasonably to have detected and acted upon in line with 
its duty of care and good industry  practice, for example by making  enquiries  with Mr F 
about the payments. Had Barclays contacted Mr F, Im persuaded they wouldve more 
than likely been able to detect Mr F was being  scammed and that something was amiss.
15.Overall, Im persuaded  Barclays ought fairly  and reasonably to have done more  in terms 
of intervening and questioning Mr F about  the nature and purpose  of the three  payments. 
And Im persuaded that if Barclays had intervened it would have made a difference.
16.In light of my conclusions above, its not necessary in this case  to consider whether  the 
bank also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from 
the payee bank. But for completeness, I will say that, whilst there was about  a weeks  
delay by Barclays at this stage, it would have  made no difference because the receiving 
banks records show that it had been unable  to trace the account holders and referred the 
bank to the police. As the investigator explained, international banks require permission 
Ref: DRN42384105from their account holders  to give the money back.  Given the circumstances, I think  it 
would have been highly unlikely any consent  would have been  obtained,  which is why 
the banks referred  Barclays to the police. Ive also kept in mind that Mr F made his 
payments in September and October  2018,  so I think its also likely, the money was 
already gone by the time Barclays contacted  the banks overseas.
 
17.However, Barclays accepts it should  have provided better  service  to Mr F and should  
have acknowledged  his emails when he first reported the scam to the bank on 13 
November 2018. Mr F had to contact  the bank again  on 19 November 2018 to report  
what had happened. Mr F had to spend time making further calls to the bank to try and 
sort things out, which Ive no doubt  would have added  to Mr Fs stress  during which  was 
already an upsetting  time for him. I can see Barclays has offered Mr F £225  
compensation before he brought his complaint to our service. And having considered the 
impact of Barclays poor service,  I think this is a fair and reasonable offer.
 
18.I have  also considered whether  Mr F should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. However, its clear that up to and including  the time of 
authorising the payment, he was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate that 
he wasnt dealing with a genuine company. He had done some research and received 
convincing paperwork that convinced him he was dealing with a genuine and regulated  
business. Unlike Barclays,  he wasnt aware companies could be cloned or this was a 
common scam. Im therefore satisfied  there  was no contributory  negligence on this 
occasion. Mr F was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever  fraudster.
 
19.In these circumstances, Im satisfied Barclays should fairly and reasonably reimburse  
Mr F for the loss he suffered without  any reduction together  with interest  to compensate  
him for being deprived of the money  he lost. Im satisfied that had the fraudster  not taken 
the money from Mr F it would  have  remained in his savings account,  so interest should 
be at that rate.
 
I also thought  it appropriate to make  an award of £300 for the distress  and inconvenience 
Mr F has suffered. Hes understandably  found things difficult since the scam. And has been 
caused an immense amount of worry  and inconvenience. In reaching  that conclusion  I was 
mindful that his loss was ultimately  caused  by the actions  of the fraudsters and the 
transactions were  authorised, but Barclays could ultimately have prevented the payments.
So subject to any further representation from Mr F or Barclays,  my provisional decision was 
to uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct the bank to:
Refund Mr F £60,462 he lost through the scam 
Pay interest on that sum at the savings  account rate from the date of loss to the date 
of refund
Pay Mr F £225 for the inconvenience he suffered as a result of Barclays poor service 
when he first reported the scam
Pay Mr F £300 for the material  distress and inconvenience he experienced 
Mr F accepted my provisional decision.  Barclays asked for more information  which  was 
provided by the investigator  namely  details of some payments Mr F had made  from his 
personal account and copies of correspondence between him and the scammers. After  it 
had considered the information provided,  Barclays  disagreed with the provisional decision. In 
summary the bank  said:
Ref: DRN42384106It cant understand why Mr F didnt  become suspicious about  the scam when the 
rates of return seemed too good  to be true, and an investment company from Hong 
Kong contacted  him directly  offering  him preferential rates,  rather than other 
experienced investors on the market.
Mr F was looking to invest  his money, so any spending related  to an investment 
would in itself be a change in behaviour and
In August 2018, Mr F made  four payments to new payees,  one of which  was larger  
than all three of the disputed payments.  So, the value of the disputed payments isnt 
out of character.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
this complaint should be upheld, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision which I 
have reproduced  above, and which now form part of this final decision.
Im not persuaded by the additional  comments Barclays has made, but I will make  some 
further points  on Barclays response to my provisional decision.
Barclays has pointed to four large payments on 20 and 23 August 2018, which  Mr F made 
and says this shows  the fraudulent payments werent out of character for him. And says as 
Mr F was looking to invest any spending related to an investment wouldnt have been out of 
character. So, in other words, the bank wasnt wrong when it decided not to intervene and 
question Mr F about what he was doing. 
I disagree with Barclays view that the transactions in question werent out of character. I set 
out the reasons why I considered this to be the case in my provisional decision.  I explained 
why I thought Mr Fs account  activity changed during the period of the scam from the period 
of activity which preceded  it. Mr F hadnt  made any international  payments from his savings 
account to new payees and had hardly used the account for nearly a year, which  in my view 
reflected fraudulent activity. So, I dont have anything further  to add on this point.  
Prior to issuing this decision, I asked Mr F about  the four payments he made  in August 2018. 
He explained  that two of the payments were actually  early repayments of loans he had with 
Barclays, (including the largest). One of the other payments were to Mr Fs wife to a UK 
bank account  and the payment on 23 August 2018, for £5,400, was a deposit for a flat hed 
bought in the UK. None  of the payments were made to an international payee. And were 
made from a different  account. So, I remain of the view that these payments were  quite 
different and out of character to the payments Mr F made to the scammers.  
Barclays has also said that it cant understand why Mr F didnt have any suspicion that he 
was being scammed.  As I explained in my provisional decision, Mr F was the victim of 
sophisticated scam, I dont think Mr Fs actions,  whilst he was under the spell of a scam, 
means Barclays shouldnt  have done more,  and that he shouldnt  now be compensated. As I 
said in my provisional decision, I dont think it would have taken much  for a third party (such 
as Barclays) to have broken the spell. I remain of the view that had Barclays got in touch 
with Mr F and asked him some probing  questions  about the payments, and warned him he 
might be the victim of a scam,  Mr Fs suspicions  would have been triggered to such an 
extent that the spell he was under would  have been broken, and he wouldnt have sent any 
money to the scammer. 
Ref: DRN42384107Overall, Im satisfied that had Barclays taken the steps I think ought fairly and reasonably to 
have taken, the scam would have been  prevented.  It follows  that Im satisfied the three 
transactions wouldnt have taken place,  and Mr F wouldnt have  lost the money  he did. 
Barclays accepts it should have provided better service to Mr F and should  have 
acknowledged his emails when he first reported  the scam to the bank  on 13 November 
2018. Mr F had to contact  the bank again  on 19 November  2018 to report  what  had 
happened. Mr F had to spend time making  further calls to the bank to try and sort things out, 
which Ive no doubt would  have added to Mr Fs stress during which  was already an 
upsetting time for him. I can see Barclays has offered Mr F £225 compensation before he 
brought his complaint to our service. And having considered the impact  of Barclays  poor 
service, I think this is a fair and reasonable offer. So, Im not going  to ask Barclays  to do 
anything more to resolve  this aspect of Mr Fs complaint.
Finally, Ive also considered whether Barclays should pay Mr F compensation for the trouble 
and upset hes experienced  as a result of Barclays actions. Mr F has understandably found 
things difficult since the scam. And he has been caused an immense amount of worry and 
inconvenience. In reaching this conclusion  I am mindful that his loss was ultimately caused 
by the actions of the fraudsters and the transactions were authorised, but Barclays  could 
ultimately have prevented  the payments. So, Im persuaded  that some of the emotional  
impact Mr F experienced could have been avoided.  And its for these reasons, I think 
Barclays should pay Mr F £300 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint.  So, I require  Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Refund Mr F £60,462 he lost through the scam 
Pay interest on that sum at the savings  account rate from the date of loss to the date 
of refund
Pay Mr F £225 for the inconvenience he suffered as a result of Barclays poor service 
when he first reported the scam
Pay Mr F £300 for the material  distress and inconvenience he experienced 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 January 2021.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4238410