K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Emergency Cash Limited  gave him loans that he couldnt afford to 
repay. He asks that it refunds  interest and charges and removes  negative  information about 
the loans from his credit file.
background
Mr A took out four loans  with wizzcash between September  2016  and July 2017. He says 
the loans werent  affordable.
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint  should be upheld  in part. He said it wasnt 
wrong for wizzcash to offer loans  1 and 3. He said proportionate checks  wouldnt have 
shown the loans werent affordable. But wizzcash should have known from the information it 
had and Mr As borrowing  pattern that loans 2 and 4 werent affordable  and sustainable.
wizzcash agreed. Mr A didnt agree  so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice  on our website. 
wizzcash needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr As income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Mr A took out the following loans with wizzcash:
Loan No amount Date of loan Highest monthly repayment
Date repaid
Loan 1 £200 15.09.2016 3 x £90 25.11.2016
Loan 2 £200 06.12.2016 3 x £96 23.12.2016
Loan 3 £200 13.04.2017 3 x £91 30.06.2017
Loan 4 £400 02.07.2017 3 x £197 -
loan 1:
When he applied for loan 1 Mr A told wizzcash his monthly income was £1,430. wizzcash  
says it verified this. wizzcash asked Mr A for his monthly outgoings, which  he said were  
about £910. wizzcash increased  this following its credit check to £1,270. It says it did credit  
checks and the results didnt suggest  Mr A would have problems repaying the loan. 
Given Mr As stated  income and the amount of the repayments, I think  these checks  were 
proportionate. The information wizzcash received suggested the loan was affordable. 
Ref: DRN42602882loan 3:
When he applied for loan 3 Mr A told wizzcash his monthly income was £1,430. wizzcash  
increased his stated monthly expenditure to £951 following its credit check. Given Mr As 
stated income and the amount of the repayments,  I think these checks  were proportionate. 
The information wizzcash received suggested the loan was affordable. 
loans 2 and 4:
wizzcash agreed with the adjudicators recommendation  that it shouldnt  have  offered  these  
loans. So I wont discuss them further here.
Mr A comments:
Mr A says wizzcashs  checks should  have revealed  he had other short  term loans 
outstanding when he took out these loans. He said he didnt tell wizzcash about his other  
short term loans as he needed the loans  from wizzcash to meet  his living  costs and debt 
repayments. 
I understand Mr As frustration here.  But I dont think I can reasonably  find that wizzcash 
should have known about Mr As other  short term loans. It asked Mr A about his outgoings,  
including his monthly credit commitments and other  credit commitments.  And it did a credit  
check. Mr A might well have had short term loans  that wizzcash didnt know about, for 
instance if information about them wasnt available when it did the credit  check. And Mr A 
says he didnt tell wizzcash  about his other short term loans.  
wizzcash might have  seen the extent  of Mr As use of short term loans (and other evidence  
of financial difficulties)  if it had carried out more  detailed checks, such as reviewing his bank 
statements. But I dont think this would have been  proportionate for loans 1 and 3.
what should happen now?
Im upholding Mr As complaint about loans 2 and 4. wizzcash should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr A paid on loans 2 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove all adverse  entries about  loan 2 and all entries about loan 4 from Mr As credit 
file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Wizzcash to take off tax from this interest.  It must give 
Mr A a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Emergency Cash  Limited  to take the steps 
and pay the compensation set out above,  as its agreed to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4260288