K820x#14complaint
Ms G and Mr S have complained that The Co-operative Bank  Plc didnt  do enough to help 
them when they fell victim  to a scam.  They feel that The Co-op  should  refund them  the 
money they lost.
The complaint is being led by Ms G and as such,  I will mostly  just be referring to Ms G in this 
decision.
background
On 19 March 2019 Ms G made a payment of £2,400 from the couples Co-op current 
account to someone  who she thought was her plumber. The plumber contacted  Ms G on 22 
March 2019 to apologise for not having invoiced yet, although he was happy to start the 
work anyway. It therefore quickly became apparent to Ms G that she had made the payment 
to a scammer who had impersonated the plumber and who had sent Ms G an email 
containing their own bank details instead  of the plumbers. On finding this out, Ms G 
contacted The Co-op on Saturday  23 March 2019 to explain what  had happened.  She was 
told that the Fraud Team  didnt  work at the weekend and that she should call back  on 
Monday. She then did call back on Monday 25 March 2019  and spoke to the Fraud Team. 
The Co-op contacted the scammers bank to see if any of Ms Gs money could be retrieved. 
But the scammers bank  confirmed that no money remained from Ms Gs transaction.
Ms G complained to The Co-op that it should refund the money anyway,  due to the 
sophisticated nature of the scam that resulted in her losing  money,  despite  having taken 
great care to try and ensure the transaction was legitimate. The Co-ops response was that it 
would not be refunding  the money. However, it offered her £50 for distress  and 
inconvenience as a result  of being given incorrect information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
Having done so, I think The Co-op  acted  fairly  and reasonably in allowing the transfer to 
leave Ms Gs account. And, whilst  there was an initial delay in Ms G being able to speak to 
the Fraud Team, that didnt have an impact on the funds being recoverable.  So, I cant fairly 
say that The Co-op  should reimburse  Ms G with the £2,400 she lost. Ill explain why in more 
detail.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. When  Ms G 
made the payment, she didnt know she was dealing with a scammer,  so she sent the 
money in good  faith. This means that  at the time  she wanted the payment to go ahead  
and authorised it to be made. And I have taken that into account when deciding what  is fair 
and reasonable in this case.
Ref: DRN42869112But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer.  
In this case, I need to decide  whether The Co-op  acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings 
with Ms G when she transferred £2,400  or whether it should have done more than it did. But 
I dont think the payment  was particularly suspicious or unusual enough to say The Co-op 
ought to have had concerns that Ms G was being  scammed. I dont think  it was sufficiently 
suspicious to conclude  The Co-op ought  to have identified that it may be potentially  
fraudulent. 
When Ms G told The Co-op that shed  been scammed,  it contacted the scammers bank to 
see if any money was still in the receiving account  and could be retrieved. It did this on 25 
March 2019, within two hours of Ms G finally speaking to the Fraud  Team.
As Ive already  mentioned,  when Ms G rang on a Saturday to report the scam,  she was told 
that the Fraud Team  didnt work  over the weekend. This was incorrect  information  the 
Fraud Team was available  and Ms G should  have been put through to them when she rang 
on 23 March 2019. Ms G says that the situation  was time critical. However, the beneficiary 
bank has confirmed that all of the funds  had been  removed from the scammers account by 
Ref: DRN4286911320 March 2019.  So even if Ms G had spoken  to The Co-ops Fraud  Team on 23 March 2019  
and it had contacted the beneficiary bank immediately, it would still have been the case that 
the funds had already gone and therefore could not be retrieved from the beneficiary bank.
Ms G says she does not accept the argument that it wouldnt have made a difference  if shed 
been able to speak to the Fraud Team on Saturday 23 March 2019. She says that, in solving 
a crime, time is of the essence and more  time would have assisted the chain of banks 
involved to work together to trace the funds. This is a slightly different issue  than whether or 
not The Co-op should have been  able to retrieve the funds. It is the responsibility of the 
beneficiary bank  to trace where the funds were  moved to thereafter. 
This decision is looking at whether The Co-op responded fairly and reasonably towards  
Ms G. In regard to its response  when Ms G made contact to report the scam,  clearly there 
was an error  in telling  her that the Fraud Team didnt work at weekends.  So Ive then gone 
on to look at whether  that caused Ms G any detriment. The funds  had left the scammers 
account by 20 March 2019, so it made  no difference that Ms G was unable to speak to the 
Fraud Team on 23 March  2019. The Co-op has offered  Ms G £50, partly in recognition  of the 
misinformation she was given at this time, which I consider to be reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Ms Gs main argument is that, regardless of being unable to retrieve  the funds from the 
beneficiary bank, The Co-op should  refund the money to her anyway. She feels that The Co-
op came  to its decision about this very quickly and so its clear it didnt really investigate  the 
issues involved. She says The Co-op shouldnt take a blanket approach to such cases  
because there are different types of scam.  It is the sophisticated nature of this scam that she 
says The Co-op  are failing to take into account.  In this case the scammer had hacked into 
the plumbers  email account  and had set up rules  on that account  that allowed  them  to send 
and intercept incoming  emails, then delete  them, all without the plumbers knowledge.  Ms G 
had met with the plumber in person initially and then carried on correspondence by email. 
The plumber had said he was sending  her an invoice, so it wasnt a surprise  when she 
received one shortly  afterward. The invoice was for the amount discussed and had the 
correct details and logo for the plumber. Shed double checked  that it had originated from the 
plumbers correct email  address. Therefore,  Ms G feels that she took all possible care in 
trying to ensure  that she was genuinely paying  the plumber.
Ms G says shes  been made to feel that the blame  lies fully with her because she authorised  
the payment.  I can understand  why Ms G feels this way and the frustration this must have 
caused. There is no doubt that this was a very sophisticated scam  and so it is totally  
understandable how Ms G came to fall victim to it. The blame, of course, lies squarely with 
the scammers.
In deciding whether  or not to refund Ms G, The Co-op needed to consider  a number of 
factors, as mentioned above, in accordance with what was good industry practice at the 
time. Having  done so, it came to the conclusion that it was not going  to refund the money to 
Ms G, which  overall, I consider was reasonable.
Ms G has made reference to a new code (the Contingent Reimbursement Model) that some  
banks implemented in May 2019 where, she says,  customers would be reimbursed in no 
blame scenarios.  She points to this as part of the changing landscape in the approach  to 
such scams.  However, I dont consider it would be fair to hold The Co-op  to a standard  that 
was beyond expected codes of good practice  at the time.
Ref: DRN42869114Its extremely unfortunate that Ms G has lost out. The whole experience of being scammed 
has clearly been  very upsetting. But in the circumstances, I cant  fairly say that The Co-op 
should have done more  to prevent that loss. I cant hold The Co-op responsible for Ms G 
having fallen victim to a scam. And I think The Co-op did all it could to help her once it knew  
what had happened. So it would not be fair to ask The Co-op to compensate Ms G for her 
loss.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Ms G and Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4286911