K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that Saga Services Limited  (Saga) cancelled his travel insurance 
policy prior to a trip he was planning  on taking.
background
Mr W booked  a holiday with Saga for him and his wife in 2017. Shortly  after he did this he 
contacted Saga and asked it to add travel insurance  onto the package. Saga duly did this 
and Mr W and his wife were sent details  in the post and via email, outlining  their insurance 
policy and holiday itinerary. Saga is the administrator of the insurance policy,  but not the 
underwriter. 
Unfortunately in May 2018 Mr W had to have a pacemaker fitted. He contacted  Saga to 
inform it of this as required by the terms and conditions of his policy. At this time the agent 
Mr W spoke to explained that Saga could no longer offer him insurance  cover and explained 
that if he needed to cancel the trip he could start a claim for cancellation. Alternatively if he 
still wanted to travel he would need  to arrange  insurance with another provider. 
Mr W confirmed  at that time he didnt expect  the trip to be cancelled  and at the very least 
Mrs W would  still be going. He asked  about  alternative insurance and the agent offered to 
transfer his call through to its sister  company  to see if it could offer him insurance cover 
instead. 
Mr W agreed to this. The agent explained that he would receive a partial refund, as Mrs Ws 
insurance with Saga  would remain in place, and transferred  the call through to the other  
insurance company  to see if it could help Mr W.
Mr W has since complained that this policy shouldnt have been cancelled  and he never 
received any documentation in the post explicitly stating the cover was no longer in place 
and had been cancelled.
Saga has said that it was entitled to cancel  the cover as per the terms and conditions  set out 
in the policy. It has also said that after the phone call with its agent Mr W received an 
updated travel itinerary  which  explained he was no longer  included  in the same insurance  
policy and that it issued him a refund of £42 which evidenced that the insurance cover had 
been cancelled.  
Mr W remained unhappy with Sagas response and so brought the complaint to us to 
consider. One of our investigators  looked into the complaint already, she found that Saga 
was entitled to cancel the policy  and that it was clearly explained to Mr W that the policy was 
being cancelled.  For those reasons she didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed  and 
asked for an ombudsman to look into the matter and so the complaint  has been passed  to 
me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not going to be 
upholding it and I would like to explain  why. 
Ref: DRN42797332Firstly I would like to clarify that Mr W has a second  complaint  with our service regarding  
what happened when  the second  policy was sold to him and when  he subsequently tried to 
make a claim on the second policy. This is a separate  complaint and so I will not be 
considering any aspect of that complaint in this decision. Instead this decision will only 
consider whether or not Saga was entitled to cancel the cover Mr W had in place since 2017 
and whether or not it made it clear to him that the policy  was being cancelled.  I should also 
make clear  that I am not considering the underwriting decision, rather only the administration 
of the policy.
When Mr W purchased  the insurance  policy in 2017  he and his wife had to fill out a medical 
declaration answering  multiple questions about his health and medical  history.  This was to 
allow the policy underwriter the opportunity to consider  the potential  risk attached to 
providing Mr and Mrs W with insurance.  Based on the answers they provided  they were  both 
offered cover.  However the policy does state that:
If, between booking a trip and the departure date, the status of a pre-existing medical 
condition changes, or you are diagnosed with a new medical  condition,  you must tell us as 
soon as possible If you still wish to travel, we will advise you if cover  is still available under 
this policy.
If we are unable to continue cover  we will
 pay a cancellation claim for any pre-booked  trip, or
 give a pro rata refund of your premium if you do not wish to cancel  your trip, unless a claim 
has been made
When Mr W called up and informed the Saga  agent he spoke  to that he had been fitted with 
a pacemaker a few weeks previously he was told that he could no longer be provided  with 
insurance. The agent asked Mr W if he had been told by a doctor that he was now unfit to 
travel and Mr W said he hadnt. At this time Mr W still intended to travel and so he wanted to 
find out about alternative insurance as opposed to cancelling the trip. 
As the underwriter couldnt provide Mr W with cover  any more Saga explained they would  be 
sending him a £42 refund  for the premium  he had paid when he purchased the policy. The 
insurance would stay in place  for Mrs W as previously arranged  but Mr W would need to find 
alternative cover with a different insurer. The £42 refund  was arranged and sent to Mr W 
along with updated travel documents which outlined that Mrs W was still under  the original 
insurance policy but Mr W was not. 
Looking at the policys terms and conditions, as outlined above, I cant  say that Saga did 
anything wrong  when it processed the cancellation of Mr Ws cover  in May 2018.  Mr W had 
been fitted with a pacemaker and as a result the underwriter  declined cover for him. As Mr W 
didnt want to cancel  the trip the obligation on Saga was to provide  him with a pro rata refund 
of the premium paid he had paid for the insurance policy. And I can see that Saga did this. 
Mr W has queried why he wasnt  sent any letters explicitly  stating the policy had been 
cancelled. I agree he didnt receive  a letter with this explicit sentence  in it. But I dont think  
this indicates Saga failed to inform Mr W that the policy was cancelled or that Mr W was 
unaware of what happened. 
When insurance policies  are cancelled we expect  underwriters  to inform consumers in 
writing so they know that they are no longer insured and can take necessary steps  to find 
alternative cover if necessary. It seems obvious to me that Mr W was aware he no longer 
had cover in place with Saga after he spoke to its agent in May 2018. Indeed he went on to 
Ref: DRN42797333arrange alternative cover with another provider. And Saga sent Mr W letters detailing his 
new travel  arrangements, which showed Mrs W the only person insured by the Saga policy 
and Mr W as insured by a separate provider.  And this, along with the refund of £42 he 
received, satisfies me that Mr W wouldve  known  his policy had been  cancelled. And so I 
cant say Saga failed  to notify Mr W that his cover  with it had been cancelled.  
Therefore, having  taken  everything into consideration, I cant say Saga did anything  wrong 
when it decided to cancel Mr Ws cover  or in how it communicated this cancellation to him. 
And because I cant say it did anything wrong  I cant uphold  Mr Ws complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint against Saga Services 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4279733