K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund money  he lost, after he fell victim  to a
scam.
background
I issued a provisional decision in February  2021. For ease, I provide a copy of the 
background as set out in my provisional decision below:
At the outset I think  it important to recognise that the circumstances of this particular case,
are not like those of a typical scam.
For ease  I have set out in the table below a list of the relevant transactions and events that I
deem to be important.
Date Description/ Type  of 
transactionAmount
August 2015 Account balance £124,897.54
April 2016 Account balance £121,097.54
29/1/16 Funds sent via a money 
transfer service  provider for 
GHC5280
2/2/16 Funds sent via a money 
transfer service  provider 
for GHC13474
4/2/16 Funds sent via a money 
transfer service  provider 
for GHC6245These were transfers Mr F 
says he made prior to those  
sent from his Lloyds account. 
Hes told us he transferred  
around 8,000  USD
7/4/16 Bank transfer foreign 
payment£21,877.05
18/4/16 Bank transfer foreign 
payment£14,431.06
5/5/16 Bank transfer foreign 
payment£3,566.59
16/5/16 Bank transfer foreign 
payment£14,316.39
25/5/16 Funds paid into the account  
from another of Mr Fs 
accounts with Lloyds£17,000
25/5/16 Bank transfer foreign 
payment£17,551.25
8/7/16 Funds paid into the account  
from another of Mr Fs 
account with Lloyds£50,000
8/7/16 Bank transfer foreign 
payment£15,826.54
Total of all payments  from 
Lloyds account£87,568.88
Ref: DRN40181592In 2015, Mr F was working in Ghana. During  his time there he met a third party  whom  he had a 
relationship with. They  were  in a relationship from mid-November  to mid- December  2015,  prior to him 
returning to the UK in December  2015.
On his return  to the UK, correspondence was maintained  between Mr F and the third party. Mr F has 
explained he was surprised when he received a message on 16 December  2015,  from the third party, 
informing him of a pregnancy.
Mr F says he started to receive abusive and threatening messages from the third party.  And has 
provided a message he received on 30 December 2015,  in which the third party  threatened  to sue 
him in court and says Mr F will not lose his kids alone but his life as well.
Mr F told us it was around this time the third party  demanded money  to go abroad to undergo a 
termination of the pregnancy.
In correspondence Mr F sent to a government agency in Ghana, he commented that he suspected 
the third party wasnt pregnant and that it was a scam to obtain money. Mr F says when he asked for 
proof of the pregnancy the third party  wrote  to the director  of the Educational  Institution  in Ghana and 
that the director replied back to the third party (copying him in) stating  that it needed  to be resolved 
outside of the organisation.
Mr F has explained that in early January 2016  the daily abuse, threats  and obscenities intensified. In 
his correspondence  with the government agency in Ghana he said that as hed returned to the UK 
and was trying to lead a normal life, reconcile with his wife and keep his family  together, he was 
prepared to meet the third partys demands in order to silence it. It was at the end of January  2016 
Mr F sent three payments  via money transfer service providers to the third party (these were  prior to 
payments sent from his Lloyds account).
Mr F was then informed by the third party that she was still pregnant. Mr F explains he received more  
abusive messages from the third party and also from another party (Ill refer to as X) believed to be 
her lawyer, who was claiming Mr F had tried to poison  her.
Mr F was told X had filed a petition against  him with the government agency in Ghana - whom X 
claimed had sent representatives  to Mr Fs employer. Mr F says he never received anything relating 
to this. Mr F feels the third party claimed  to involve the agency and his employer to deliberately put 
pressure on him to pay more money, which succeeded.
Following this, Mr F received an email from another party (Ill refer to as D), whom  he recalled  from his 
work in Ghana and employer. Mr F said he liked and trusted D as he worked for the employer  and, 
because he had the confidence of the director. D claimed to be delegated to help Mr F solve this 
issue.
Shortly after the initial contact from D, he contacted Mr F to suggest  the third party  attend a clinic  at a 
cost of $30,000  USD. Mr F says he thought the amount charged was very high but that he borrowed  
this money which he sent directly to the third partys account in the hope this would  be the end of the 
matter. A payment of £21,877.05 was made from Mr Fs Lloyds account  on 7 April 2016.
However, the third party  then claimed  the costs had risen to $50,000 USD.  Mr F again said he was 
suspicious that this was indeed blackmail/extortion  on a large scale by the third party and D, given  
that neither would provide  him with documentary proof about the costs or contact details  for the clinic.  
Mr F explained due to the stress  caused by the constant  abuse and threats  he transferred a further 
£14,431.06 ($20,000 USD) on 18 April 2016.  
D then got in touch with Mr F to say the third party  hadnt turned up. Around this time,  Mr F said he 
received messages from the third-party demanding  compensation of $50,000 USD, otherwise shed 
not have the procedure. Mr F said he protested and explained he couldnt send any more  money. 
Ref: DRN40181593Around the end of April 2016, he wrote the director of the Educational  Institution  in Ghana to explain  
what was happening but received no reply. Mr F suspects  the email he was given as a direct contact 
was false.  From what Ive currently  seen, it is not fully clear whether the contact details  Mr F had for 
the director  was gained when he was copied into the directors reply  to the third party around January 
2016 or whether  this was obtained through any of the other parties  involved.  
In his letter  to the government agency Mr F explained that due to the stress caused at the time,  he 
contemplated suicide on more than one occasion.  Mr Fs told us he managed  to borrow  the money 
which was transferred to the third partys account in three instalments  £3,566.59 on 5 May 2016, 
£14,316.39 on 16 May 2016  and £17,551.25  on 25 May 2016. Mr F added that due to the stress  and 
an unbalanced state of mind at the time he considered being in debt better  than a lifetime of 
blackmail.
The third party attended the alleged procedure at the end of May 2016.  It was a day after this that D 
contacted Mr F to advise him of complications.  Mr F was also contacted by a friend  of the third party 
who demanded $30,000  USD so that the third party could  be taken abroad for an operation. While 
Mr F, as mentioned above, has from the outset suspected that he was being  blackmailed, he said that 
it was at this time he was absolutely  certain  this was a blackmailing operation.
Mr F has said he was contacted by D, the third partys friend and, that X had also got back  in touch - 
with the messages remaining threatening and abusive. D contacted Mr F further at the beginning  of 
July 2016 to say hed negotiated a deal in which  Mr F would pay $20,000 USD and the clinic  would 
pay $10,000  USD for the third party to have an operation.  Mr F initially refused to pay any further 
money, however, after further abusive and threatening messages he transferred a further £15,826.54  
to the third party on 8 July 2016.
In total, Mr F lost £87,568.88 in payments  he made to the third party  from his Lloyds account.
Mr F raised  the matter  with Lloyds on 11 January  2018, which was over a year after the payments 
had been made. On becoming aware  of the scam  Lloyds  contacted  the receiving bank  in order to try 
to recover the funds.  Unfortunately, no funds  were  recovered.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response it said no error had been made by the bank.  It 
said the transactions did not flag, as its system did not deem them suspicious. Lloyds added 
transactions are not manually checked  they are referred through its fraud detection methods  the 
parameters of which change all the time. Lloyds say that as Mr F had willingly transferred the money  it 
is unable to refund the money lost as a result of a scam.
Mr F has explained that as a result of the blackmail  he has been left in debt, with a damaged  
reputation and an inability to focus and concentrate  due to the high levels of stress and chronic 
insomnia. 
As Mr F remained unhappy, he brought his complaint  to our service. One of our investigators looked 
into things and sent his initial thoughts to Lloyds  recommending the complaint be upheld.  He thought  
the large payments were unusual and out of character for Mr Fs account when taking into account 
the sudden increase in spending and that the payments were international transfers to a new payee. 
He considered Lloyds ought reasonably to have intervened. And had it done so, he thought  Mr F 
would have explained what was happening  and this would have prevented him from sending further 
funds. He proposed  that Lloyds either refund  the full amount Mr F had lost or at least from the second 
payment (a partial  refund of £65,691.83).
Lloyds disagreed with our investigators view of the complaint and so the complaint  has been
passed to me to reach a decision. Lloyds  in its response said:
Mr F had a relationship  with the third party and continued contact on his return  to the UK.
Its referred to Mr Fs comments  within  his communication with the agency in Ghana  where he 
says he was working on his marriage  and was prepared to meet the third partys demands.
Ref: DRN40181594It doesnt  agree that intervention from it when Mr F was making the payment would  have 
made a difference  in this particular  case. Its said had Mr F been asked questions  about  the 
payments it is likely he would have explained he was sending funds  to a friend in Ghana. And 
that when considering Mr F had worked in Ghana, this would have been a plausible 
explanation.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was minded to uphold  the complaint in part. I
included significant  detail about how the scam  seemed  to have unfolded  as well as what  the
parties had said. I wont repeat all of that here but I concluded, in summary, that:
There was no dispute Mr F had authorised all the international transfers he made  
from his Lloyds classic account.  And the starting position at law is that a bank is 
expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to 
make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.  But I also took into account the law, regulators 
rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider  to have been 
good industry practice at the time in order to decide  whether  Lloyds  acted fairly  and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mr F when he made the international transfers, or 
whether it should have done  more.
Having considered Mr Fs previous account  usage, I considered  the first payment to 
be unusual and out of character for how his account was previously  run. It followed 
that I was persuaded Lloyds ought to have got in touch with Mr F when he made  the 
first international transfer of £21,877.05.
Lloyds in its response to our investigator  said due to the time thats passed there is 
limited information available and, that without this information it is unable  to 
determine if any of the transactions were  referred for more checks on its systems. On 
balance, I was persuaded it was more likely than not Lloyds didnt make any 
enquiries about the payments before processing  them based on the lack of evidence  
and because Mr F was consistent  in saying he received no contact from the bank at 
any point during the scam. 
I explained that had Lloyds got in touch, as I think it ought to have done when the first 
payment was made, I needed to decide  whether this would have made  a difference. 
Taking into account Mr Fs recounting of what happened, I was persuaded that given 
he wished to protect his reputation, the reputation of his employer and, also due to 
thinking about his family, it was more likely than not hed have  provided  a plausible 
explanation as to why he was sending the funds  for the first few payments. I also 
explained that I had to take into account  that Mr F had worked in Ghana  and had a 
relationship with the third party. So when thinking  about  the likely answers Mr F 
would have given  had Lloyds questioned him about the first few payments, I was 
persuaded on balance, these would  not have given Lloyds caused for concern that 
he might  have been at risk of financial harm. 
While  I didnt think intervention from Lloyds at the start would have made a 
difference, I did think given the spending on the account, the number of payments 
made  all to the same  party  and all for reasonably large amounts - ought to have 
prompted Lloyds  to get in touch  with Mr F again  at a later stage to question the 
payments he was making. I added that given  the spending on the account,  I consider 
banks should  seek to prevent its bank accounts from being  used  to further  financial  
crime.
I was persuaded  that when Mr F made the fifth payment of £17,551.25  on 25 May 
2016 Lloyds ought  reasonably to have intervened again. Prior to making  this 
payment, Mr F credited his account with £17,000. And while Lloyds  has said that his 
account had a healthy balance  and the credit  came from another of Mr Fs accounts, 
Ref: DRN40181595I think Lloyds at this stage ought  to have recognised Mr F might be at risk of financial 
harm or was laundering money  and got in touch to question the payments  after all 
this was the fifth large payment Mr F had made to Ghana in a short space  of time.
In consideration  of the above,  I was mindful of Mr Fs testimony,  where he explained 
that prior to making the payments to the third party in May, due to the stress caused  
at the time, he contemplated suicide  on more than one occasion  and was in an 
unbalanced state of mind. Had Lloyds got in touch at this point, I thought  Mr F would 
have found it difficult to maintain and provide a plausible explanation/response as to 
why he was making continued international payments for such  large  amounts. On 
balance, given Mr Fs state of mind  at the time, had Lloyds got in touch and asked 
Mr F further  questions,  I was persuaded the situation would have stated to unravel 
and unfold. I think  further questioning would have  likely  led to Mr F telling Lloyds 
what was happening  and that he was being blackmailed. As given what Mr F has told 
us, it suggests in May he was reaching  a crisis point.
I thought Lloyds ought to have recognised Mr F was the victim of financial crime and 
that it should have taken steps  in preventing him from making  the payments and 
advised him to contact  the Police. I thought  intervention wouldve enabled Mr F to 
recognise the seriousness of the situation  he was in and give him some  time to 
reflect on his best next steps.  In that context, I was persuaded once Mr F had told 
someone (in this case Lloyds) what was happening, its more  likely than not that he 
would have felt empowered to notify  the necessary  authorities and stopped  making 
the payments.
Whilst I felt Lloyds  was at fault for not protecting Mr F and for allowing the furthering  
of a financial crime, I didnt think it should  refund the entire sum Mr F had lost. I 
thought Mr F was at fault to some  extent too. I said that because I didnt think  Mr F 
would have been open and honest  had Lloyds questioned him about the first few 
payments he made. I said this because,  Mr F has been  clear that he was suspicious 
he was being  blackmailed and that he indeed had suspicions from the outset.  I had 
concerns about how readily Mr F willingly handed over a considerable amount of 
money to the third party based on the plausibility  of what  he was being told and the 
events taking place.  This was particularly when taking into account  the relatively 
limited evidence Mr F received to support the claims of the third party.  Mr F in 
recounting what happened  said he asked the parties contacting  him for evidence in 
support of what was being claimed  but that he never received any information. And 
despite this he continued to make  the payments to the third party.  I also couldnt fairly 
ignore that Mr F clearly expressed that he was prepared to meet the demands  of the 
third party  in order to silence the matter  for a number  of reasons, which included (but 
not limited to) him being in fear of his life, wanting to protect his family  and his 
reputation. I thought,  in all the circumstances, it was fair to instruct Lloyds to refund 
Mr F from 25 May 2016  - the payments of £17,551.25 and £15,826.54 (total of 
£33,377.79) but that this amount should  be reduced by 50% to take into account 
Mr Fs own actions.
The investigator recommended  Lloyds should  pay £100 compensation in recognition  
of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr F. Lloyds  hadnt commented 
specifically in response to this recommendation. I was mindful  that Mr Fs loss was 
ultimately caused by the act of the third party and, although  Lloyds ought to have  
intervened for the reasons Ive summarised,  given what  I said about Mr Fs actions, I 
was not inclined to say any compensation ought  to be awarded. 
In response to my provisional decision Lloyds and Mr F replied to say they both disagreed 
with my findings. I will now summarise each partys response: 
Ref: DRN40181596Mr F replied to say he started to make the large  transfers from his account  for the following 
reasons: 
The third party demanded he made bank transfers as she said the money transfer 
service provider would question such large transfers. 
He was worried by an ex-colleague (referred to as D), whom  he recalled from his 
work in Ghana  and his employer, who told him the security agency  and government  
agency in Ghana  had talked to his employer and the director.  
Mr F explained  he was persuaded by D, whom was someone he knew  and respected 
from his employer. When D told him hed been  delegated by the director to contact 
him and advised  him to pay for a termination of the pregnancy,  he believed  him as he 
had no reason not to. 
At the time of the first transfer  Mr F says he thought he could see a way through  the 
abuse and threats of the third party by following the advice of the director and D. 
Mr F adds he had no idea the contacts  were not what they appeared to be. Mr F has 
commented in his reply  that because D had been so convincing and seemed to know 
so much about him, he believes  there  is collaboration  with the scammers.
He believes Lloyds  ought to have blocked the transfers from the initial payment 
(given the amount, that it was a payment to a new payee and that it was being made 
to an account  in Ghana). Mr F says that had Lloyds contacted him and questioned 
him about the first payment he made  he feels certain he would  have admitted he was 
being blackmailed/scammed.  Mr F said the amounts were simply too large to be 
plausibly explained as gifts or help to a friend. And that the transfers were very 
uncharacteristic of his usual behaviour over the many years hes held accounts with 
the bank.
Mr F reiterated that had Lloyds got in touch  when he had made the first transfer,  he is certain 
he would  have admitted to being blackmailed/scammed. He maintains Lloyds should  
reimburse him for the total loss he has incurred as a result,  along with interest and 
compensation. 
Lloyds in its response made the following points:
It said the transfers Mr F made into the account  were from another of his Lloyds 
accounts, therefore it would have had no reason  to question  these  deposits.  It 
reiterated that had Mr F been  questioned about the payments,  it is likely he would 
have explained  he was sending funds to a friend  in Ghana. And given Mr F had 
worked in Ghana this would have been a plausible explanation. 
Lloyds say there was nothing  in the activity  that alerted for further security checks. 
It doesnt believe Mr F has been  the victim of a scam as by his own testimony  he 
acknowledged himself  as having  been  blackmailed/extorted. It follows  that it doesnt 
consider Mr F to have  been under the spell of a scam at any point. 
Lloyds also considers a recent court ruling to be relevant here,  where it was agreed 
that there should be no extension  of the Quincecare  duty where the transfer  is 
properly and lawfully authorised by the customer. It says this decision  provides banks 
with a clear position and that where  a payment was authorised by the customer, 
there is limited scope to argue  that their bank has a duty of care to prevent the 
consequences of that payment.
Ref: DRN40181597my findings
Having carefully considered the further  comments made by both parties, along with having 
reconsidered all the previous evidence  and arguments provided,  my decision remains  
unchanged. Ive reached the same  conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision and 
summarised above. 
I know this will be disappointing for both Mr F and Lloyds so I will explain why. 
Id like to assure Mr F that Ive carefully considered everything he has told us in relation to 
the circumstances of this complaint and I do recognise and understand his strength of 
feeling about what has happened. But Im afraid my position remains  the same  for the 
reasons I explained  in detail in my provisional  decision   which is summarised  and in part 
copied above. Had Lloyds got in touch with Mr F when  he made the first payments, as I think 
it ought to have done here, when taking  Mr Fs testimony into account, I dont think that 
intervention from Lloyds would have initially have  made a difference here. 
Mr F in his recounting of what  happened has been  clear that when the third party  started to 
ask for money, he was prepared to meet the third partys demands in order  to silence the 
situation. As set out above, this was on the basis that Mr F wished to protect  his reputation,  
the reputation  of his employer and, also due to thinking about his family. Im persuaded  that 
had Lloyds got in touch  with Mr F regarding any of the first few payments he was likely to 
have provided  a plausible explanation as to why he was sending  the funds. 
When thinking about the likely answers  he would have given had Lloyds questioned him 
about the first few payments,  on balance, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably say these 
would have given  Lloyds cause for concern that he might have been at risk of financial harm. 
I say this because,  Mr F had a connection to the third party and to the country  at this point. 
So when the situation initially started, I think its more likely than not Mr F would have been 
able to explain what he was making  the payments for in a feasible and, on the face of it, 
credible way. 
However, while I dont  think intervention from Lloyds at the start would have made a
difference, I remain of the view that the spending  on the account, the number of payments 
made  all to the same  party  and all for reasonably large amounts - ought to have prompted 
Lloyds to get in touch  with Mr F again  at a later stage to question the payments he was 
making. I also say this because, given the spending on the account,  I consider  a bank 
should seek to prevent  its bank accounts  from being  used to further financial crime. When  
looking at the pattern  of spending  in this particular case  it could  have been  indicative of 
money laundering so we would have  reasonably  expected  the bank to have investigated 
further to avail itself of its obligations to monitor accounts. Banks are under obligations to 
carry out account monitoring under various requirements  including anti-money laundering, 
countering the financing  of terrorism and preventing financial crime, so Id expect the bank to 
be monitoring accounts and payments.   
Lloyds in its response to my provisional decision said it considers  too high a standard  has 
been applied  to what is expected of it in terms of identifying payments that might  indicate a 
consumer is at risk of financial harm; and it has referred to the Quincecare duty  in support 
of its argument. I am mindful that the courts have interpreted Quincecare narrowly and the 
circumstances of this complaint are different to that case. Our fair and reasonable remit 
also enables  us to take account  of regulatory  and industry standards beyond  the narrow  
legal duties considered in that and other court cases. 
Ref: DRN40181598In any event, I am not suggesting Quincecare  applies to this case, however the broad legal 
position that a bank  is expected to process payments that a customer  authorises is not 
absolute  and Quincecare (along with regulators rules and guidance,  relevant codes of 
practice and good  industry practice  at the time) is an example of that.
I acknowledge there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. The systems and 
procedures Lloyds put in place to manage those competing demands are a matter for the 
bank. But it is neither unfair nor unreasonable to expect a bank to double-check payment 
instructions that ought reasonably to trigger concerns as to whether they are unusual or 
uncharacteristic for this particular customer and/or account activity.
In the circumstances of this particular case,  I remain persuaded that when  Mr F made the 
fifth payment  of £17,551.25  on 25 May 2016 Lloyds  ought reasonably to have intervened.  
Prior to making this payment,  Mr F credited his account with £17,000. And while  Lloyds has 
reiterated that his account  had a healthy balance and the credit  came from another of Mr Fs 
accounts - so had no reason to question  the deposit,  I still think  Lloyds ought to have 
recognised Mr F might be at risk of financial harm or was laundering money and got in touch 
to question the payments  after all this was the fifth large payment Mr F had made  to 
Ghana in a short space of time.
And when  considering what  Mr F has told us about his state of mind  at the time of making 
the payment to the third party in May,  had Lloyds got in touch with Mr F at this point, I think  
he would  have found it difficult to continue to maintain and provide a plausible explanation/ 
response as to why he was making continued  international  payments for such large amounts 
for all the reasons Ive previously explained and summarised above. 
For clarity,  had Lloyds asked Mr F further questions, on balance,  Im persuaded the situation 
would have started to unravel and unfold. I also think some further questioning from Lloyds - 
for example, what where the payments  for, what was the reason for the continued payments 
to the payee  would have likely resulted  in Mr F being unable to answer  these further 
questions plausibly. Mr F has described  being in an increasingly stressful  situation, things 
were evolving, and things had continued to escalate.  The level of contact and the nature of 
the contact he received  from the different parties  from what  hes told us, meant  the only way 
out he could see from the situation  was to consider ending his own life. I think  its clear Mr F 
was under a lot of pressure and was unable to cope with the increasing  severity of the 
situation which seemed to be never  ending no matter what he did. I think it is more likely 
than not Mr F would have  failed to give credible and compelling answers  to even basic 
questions about  the surrounding circumstances at this point, had Lloyds  have asked. 
It remains that I think Lloyds at this stage  ought  to have recognised  Mr F was the victim of
financial crime and that it shouldve taken steps  in preventing him from making the payments
and advised him to contact the Police. I think this intervention  wouldve  enabled  Mr F to 
accept the seriousness  of the situation he was in and give him some time to reflect on his
best next steps. In that context Im persuaded once Mr F had told someone (in this case
Lloyds) what was happening, its more likely than not that he wouldve felt empowered to
notify the necessary authorities and stopped  making the payments.
Overall, while  Im persuaded  that intervention from the start wouldnt have made a
difference, I do consider that Lloyds  ought to have  intervened from 25 May 2016  and, that 
intervention would have, on balance, changed the course of events and prevented  Mr F from 
sending more money.  
Ref: DRN40181599should Mr F bear some responsibility by way of contributory negligence?
Im grateful  to Mr F for reiterating his circumstances which are linked to the scam, including 
how this has affected him personally, emotionally  and financially. But I also think all of that 
was clear before I made my provisional  decision, so whats been said more  recently hasnt  
changed my opinion. I still think Mr F should take some responsibility  for the loss in this 
particular case.  I say this because  there was limited  evidence  to support the claims being 
made to Mr F by the various  parties, he had suspicions  about  the situation  and whether he 
was being blackmailed but proactively decided not to involve the Police and continued to 
send funds. 
So for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and summarised above, I think  its fair 
to instruct Lloyds to refund  Mr F from 25 May 2016   the payments of £17,551.25 and 
£15,826.54 (total of £33,377.79) but that this amount should be reduced  by 50% to take into 
account Mr Fs own actions. 
additional compensation
My opinion remains unchanged in relation to the investigators recommendation that Lloyds  
should pay £100 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience  caused to 
Mr F. So I find no award for compensation ought to be awarded. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and instruct Lloyds Bank PLC to:
refund  £16,688.89
if the account in question  is interest  bearing,  Lloyds  should pay the account interest 
rate from the date of loss to the date of settlement
 If Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to deduct income tax from
that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give Mr F a tax
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2021.
Staci Rowland
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4018159