K822xcomplaint
Miss S complaint relates to a mortgage endowment policy she was sold in 1992. The policy  
was sold by a third party business and The Prudential  Assurance Company Limited is the 
product provider. 
Miss S is unhappy with the service  she has received  from Prudential  in relation to the policy 
administration and her questions and enquiries regarding  the policy.  In particular, the 
information she has been given has often proven to be wrong and contradictory.  Miss S has 
also suffered broken  promises of return telephone calls and when the policy  matured, the 
payment was delayed.
background 
Prudential upheld Miss S complaint in part. It accepted  that the level of service it provided to 
her had been below that which she should  have received.  As such,  it offered her £150 to 
compensate her. It also offered  to pay interest  on the late maturity payment. Miss S wasnt 
satisfied and referred her complaint to this service.
Both myself and an ombudsman colleague  have issued provisional  decisions on this case. 
The content of my provisional decision  of 21 December 2018, containing an extract  of my 
colleagues findings, is attached to this decision and forms  part of it.
In summary,  we concluded  that the level of service Miss S had received was significantly 
below that which she was entitled  to expect and receive. As such, we decided  that the 
amount of compensation should  be increased  to £400.
In relation to the matter of whether Miss S was sent a letter  by Prudential which included a 
deadline date for making a complaint about  the sale of the policy, I was satisfied  that the 
letter of November 2006 was sent and did include a deadline date. I was also satisfied  that 
the evidence indicated that the letter was not returned to Prudential.
The letter was sent to the same address as all of the other letters that Miss S acknowledged  
receiving and there was no evidence of it being  returned. I concluded  that it was most likely 
that it was also received,  albeit that Miss S may not have realised its import at the time and 
kept it. From this I concluded  that Prudential had provided correct information  about the 
deadline date to the selling business and that it wasnt responsible for Miss S mis-selling  
complaint being  time-barred  by that business  when it shouldnt have been. 
Prudential acknowledged  receipt of my provisional decision and confirmed that it had no 
further comments or information  to provide.
Miss S said that the £400 compensation for the administrative issues  was acceptable. 
However, in relation to my conclusions about the correspondence sent and received, Miss S 
considered that my conclusions were one-sided. She commented that I had accepted that 
Prudential didnt receive a letter from her when  it said it didnt, but assumed that she did 
receive a letter form it when she said she didnt. Miss S questioned why, if only one letter  
was to be sent with this important information in it, Prudential  didnt sent the letter so that it 
had to be signed for or do some  form of follow-up on it. She asked how it not doing such 
things is acceptable.  She also reiterated that she didnt receive the November 2006 letter.
Ref: DRN48021762my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Miss S comments about the correspondence that was exchanged between  
herself and Prudential. It is known that some letters are lost in the post. So what  I have to do 
is decide on balance,  whether it is more  likely  than not that a letter  was sent and received. I 
know that Miss S thinks that I am simply accepting what  Prudential has said, but I am not 
affording her the same courtesy. That is not the case, I am happy  to accept that Miss S 
remembers sending Prudential a letter  about  stopping using her financial adviser and that 
she doesnt remember receiving the November 2006 letter. However,  where Prudential are 
concerned there is additional information.  All of its correspondence, both sent and received, 
is recorded in its records as and when it happens. As such, we know  with a high degree of 
certainty what letters it received and what it sent. 
I can never be 100% certain that letters  were  posted  be either party  to a complaint or 
whether they were  or werent received. I have to decide, based on the evidence  I have  
available to me; whether it was more likely than not that they were posted  and/or received. 
I am happy to accept  that Miss S sent Prudential a letter  in 2005 about her IFA. If we were to 
have evidence of the address it was sent to and that address was correct, I would usually 
say that on balance the letter would  have been  received.  However, we dont  have a copy  of 
the letter to establish it was correctly  addressed  and we know  that it wasnt  logged  as 
received by Prudential at the time. This combination of evidence,  on balance,  makes me 
conclude that its more likely than not that the letter wasnt received. 
When it comes  to the letters that Prudential sent Miss S, we know  that they were sent and 
that they were  sent to the correct address. There is also nothing  to indicate that they were 
returned as undelivered. In addition, Miss S has said that she received all of the annual 
letters, apart from the relevant one with the deadline included in it. This combination  of 
evidence indicates,  on balance, that it is more  likely  than not that it was received.  
Miss S has asked why, if the letter was so important,  why it was not sent by a method that 
required proof of receipt or why it was not followed up. The simple answer to that is that the 
regulator didnt  require that to be done. I would agree, from a consumers point of view,  such  
actions would have  been helpful. However, as it wasnt a requirement the regulator placed  
on product providers at the time,  I cant  find that Prudential did anything  wrong in not doing 
so.
I know that this is not what Miss S wants to hear,  but I havent been  persuaded to change 
my conclusions. I remain satisfied that it is more  likely than not that she received the 
deadline date letter in late 2006.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of the 
complaint, I order The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to pay Miss S £400  for the 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN48021763provisional decision
complaint about: The Prudential Assurance Company  Limited
date of decision: 21 December 2018
complaint
Miss S complaint relates to a mortgage endowment policy she was sold in 1992. The policy  
was sold by a third party business and The Prudential  Assurance Company Limited is the 
product provider. 
Miss S is unhappy with the service  she has received  from Prudential  in relation to the 
administration and her questions and enquiries regarding  the policy.  In particular, the 
information she has been given has often proven to be wrong and contradictory.  Miss S has 
also suffered broken  promises of return telephone calls and when the policy  matured, the 
payment was delayed.
background
Prudential upheld Miss S complaint in part. It accepted  that the level of service it provided to 
her had been below that which she should  have received.  As such,  it offered her £150 to 
compensate her. It also offered  to pay interest  on the late maturity payment. Miss S wasnt 
satisfied and referred her complaint to this service. 
One of my colleagues  considered the service issues Miss S had suffered in his provisional 
decision of 4 October 2018.  An extract of that decision is below explaining his conclusions.
That is I think that an award  for the trouble  and upset  caused is merited.  However I think  the 
extent and repeated  nature of the errors and delays experienced by Miss S merits an award  
of £400 (less  any amount  already paid for trouble and upset  but not any amount for late 
payment).
I have read the whole  file. I dont think I need  to repeat what  happened here. There were a 
number of serious, confusing and troubling  errors on the part of the business. Miss S is, like 
others, entitled to reasonably prompt and accurate responses to reasonable questions and 
a reasonable level of service. Of course errors will arise from time to time. That is 
unavoidable when a large organisation is involved in great  volumes of transactions every 
day.
However what I have described  above isnt what happened here. A series  of errors and 
delays affecting  almost every contact  between Miss S and the business seem  to have 
happened. Why that should be I do not know. It does however happen from time to time. 
In particular, there are two features which specifically cause me to say a higher award is 
justified.
One is that, as I have  said, the errors seem to have happened in more  than one area - 
time barring,  correspondence  and communications  generally and maturity. The other is 
that it took too long,  in my view,  for the matters  to come to a head and the business  to 
recognise what was happening.
Ref: DRN48021764However for a number  of reasons awards  made for trouble  and upset caused  tend to be 
modest. More information on the subject is available on our website. The award is intended 
to be a marker for the trouble caused rather than a cash  payment  for, say, time spent. For 
the occasional  and one off errors  and delays, in addition to interest for late payment, an 
award of the sort first suggested by the business might well be appropriate. However  I 
think the cumulative  nature of the issues (and therefore the cumulative loss of confidence 
in what the business says) mean  £400 is the appropriate level to award.
In relation to the issue Miss S raised about being  informed, or not, of a deadline to 
complain about  the advice  she received to arrange the endowment  policy,  my colleague  
considered that there was at that time insufficient information to reach  a conclusion. He 
asked for further  information and comment.  
Both parties  have now provided their comments in relation to my colleagues  provisional  
decision. I have  also requested some  further  clarification from Prudential.
For clarity,  Prudential is unable to provide the actual letters that were  sent to Miss S over the 
years. It has, however,  provided details of the dates and key contents of the re-projection 
letters, templates for them and confirmation  of what addresses it held for Miss S and when.
This information shows that Miss S was sent letters telling her that there was a high risk of 
her policy not paying out the amount it was targeted  for from February 2003. This warning  
was repeated in February or March 2004, 2005 and 2006. 
Prudential has said that when the regulator introduced new rules  in 2004 that would allow  life 
companies to introduce deadline dates for a policyholder to make a complaint about their 
endowment policy,  it decided not to do so. However, in August 2006 it changed that decision 
and began an exercise to issue deadline dates to all policies where  deadlines could be set. 
Miss S policy was included in this exercise and so a second  high risk warning letter was 
sent to her in November  2006. This was effectively the 2007 annual  re-projection letter sent 
early and it told Miss S that she had a deadline to complain of 22 June 2007.
The November 2006 letter was the only one that the deadline date was included  in. This was 
because the Prudential then went back to its usual  schedule for issuing re-projection letters 
from 2008. As the deadline had already expired by that point, it wasnt documented  again.  
Miss S has provided copies of the letters  she was sent by Prudential  for February 2006 and 
later dates. She has said that she didnt receive the November 2006  letter.  She has also 
questioned why she was sent two letters in 2006  and is suspicious that this was not the case  
and effectively, Prudential  have made  up this information, as it was not in line with the 
sequence of the other  letters she received.
Miss S also pointed out that the deadline date on the template Prudential  provided for the 
November 2006  letter was different to that which  she had been told earlier  by Prudential. 
She said that this was the fourth or fifth time that the date had changed and in her mind  
proves that one was never sent. 
In relation to the matter of renewal  commission being paid to the financial adviser that sold 
her the endowment policy, Miss S repeated  that she had told Prudential  in 2005 that no 
longer looked  after the policy. She also confirmed that her current  IFA was not involved with 
her endowment policy and she has no idea why it made enquiries about it.
Ref: DRN48021765my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am in agreement with my colleagues findings and reasoning in relation to the matter  of the 
service Miss S received from Prudential. There were  multiple  failings and oft times repetition 
of those failings.  As such, I also consider that the compensation in this regard should be 
increased to £400.
In relation to the payment of the renewal commission for the policy, it would  be normal  for 
that to continue to be paid to the selling agent  throughout the term of the policy. The 
exception would be where the policyholder told the product provider that the adviser  was no 
longer servicing  (involved with)  the policy. I note that Miss S has said that she wrote to 
Prudential in 2005 to tell it that was the case for her policy, however, Prudential  has no 
record of that happening.  Without  such notification,  I cant  see that Prudential did anything  
wrong in this respect.
I now turn to the outstanding matter  of Miss S being  provided (or not) with a deadline date to 
complain about  the sale of her policy by. Miss S has said that she didnt receive the 
November 2006  letter from Prudential and that she doubts it was ever sent  she thinks  
Prudential is lying about this.
I would firstly confirm that it is not unusual that a product provider cant provide copies of the 
actual letters that were sent to its policyholders. Given the volume of such letters most 
providers had to send, many made the decision to simply keep template letters and the 
policy-specific information  that was put into those templates.  It would not be appropriate  to 
penalise Prudential for that decision, as it was one that it could reasonably make.  I would 
also confirm that I have seen not just what Prudential has to say about these letters,  but it 
has also provided us with screen  prints of its computerised records.  I see no reason to doubt 
those records.
Miss S has said that she doesnt think that the deadline date letter of November 2006 was 
actually sent.  This is because she has no record of it in her papers and also because it was 
not sent when she would  have expected  her next update letter.
In relation to the issue of date of the letter, I can understand that it could look unusual for 
one letter to be sent three months  early. However,  Prudential has explained why this was. It 
decided in the summer of 2006  to provide  deadline  dates, which wasnt something it had 
done before. As such, any policies  that could have  a deadline  date set, were worked through 
from that date and deadline  letters sent.  In Miss S case, this mean that her annual 
re-projection letter was sent slightly earlier than expected.  Given  the circumstances, I see no 
reason that it being sent slightly  early  should raise concerns  about  the authenticity of the 
records. 
Miss S has been given  different  dates relating to the time limits for making a complaint at 
various times. I dont  think any of them were wrong,  but there may have been  a lack of 
explanation surrounding them. The time limit rules that apply to her making  a mis-selling  
complaint to her financial advisers require two things. The first is that she was sent a letter  
telling her that there was a high-risk of a shortfall  on the policy. The first such  letter was sent 
to Miss S in 2003. She then had to receive  a deadline date, which  had to be at least three  
years from the date of the first high-risk warning  letter and six months  in the future. 
Ref: DRN48021766This would have meant that Miss S could have  been  time-barred from February 2006, if 
Prudential had sent her a deadline date by August 2005. However, at that time Prudential  
wasnt intending to invoke time limits  on complaints, so it didnt  send a deadline  date. When 
it changed its mind about time-barring  complaints it sent a letter as soon as was practically 
possible. This was November 2006 and a deadline of June 2007  was set  more than three 
years from the first high-risk  letter and just over the required six months in the future.
Overall, having examined the evidence I am satisfied that Prudential did send Miss S a 
deadline letter in November 2006. Given that Prudential  went back  to its usual schedule for 
issuing re-projection  letters  after that, the next one was not sent until after the deadline that 
had been set had expired. As such,  the deadline wasnt  mentioned again in subsequent 
letters.
I have noted Miss S comment  about the date in the template letter  that Prudential sent to 
this service. That letter was not a copy of a letter sent to her and was sent to us for 
information purposes so we could see what the letter  would have looked  like and where  the 
deadline date would  have been  documented. This was not a date that related to Miss S 
policy.
That said,  the special  rules for mortgage  endowments require that the consumer receives 
the warnings and information, not just that it is sent.  Miss S has said that the November 
2006 letter  wasnt  received. I have looked  at Prudentials records and, as I have said above, 
I am satisfied that it was sent to Miss S. I am also satisfied that the address Prudential  had 
on file for Miss S was the correct one. 
Now I know that not all items of post sent are received, but the vast majority are. Miss S 
hasnt mentioned that she had any postal issues around that time and she does seem to 
have received all the other letters Prudential sent her. In addition,  Prudential has no record 
of the letter  having been returned. Whilst Miss S may not have realised the importance of the 
letter, I am satisfied that it was most  likely received by her. 
Overall, I am satisfied that a deadline  date was communicated to Miss S in 2006 and that the 
letter it was contained  in was most likely  received by her. As such, I dont consider 
Prudential provided  incorrect information  about  this to the selling adviser or that its 
responsible for her complaint to that adviser being  time-barred when it shouldnt have been.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I consider that for the 
service issues  The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should pay Miss S £400 
compensation. 
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4802176