K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 2003. Mrs S says Bank  of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Halifax had to make  it clear to Mrs S that she had a choice  about  it. 
But Mrs S says she wasnt told the PPI was optional and was led to believe there was more  
chance of her application being successful if she took the PPI.
Halifax hasnt been able to send us a copy of Mrs Ss mortgage  application  form. But it has 
sent us examples of the documents  it says wouldve been given to customers in sales  
around the time that Mrs Ss PPI was sold. And these  make  it clear that the PPI was 
optional.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  that Halifax did make it clear  to Mrs S that 
she had a choice  about the PPI. And that Mrs S chose to take it.
Mrs S has also said she was pressured  into taking the PPI by the Halifax  advisor.  Shes told 
us scare tactics were used. But she hasnt  given us much more detail about what was said 
or why she felt pressured. This is understandable given how long ago the sale was. But I 
dont think theres enough  evidence here for me to say that Halifax  unfairly pressured her 
into taking the PPI.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mrs S, so it had to check  that it was right for her. 
And, based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ss circumstances at the time,  I think  that it was. For 
example, she doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. And the policy couldve paid out for longer than shes told us she wouldve 
been entitled to full sick pay.
As well as checking it was right for her, Halifax had to give Mrs S clear  information about the 
PPI. Its possible the information  it gave her wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  been. But a 
mortgage is a serious  financial  commitment, and Mrs Ss property couldve been at risk if 
shed failed to make her repayments. So I think she couldve found the protection  the policy  
offered appealing. And, for the same  reasons I think it was right for her, it seems like the PPI 
would have been useful for Mrs S if something went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mrs S off taking  it 
out.
Ref: DRN40885252my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 May 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4088525