K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the cover Ageas Insurance Limited provided him with under his motor 
insurance policy. 
background
On 18 September  2018, Mr S was involved in an incident with a third party, which  he 
reported the same day. In summary,  he said: 
The third party in front pulled onto the roundabout as it was clear to do so, but then 
slammed on their brakes, causing  Mr S to go into the back of the third partys  car. 
The third party got out of their car and accused Mr S of being on his phone. The third 
party suggested they meet in a nearby layby to exchange details.  
There wasnt a layby, so Mr Ss passenger signalled to the third party  as he exited 
the roundabout. He later pulled into a garage where he waited, but the third party  
didnt show up. 
Mr S thinks it was a scam  there  was no reason  to brake,  the third party made 
accusations about Mr S and they left the scene. 
The third party also contacted Ageas about the incident on the same day. They said:  
They were approaching a busy roundabout  and slowing down  Mr S wasnt paying 
attention. They  stopped to give way to traffic, and Mr S drove into them forcing them  
onto the roundabout. 
They confirmed they agreed to meet in a layby, but Mr S drove off  so he only had 
his registration  number. 
Ageas accepted responsibility for the matter  on Mr Ss behalf. It told Mr S: 
He hit the rear of the third partys  car, and there  shouldve been enough braking 
distance. 
There wasnt evidence to support that the third partys claim was fraudulent  the 
claim was relatively  minor, it was reported to the police and theyve been fully 
cooperative. 
It couldnt see traffic/police cameras on the roundabout. And unless Mr S can provide 
CCTV, it couldnt review the matter.  
It has the right to deal with and settle the claim on his behalf.  This is on a without 
prejudice basis so it doesnt affect any claim Mr S may personally wish to bring 
against the third party.  
To claim for damage on his vehicle, he can either claim on his policy  with Ageas, or 
contact his brokers about whether he has legal expenses cover. 
Mr S was unhappy with Ageas position  and its complaint response and so, he brought his 
complaint to us. He said Ageas wouldnt defend him unless  he got CCTV. He also 
mentioned that he hadnt received photographs of the third partys vehicle as he requested.  
Our investigator didnt  think Ageas acted unfairly.  He agreed there wasnt evidence  to 
suggest the third party  deliberately caused the incident. And that he can see it thought  about  
the value of CCTV  but it remained that there shouldve been enough braking distance to 
stop Mr S hitting the car. He also said that Mr S didnt have legal expenses insurance  with 
Ageas in these  circumstances.
Ref: DRN45545832Mr S remained unhappy  and felt his complaint has been misunderstood. He was concerned  
with the way Ageas dealt with his original complaint, and that it wouldnt send him photos of 
the third partys vehicle.  
The complaint has been passed  to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S told us he was unhappy  that Ageas wouldnt provide legal cover  to defend him. So Ive 
looked at the terms and conditions of the policy, as this sets out the agreement between  
Mr S and Ageas about what it will and wont cover.    
Under Section 1  Liability  to other  people , theres a section  called Legal expenses . But 
its not relevant  for what Mr S wants cover  for. Instead, this section helps with any coroners 
inquest, fatal accident inquiry, or matters in a magistrates court (and therefore  criminal 
matters), alongside specific offences  for manslaughter, death by dangerous driving, or 
causing death by alcohol or drugs.  
So I dont  think Ageas wrongly  denied legal cover, because its clear thats not something it 
agreed to cover. Instead, Ageas obligations  here are to indemnify Mr S against any legal 
responsibilities for anyones injuries or any property that was damaged  in the incident.  And 
Im satisfied its done that here by dealing  with the third partys claim.
I appreciate Ageas might not have dealt with the third partys claim in the way Mr S wouldve 
liked. In that Ageas accepted responsibility  at an earlier stage  meaning the third party  
didnt need to proceed to legal action. But as is a feature in all motor insurance policies, the 
general conditions  explain We may, in your name, take over and deal with a claim.
The term doesnt mean Ageas can do as it pleases  it should have sound reasons for its 
decision. Here, it explained  why the evidence doesnt suggest the third party  deliberately 
slammed on the brakes. And that it doesnt think CCTV  would help  its difficult to define a 
slam-on, and in any event, there shouldve been a safe braking distance.  Given  this, it 
doesnt think Mr S would succeed in court, and therefore has made the decision to accept 
responsibility.  
I think that was a reasonable conclusion for Ageas to make. It has considered Mr Ss point of 
view and the evidence  available, but believes thats outweighed by the circumstances of the 
incident  that he went into the back of the car suggesting there wasnt  enough braking 
distance. I know Mr S strongly  believes Ageas should defend  him, but as Ive said, his policy  
isnt there  to fight on his behalf   its to indemnify him.  And here, I think it made a sensible 
decision about how to do that, as its entitled to do. 
Mr S has said he thinks the cover was misrepresented. Im satisfied the information  Ageas 
gave in its terms and conditions is clear and specific about  what  legal expenses it covers.  
And in handling this matter, it told him to speak with his broker  about whether he had cover 
elsewhere. Indeed,  it seems Mr S was given legal protection  as a free benefit through his 
broker. But thats a separate  policy with a different insurer.  And in any event, the information 
Ive seen about this shows its to help where  the accident isnt your fault. So, even with this 
Ref: DRN45545833separate insurance, I cant see he was been told he had legal expenses cover that would 
help in this situation. 
Mr S has also pointed  out problems with how Ageas handled his claim  he said it wouldnt 
send him pictures  of the third partys car. It seems these were shared in Ageas final 
response letter, but Mr S has said the photos  were  faded and werent sent by email as 
requested. Its not clear  whether  he raised this as an issue  with Ageas but, either way, hes 
now had these by making a subject access request. And I dont think the impact on Mr S 
was such that Id ask Ageas to do anything  more. 
Mr S also said Ageas  mishandled his original complaint. In line with the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys handbook, it had eight weeks to reply to Mr Ss complaint  and it comfortably  
met this. I appreciate  Mr S was unhappy with the content of the response and who it came 
from, but he was appropriately  told what he could do next. And that was to approach our 
service, which  he later did. 
So, all in all, Im satisfied  Ageas  fairly  provided  the cover it agreed to, and I dont think it 
needs to do anything to put things right here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4554583