K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the level of service provided by Bulstrad Life Vienna Insurance Group 
JSC when  he made a claim  on his hire car excess insurance policy.  He wants  a refund of the 
charges made for damage to the hire car. 
background
Mr M said he returned his hire car undamaged  outside of business  hours.  But the hire 
company then contacted him to say that the rear bumper had been damaged. It retained his 
deposit but Mr M said this was unattended damage  that wasnt his fault. He wanted either 
the hire company or Bulstrad to refund his money.  Bulstrad  said the policy  covered Mr M for 
any damage he was responsible for. It said Mr M hadnt followed the hire companys 
disputes process. It said he needed to do this before it could accept his claim.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Bulstrad 
had reasonably thought  that Mr M declined  to follow the hire companys disputes process. 
So he thought it was entitled  to refuse  to accept the claim. So he thought  Mr M should first 
do this and if he wasnt successful then he could make a claim from Bulstrad. He thought 
Bulstrad shouldnt then decline the claim because Mr M didnt think it was his fault. This was 
because hed been held responsible for it. 
Mr M replied that he thought he had raised  a dispute with the car hire company. He asked 
for his complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman,  so its come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr M feels hard done  by. Hes adamant that the damage to his car wasnt his 
fault and frustrated that Bulstrad wont deal with his claim under his policy.  Our approach in 
cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted fairly and reasonably  and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr M thought Bulstrads agent should  deal with the dispute with the hire company on his 
behalf. But I cant see that this is provided by his policys  terms and conditions.  
Bulstrad has explained that Mr M should  firstly raise his dispute with the hire company. This 
is because of the policy term that excludes cover for amounts that could be recoverable from 
the hire company. I think thats fair and reasonable as the exclusion is set out clearly in the 
policy document Ive seen  and Bulstrad shouldnt have to pay out claims unnecessarily. 
Mr M said this hadnt been brought to his attention earlier. But I think  Bulstrad told Mr M that 
he should raise  the dispute with the hire company first when it asked him for information 
about his claim. Bulstrad  later explained that it needed evidence  that this route had been  
followed to meet its internal process requirements and to avoid fraudulent claims. An 
insurers internal  systems  and processes  isnt something that this service  would normally  
interfere with as its a legitimate exercise of its commercial  judgement.  So I cant  say that this 
was unfair.
Ref: DRN48859292Mr M said he hadnt told Bulstrad that he wouldnt dispute the damage  with the hire 
company. But, like the investigator, Ive listened  to the relevant telephone call and I think 
Bulstrad reasonably concluded  that Mr M was unwilling to do this. 
Mr M said hed already raised  a dispute  with the hire company. I can see that he emailed it 
to complain about the charges made to his account and that he hadnt caused  the damage. 
But the hire company has a particular dispute process that our investigator has already 
drawn to Mr Ms attention.  I cant see that Mr M has followed this process as yet. So I think  
its reasonable for Bulstrad to decline to accept  his claim until hes followed this process 
through.
If the outcome is that his dispute with the hire company isnt upheld then it follows  that Mr M 
will be held responsible  for the damage to the car. In that case, I think Bulstrad  should  then 
consider his claim under the policys  terms and conditions. 
So I cant say that Bulstrad has acted unfairly or unreasonably  and I think its acted 
according to the policy terms and conditions. I dont require it to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4885929