K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about Acromas Insurance Company Limiteds service in connection 
with his breakdown  repair  policy.
Mr S took the Acromas policy alongside roadside assistance cover  from a well-known 
motoring organisation (MO). The MO administers the breakdown  repair policy  on Acromas 
behalf. So, for ease  Ill refer to the actions  of the MO as being  those of Acromas except 
where those actions arent Acromas responsibility and the MO was providing another  
service such as breakdown recovery.
background
On 1 March 2019,  Mr S car broke-down. The MO attended and said his car had an oil leak 
which would require a garage to look into. Mr S didn't  find a garage  to look into the problem 
at that time. On 29 April Mr S car wouldn't start. The MO came  out and said his car had a 
fault which it thought was connected to the cars  fuel pump. Mr S took his car to a garage. 
The garage spoke  with Acromas. The garage  said that the car had a number of issues  
including the oil leak and a problem with the fuel pump. Acromas  was considering paying for 
some of the work the car required, for example to the fuel pump,  but asked the garage to 
ring it back  with costings to repair the car. The garage didn't call it back.
The garage replaced Mr S cars engine with a second-hand engine.  It appears that it didn't 
replace the fuel pump at that time.  Mr S paid the garage £700 for the repairs. He asked 
Acromas to contribute to the costs of repair under the terms of his policy. Acromas turned 
down Mr S claim. Mr S didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Mr S complaint.  She thought Acromas had dealt with Mr S fairly. 
Mr S didn't  agree so his complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr S has made a number of points. But in this decision I will focus  
on what I see as being the key outstanding issues following our adjudicators assessment.
Mr S policy says that Acromas will contribute towards the cost of repairs where  his car has 
suffered a sudden breakdown which:
 has prevented the nominated vehicle from starting or continuing its journey safely.  
And it says it won't cover a claim where:
The mechanical or electrical Failure was caused  by faults, which  you were aware of prior to 
the start of the journey on which the breakdown occurred. 
In this case almost two months  passed from the date Mr S first called the MO for help and 
him taking  a car to a garage to be repaired.  And in the meantime,  the cars odometer  
showed it had travelled  over 2,000 miles. Mr S said that he hadn't done all those miles and 
that his odometer was faulty. But I think thats  unlikely. And I note the increase  in mileage is 
Ref: DRN45167302similar when  comparing it to its mileage when it was last MOTd. So, it appears that Mr S had 
continued to use his car in the meantime.  
It follows that I don't think that the initial breakdown on 1 March  2019 had stopped  Mr S from 
continuing his journey  safely. Thats because he must have done other  journeys  in order to 
increase his mileage  by such a distance before he called the MO out on the second 
occasion. So, I don't  think  Mr S claim was covered by the terms of the policy  as the initial 
breakdown didn't stop the car from being  driven  safely for over 2,000  miles. Further,  on the 
second occasion when Mr S called the MO, at that point he had known about the issue  with 
the oil leak for almost two months. And I don't think his policy  covered him at that point  
because he was clearly  aware of the fault prior to the journey  beginning.
After hed paid to have the engine replaced Mr S asked Acromas  to consider the claim. 
Acromas did so but it noted that it hadn't authorised the repairs  before the garage had 
carried out the work. Mr S says that Acromas hadn't told the garage that it wouldn't cover the 
claim. But I havent seen any evidence that Acromas had told Mr S or the garage that it 
would cover the claim. And Ive heard  a call between Acromas  and the garage in which  
Acromas quite clearly told the garage that it wouldn't  authorise repairs until the garage 
provided costings. But there's no evidence that the garage ever called Acromas  back  for it to 
authorise the repairs. And Acromas isn't responsible for the garages actions.
Mr S said Acromas didn't  ring him or the garage  to say that it hadn't authorised the work. But 
at that point Acromas  hadn't  made a final decision on what work  it would and wouldn't  
authorise. It was waiting  for the garage to ring it back. And as I don't think  Acromas ever 
gave the garage  an instruction to go ahead  and do the work I don't think it had any reason to 
tell the garage  not to do any work. Similarly, as it hadn't told Mr S that it would undoubtedly  
cover the claim prior to the work being carried  out I don't think  it was under any obligation  to 
tell him that it hadn't authorised the work.  Thats because at that time it didn't  know  the 
garage had begun the repairs.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4516730