K821x#15complaint
Miss N has complained about payday  loans she took out with Casheuronet UK LLC (trading 
as Quick Quid). Shes said Quick Quid gave her numerous  loans  when they were 
unaffordable for her as she was already deep  in debt. 
background
I attach my provisional decision of 22 February  2019, which  forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I set out why I was intending to uphold  Miss Ns complaint. I 
invited both parties to make any further  comments before I reached a final decision. 
Following this, Miss N responded to confirm that she accepted my provisional  decision. 
Quick Quid also responded to say that it had nothing further to add to my provisional  
decision and that it would  await my final decision.   
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of anything  further for me to think about, I see no reason  to alter the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 22 February 2019, Im 
upholding Miss Ns complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC (trading  as Quick Quid) should  put 
things right in the way set out in my provisional decision of 22 February 2019. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN47348862COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss N has complained about payday loans she took out with Casheuronet  UK LLC (trading as Quick 
Quid). Shes said Quick  Quid gave  her numerous loans when they were unaffordable  for her as she 
was already deep in debt. 
background
Miss N has complained about three loans.  Her borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date taken Total Payments Total cost Max repayment Date  repaid
1 01/09/2014 £400.00 3 £640.00 £480.00 28/11/2014
2 16/03/2015 £300.00 3 £544.80 £369.60 26/06/2015
top-up 20/03/2015 £100.00 3 £723.20 £492.80 26/06/2015
top-up 21/03/2015 £100.00 3 £891.20 £616.00 26/06/2015
top-up 22/03/2015 £100.00 3 £1,064.80 £739.20 26/06/2015
3 20/07/2015 £350.00 3 £616.00 £429.80 Outstanding
One of our adjudicators  looked  at what Quick Quid and Miss N said. She eventually  concluded Quick  
Quids checks before  providing loan one were proportionate. But she also thought Quick Quids 
checks from the second  top-up  to loan two onwards  werent proportionate and such checks wouldve 
shown Quick  Quid  it shouldnt have  provided the second and third top-ups to loan two and loan three 
to Miss N. 
So our adjudicator partially upheld  Miss Ns complaint.  Quick Quid  disagreed  and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. And the case has now been passed to me. 
the legal and regulatory framework
regulation by the Financial  Conduct Authority  (FCA)
Quick Quid  gave Miss N her loans after regulation of Consumer Credit  Licensees had transferred  from 
the OFT to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  on 1 April 2014.  Quick Quid  initially obtained 
interim permission  to provide  consumer  credit before  it went  on to successfully apply for authorisation 
as a high-cost short-term  credit provider.  Quick Quids interim permission to provide consumer credit 
and its eventual  authorisation  to do so meant that it was subject to the FCA rules and regulations from 
1 April 2014.
the FCA Principles for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs  Principles  for Business set out the overarching  requirements which all authorised firms are 
required to comply  with.
PRIN 1.1.1G,  says
The Principles apply in whole  or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most  relevant principle here is PRIN 
2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly.
the Consumer Credit  sourcebook (CONC)
Ref: DRN47348863This sets out the rules which apply to providers  of consumer credit like Quick  Quid. CONC 5 sets out a 
firms obligations in relation  to responsible  lending.  And CONC 6 sets out a firms obligations after a 
consumer has entered into a regulated  agreement.
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment  between the rules set out in CONC 5 and CONC 6 and 
the Irresponsible Lending  Guidance  (ILG) published by the former regulator  of Consumer Credit 
providers the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) in March 2010. As is evident from the following extracts, 
the FCAs CONC rules specifically note and refer back to sections of the OFTs Irresponsible  Lending 
Guidance on many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a consumer a 
loan of this type. It says a firm must  consider:
(a)the potential for the commitments under the regulated  credit agreement to adversely impact  
the customers financial situation, taking into account the information of which the firm is 
aware at the time the regulated  credit agreement is to be made;  and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability  of the customer to make repayments  as they fall due over the life of the regulated 
credit agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end agreement, to make 
repayments within  a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes  guidance about proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for example,  
the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit 
not being  sustainable directly relates to the amount  of credit granted and the total charge for credit 
relative to the customers  financial situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains  further  guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when  thinking about 
affordability. And CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm 
should take into account  more than assessing the customers ability to repay  the credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2)  then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include 
the firm taking  reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet repayments under  a 
regulated credit agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties 
or experiencing significant  adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box)  and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6)  goes  on to say:
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments  under the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
Ref: DRN47348864(a)without  undue difficulties,  in particular:
(i) the customer  should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet  the repayments;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end  agreement , 
within a reasonable period;  and
(c) out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets;  and
unsustainable has the opposite  meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4)  has a 
reference to paragraphs 4.13, 4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers income 
and expenditure on a statement of those matters made  by the customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement  where  the firm 
knows or ought reasonably  to suspect that the customer has not been truthful  in completing the 
application in relation  to information supplied  by the customer  relevant to the creditworthiness  
assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
CONC 6.7 sets out a firms  obligations in relation  to its post contract business  practices. CONC 
6.7.21G, CONC 6.7.22G and CONC  6.7.23R contained specific obligations for high- cost short-term 
credit providers like Quick  Quid.
CONC 6.7.21G says:
A firm should not refinance high-cost short-term  credit  where to do so is unsustainable  or otherwise  
harmful.
[Note: paragraph 6.25 of ILG]
CONC 6.7.22G says:
A firm should not allow a customer to enter  into consecutive agreements with the firm for high-cost 
short-term credit if the cumulative effect  of the agreements would  be that the total amount payable by 
the customer  is unsustainable.
[Note: paragraph 6.25 (box)  of ILG]
Section 6.25 of the ILG is set out on pages  four and five of this decision and is concerned with what 
the OFT referred  to as deceptive and/or unfair practices.
CONC 6.7.23R  (which  applied from 1 July 2014) says:
A firm must not refinance high-cost short-term credit (other than by exercising forbearance) on more  
than two occasions.
Ref: DRN47348865CONC 6.7.17R  defines refinancing and says:
(1)In CONC 6.7.18 R to CONC 6.7.23 R refinance means to extend, or purport to extend, the 
period over which one or more repayment is to be made by a customer whether  by:
(a)agreeing with the customer  to replace, vary or supplement  an existing regulated credit 
agreement;
(b)exercising a contractual power contained in an existing regulated credit agreement;  or
(c)other means, for example, granting an indulgence  or waiver to the customer.
(2)Exercise forbearance means to refinance a regulated credit agreement  where  the result  is 
that no interest accrues at any time in relation  to that agreement  or any which  replaces, varies 
or supplements it from the date of the refinancing and either:
(a)there is no charge  in connection with the refinancing; or
(b)the only additional charge is a reasonable estimate  of the actual and necessary cost 
of the additional administration required in connection with the refinancing.
(3)The term refinance within paragraph (1) does not include where under a regulated credit 
agreement repayable in instalments a customer requests a change in the regular payment 
date and as a result  there is no charge  or additional  interest  in connection with the change.
Section 140 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974
All of Miss Ns loans  were  given to her after Section  140 of the Consumer Credit Act came into force 
on 6 April 2007. Section  140A sets out circumstances where the court may determine  that the 
relationship between  a creditor and a debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140A says:
140A Unfair relationships between  creditors and debtors
(1)The court  may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit agreement  if 
it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement)  is unfair to the debtor 
because of one or more  of the following-
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related  agreement;
(b)the way in which  the creditor has exercised  or enforced any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either  before 
or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination under  this section the court  shall have  regard 
to all matters it thinks relevant (including  matters  relating to the creditor and matters 
relating to the debtor).
(3)For the purposes of this section the court  shall (except  to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done  (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, 
an associate or a former  associate  of the creditor as if done (or not done)  by, or on behalf 
of, or in relation to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made under this section in relation to a relationship  
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
Ref: DRN47348866(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  agreement  
which is an exempt  agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of Part 2 of the 
Regulated Activities  Order by virtue of article 60C(2) of that Order  (regulated mortgage 
contracts and regulated home purchase plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could  make should it determine  that the relationship  
between the creditor and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section  140B says:
140B Powers  of court in relation to unfair relationships
(1)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or more of 
the following
(a)require the creditor, or any associate  or former associate of his, to repay (in whole  
or in part) any sum paid by the debtor or by a surety by virtue of the agreement  or 
any related agreement (whether  paid to the creditor, the associate or the former 
associate or to any other person);]
(b)require the creditor, or any associate  or former associate of his, to do or not to do 
(or to cease doing) anything specified in the order in connection  with the 
agreement or any related agreement;
(c)reduce or discharge  any sum payable  by the debtor or by a surety by virtue of the 
agreement or any related agreement;
(d)direct the return to a surety of any property provided  by him for the purposes of a 
security;
(e)otherwise set aside (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor or on a 
surety by virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g)direct accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, between 
any persons.
the law
Ive also taken  account of the Consumer Credit Act (including the provisions I havent  set out above), 
and other  relevant legislation, including  the law relating  to negligence, misrepresentation and contract; 
as well as the law relating  to causation and remoteness.
other relevant publications and good industry practice
The ILG and CONC  set out the regulatory framework  that authorised consumer credit providers have 
to adhere to. But they represent a minimum standard for firms. And Im also required to take into 
account any other guidance,  standards, relevant  codes  of practice, and, where appropriate,  what  
I consider to have been good industry practice.
the OFTs Payday Lending Compliance Review  Final  Report
The OFT published its Payday Lending  Compliance Review Final Report in March  2013.
The purpose  of the review was to establish the extent to which  payday lenders [were] complying 
with the Consumer Credit Act, other legislation  and [were]  meeting the standards set out in the ILG.
Ref: DRN47348867The review sought to highlight examples  of what the OFT considered poor practice  and evidence of 
non-compliance with the relevant law and failure  to meet the minimum standards  expected. The 
analysis was also put together to help the FCAs work on payday lending ahead of it assuming  
responsibility for regulating the sector from April 2014.
The report began with an overview section setting out the OFTs  concerns. Page two of the report 
says that the OFT:
is particularly concerned  by the evidence  of irresponsible  lending; too many people are given loans 
they cannot  afford, and when they cant repay are encouraged to extend them, exacerbating  their 
financial difficulties This is causing real misery  and hardship for a significant number of payday users
Page three of the report says:
Our evidence  paints a concerning picture of the payday lending market. It appears that irresponsible 
lending is not a problem  confined to a few rogue traders, but it has its roots  in the way competition 
works in this market. The evidence suggests that many consumers are in a weak bargaining  position, 
and that firms compete on speed of approval rather than price
It then goes on to say:
Additionally, firms describe and market  their product to consumers  as one-off short term loans (costing  
on average £25 per £100 borrowed for 30 days), but in practice around half the revenue comes from 
loans which last longer and cost a lot more because they are rolled over or refinanced.  Lenders do not 
need to compete hard for this source of revenue because by this time they have a captive market.  
This, and the misuse of continuous payment authorities to reclaim monies owed, may distort 
incentives for lenders,  encouraging them to make loans to people who cannot  afford to repay  them 
first time.
the Consumer Finance  Association Lending Code for Small Cash Advances
The principal trade association  representing  the interests of short-term  lending businesses operating 
in the United Kingdom is the Consumer  Finance  Association (CFA). The CFA published its Lending 
Code for Small Cash Advances  (the code) in July 2012.
I accept that Quick Quid wasnt a member of the CFA at the time  although I understand that it is 
now. But as the code was published by the main trade association representing short-term lenders, 
I consider it to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice  expected of lenders such as 
Quick Quid  at the time.
Whats more, most of the relevant parts  of this code went on to be included in the Good Practice 
Customer Charter Payday  and Short-term Loans  which  members of all the relevant  trade associations 
signed up to just four months later, in November 2012. 
Section 1 of the code  sets out its purpose. Section  1b says:
Members of the Consumer Finance Association offer small cash  loans predominantly from high street 
outlets or online
Section 1c says:
This type of loan allows customers to borrow  a relatively  small amount  of money, (usually between  
£50 and £1000)  which  they repay over a short period  (typically one or two months). The loan is not 
designed for longer  term borrowing, but to improve short  term personal  cash flow
And Section 1d says:
Ref: DRN47348868The purpose  of this Code is to ensure compliance by members with the minimum standards set by the 
Association, as specified in the Code, and accordingly  protects  and benefit consumers
Section 3 sets out the general obligations expected of lenders. Amongst other things Section 3 says 
members shall:
b) trade  honestly, responsibly and treat customers with respect.
l) ensure fairness in all dealings  with customers including,  but not limited to, their dealings with 
customers both before and after the making of the agreement and the manner  in which  those 
agreements are enforced.
Section 4 of the code  sets out a lenders specific  lending  obligations. Part (a) of this section is 
concerned with advertising and marketing and amongst other  things,  it says:
iii) members  shall ensure  all advertising  is truthful and not misleading and raise awareness to 
the short  term nature  of the loan.
Part (d) of section 4 is concerned with pre-contractual information. And it, amongst other things, says:
v) members  shall provide explanations to the customer, to enable them to assess  whether the 
proposed credit agreement is appropriate  to their circumstances by explaining:
that small cash loans are intended to improve  short term cash  flow, and therefore not suitable  for 
longer term borrowing.
my provisional  findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to 
provisionally decide what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance, good industry  practice and law, I think  the three 
overarching questions I need  to consider  in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Quick Quid, for each loan, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy  itself that 
Miss N would be able to repay  the loan in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would those  checks have shown that Miss N wouldve been able to do so?
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall pattern of lending 
increase Miss Ns indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful?
Did Quick Quid act unfairly  or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine  that Quick Quid did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with Miss N and that she 
has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Ive carefully considered these questions.
Did Quick Quid, for each loan, complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy  itself that Miss 
N would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
A lender  will determine its own risk appetite when providing short-term loans. In other words, itll 
decide how much risk  in relation to not getting its money back   it is prepared to accept when 
deciding to lend to a consumer. But the rules  throughout  the time Miss N was borrowing from Quick 
Ref: DRN47348869Quid  also require a lender  to carry out a reasonable assessment  of whether the borrower can afford  
to meet the repayment (or repayments) in a sustainable  manner.
This is commonly referred to or called an affordability assessment or affordability check. And a 
lender is required to carry out any such affordability assessment in addition to any creditworthiness 
assessment to assess the level of its risk. Affordability checks  should  be both borrower-focused and 
proportionate. Its whether  Quick Quid fulfilled  this obligation  to Miss N that is what Im concerned  
about and is the first key question I have to determine  in order  to decide this case.
What constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors  
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower (such as their financial 
history, current  situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the 
amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same customer, a proportionate check  
could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to repay a given loan 
amount from a lower  level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be 
greater and the customer is required  to make payments for an extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during which 
a customer has been given  loans  (reflecting the risk that ongoing use of these loans may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which  could  influence  how detailed  a proportionate check should be 
for a given loan application  including  (but not limited  to) any indications of borrower vulnerability, any 
foreseeable changes in future  circumstances, or any substantial time gaps between loans. Ive thought  
about all the relevant factors in this case.
loan one
Its important to note that loan one was Miss Ns first with Quick Quid. So there cant  have been any 
established pattern in Miss Ns borrowing needs at this stage.  Quick Quid  says that before it provided 
loan one, it asked Miss N to confirm her monthly income and her monthly expenditure. It also says that 
it ran credit  and employment  checks to verify the reasonableness of the information Miss N provided. 
In my view,  the amount  Miss N was lent did represent a significant proportion  of her stated monthly 
income. But Im also mindful that Miss N did have three pay periods before she was required to make 
her largest  repayment. And the first two monthly payments were  for significantly lower amounts. 
So taking all of these factors together, I think that Quick  Quids checks before providing loan one to 
Miss N were reasonable and proportionate. And Im not intending to uphold the complaint about  this 
loan.
loans two and three
Ref: DRN473488610Before I look in detail at the checks  Quick Quid carried out for these  particular loans,  I have a few 
general observations about the arguments Quick Quid has made about  its overall process at the time. 
Quick Quid  says it started implementing changes to its affordability assessment  in June 2014 and all 
the changes were completed by Feb 28th 2015. Starting 1st March , 2015  before Miss N borrowed her 
second loan, Quick  Quid  had implemented  an affordability review  that is consistent with the FCA 
Handbook and that was in place  at the time we received authorisation by the FCA. We confirm that 
this assessment was conducted properly and individually for each of these last five loans.
Quick Quid  seems to be saying that because it reviewed its processes and incorporated  regulatory 
changes all loans for all customers granted from 1 March 2015 onwards cant  have been provided 
irresponsibly. Although in its response to our adjudicators assessment, it does row back on this a little 
by saying  that being  granted FCA authorisation didnt grant it immunity to lend and that there may be 
cases where a loan is determined to be unaffordable even after Quick Quid  was granted  FCA 
authorisation. 
To be clear,  I dont agree with what  Quick  Quid has said.  It doesnt follow that a firm cannot have 
acted unfairly  or unreasonably (which  above all is what Im considering here) simply because  it has 
been authorised and is regulated by the FCA. This assumes that an authorised  firms regulated 
activities will always produce  a fair and reasonable  outcome for all consumers. 
I also want  to make it clear that my decision here is limited to the facts of this case. What I am 
deciding, in this case, is whether Quick Quid met its obligations to Miss N when it lent to her  not 
whether Quick Quids lending model is compliant or what outcomes this might produce for other 
consumers. 
When it was informed  that the complaint  was being passed to an ombudsman,  Quick Quid  also 
provided a further 13 page document  which  contained a high level overview of its lending process. 
The final page of this document says that Quick Quid considers the checks  it carried  (and still carries) 
out will be proportionate  in every circumstance. 
Indeed the response says that Quick Quid strongly believes that the procedures in place are solid and 
appropriate for any application. It goes on to say that it considers each  application for a loan as if it 
was a first time application.  And its unfair to say that its checks werent proportionate simply because  
it didnt ask for bank statements as a matter of course.
But I cant see how doing the same thing over and over again, irrespective of the circumstances, can 
always be proportionate.  In my view, the use of the word proportionate  in the regulations and 
guidance - means  there  should always be a direct relationship between  the circumstances of a 
particular loan application  and the degree of information a lender will need  to gather  in order to make 
an informed decision.  After  all, an assessment of affordability is a borrower rather than lender focused  
test. 
So I wont simply  take it as read that Quick Quids process will have provided a fair outcome because 
its checks are always proportionate in every circumstance  and I have no intention of automatically 
rejecting Miss Ns complaint on this basis.
Quick Quids  13 page document also says that it considers each loan application as if its a 
consumers first. But Im not necessarily persuaded by this argument either. I say this because Quick 
Quids document appears to suggest that it regards  paid off loans, in themselves, as an indicator of 
better creditworthiness, rather  than as an indicator further information should be obtained from the 
borrower. This to me suggests that Quick  Quid believes a repeat borrower is more likely to find a later 
loan affordable simply because they mightve  paid off previous ones.  
Ref: DRN473488611I now turn to what Quick Quid says it did before providing  Miss N with loans  two (including the top ups) 
and three.
Quick Quid  says that it asked Miss N for her monthly income and expenditure information  when she 
applied for these loans. In addition, it says it used a third-party credit  reference agency to validate  the 
reasonableness of Miss Ns stated income. It then used a combination of the credit  report data it 
obtained and Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to determine the reasonableness of Miss Ns 
stated expenditure. 
Ive considered what these checks showed and whether what was done was reasonable  and 
proportionate.
oloan two and first top-up
For loan two, Quick Quids checks resulted in Miss Ns declared monthly disposable income of £825 
being substituted for an estimated monthly disposable income of £543.22 per month.  Miss N was 
given an initial £300  which required her to pay £544.80 in total (not £464.80 as argued by Quick 
Quid). She had to make one payment of £103.20 in April 2015,  one of £72 in May 2015 and a final 
payment of £369.60 in June 2015.
So it seems  to me that irrespective of whether Quick Quid relied on Miss Ns declared  monthly  
disposable income,  or its own enhanced check Miss N appears  to have been able to sustainably make 
the repayment to the initial loan deposit for loan two. 
As this is the case and bearing in mind  it was approaching almost four months since Miss N repaid  her 
first loan, I think that Quick  Quids  checks before  providing the initial amount  for loan two were  
reasonable and proportionate. 
Equally given  the initial  top-up to loan two didnt  make too much of a difference  to the headline  figures  
that needed to be repaid each month, and its entirely possible Miss N needed a first top-up because 
she simply underestimated how much she needed when she made  her initial loan application, Im 
prepared to accept that these funds werent  unfairly  or irresponsibly provided as the checks carried out 
were reasonable and proportionate too.
So Im not intending to uphold Miss Ns compliant  about the initial advance  and first top-up for loan 
two.
oloan two second and third top-ups
While Im prepared to accept that the checks carried out before the initial  loan amount and first top-up 
for loan two were provided  were reasonable and proportionate,  I dont think  that I can fairly and 
reasonably reach  that conclusion  for the second and third top-ups to loan two. 
I say this for a number of reasons. Firstly, the second and third top-ups  for loan two took Miss Ns 
maximum repayment  significantly over her what Quick  Quid had determined  was her monthly  
disposable income.  I accept that Miss N had lower repayments  for the first two repayments.  And Im 
aware that Quick Quid Quids process, at this particular  time, would also have  required a digital 
signature from Miss N confirming  that she understood the maximum repayment amount was higher 
than her monthly disposable  income and that shed have to carry  over a portion of her disposable  
income from the first two months, when  her payments were substantially  lower,  in order to make the 
final payment.
But as Miss N was already coming back for further funds  (on a second and third occasion),  I dont 
think it was reasonable or proportionate for Quick  Quid  to proceed on the basis Miss N would be able 
to carry forward disposable  income from months one and two to month three.  Miss Ns request for 
further funds through the top-ups strongly indicated  that she wouldnt have been able to do this. After 
all why would she have needed to borrow  further,  if she had been carrying forward these funds?  
Ref: DRN473488612I want  to make it clear that, in reaching this conclusion, I have seen Quick  Quids arguments about the 
appropriateness of providing these  deferred  principle  or balloon payment loans. And while I dont think 
that comparing this loan to interest only mortgages and personal contract purchase loans, where the 
consumer an asset is involved, provides a fair like for like comparison, Im not saying that it is unfair 
for Quick  Quid  to offer this type of loan per se.     
What Im saying here is that given what had happened during the course  of its lending history with 
Miss N  her taking top-ups on loan two, Quick Quid ought to have  realised that it was unlikely Miss N 
would carry over disposable  income into months two and three. By the time of the borrowing  in 
question, Miss Ns actions up to that point suggested it was unlikely that shed be able to do this, even 
though she mightve been aware thats what she needed to do so. 
In these circumstances, I dont think it was reasonable  and proportionate for Quick Quid  to have 
ignored the reality of what Miss Ns borrowing history was demonstrating in favour of any declaration 
she may have  signed. 
So given the particular circumstances  of Miss Ns borrowing for loan two, Im inclined  to say that Quick 
Quid needed  to do more  before giving Miss N the second and third top-ups on loan two. I think  that it 
wouldve been  reasonable  and proportionate for it to have taken steps to verify Miss Ns actual 
financial position, in order to fairly and reasonably  determine whether she would  be able to sustainably 
make the payments on the revised schedule. 
And as Quick Quid didnt do this, Im inclined to say that Quick Quids checks before the second and 
third top-ups on loan two werent reasonable and proportionate.
oloan three
Miss N approached Quick  Quid  for loan three less than a month  after having managed to repay  loan 
two. And this time she was seeking an initial amount that was more  than the initial amount for loan 
two. Quick Quid says that Miss N monthly disposable income was worked out to be £201.22. Miss N 
was once  again given  a three payment  loan.  The payment schedule set out that Miss N had to make a 
first payment  of £103.74  in August 2015, a second payment of £82.46 in September  2015 and a final 
payment of £429.80 in October 2015.
So Miss N was once again given a loan where  the final payment was more  than her ascertained 
monthly disposable  income. Only this time the final payment was for more  than double what Quick  
Quid worked out was her monthly disposable income.
As Ive explained, loan three was provided less than a month  after loan two was repaid. So I think  that 
Quick Quid  ought fairly and reasonably  to have been alert to the possibility Miss N mightve been 
seeking further  funds to cover the hole left in her finances by the repayment of loan two. Once again, I 
do accept that Miss N is likely to have  electronically signed a declaration confirming  that she knew she 
had to carry forward disposable income from months one and two in order to make her final payment. 
But, in my view,  it wasnt fair and reasonable for Quick  Quid to simply accept  that Miss N would do this 
given the circumstances. 
Miss N approaching Quick  Quid  for loan three so soon after loan two was repaid suggested that there 
was a very real possibility Miss N would be unable to carry forward disposable  income in the way 
necessary to make the October 2015 repayment. This is especially the case as the October 2015  
repayment was more than double what Quick Quid had worked out Miss Ns monthly  disposable 
income as being. And in circumstances where Quick  Quids checks  suggested Miss Ns monthly 
disposable income  had reduced by around two thirds in the four month period between  the 
applications for loan two and loan three.  
Ref: DRN473488613Given Quick  Quids lending history with Miss N and the information Quick  Quid had itself gathered 
during the application, I think that it wouldve been reasonable and proportionate for it to have taken  
steps to verify  Miss Ns actual financial position, in order to fairly and reasonably  determine  whether 
she would be able to sustainably make the payments  on the schedule. 
 
It could have  done this by asking for information such as bank statements, copies of bills, or even 
proof of Miss Ns income. But the crux of what Quick  Quid  needed  to do was confirm that Miss N could  
make the contractual  payments, even though its lending history with her was suggesting otherwise, 
before it provided the loan.
    
Would reasonable  and proportionate  checks on the second  and third top-ups to loan two and loan 
three indicated to Quick Quid that Miss N would have been  unable to sustainably  repay  these loans?
  
Even though  I dont  think the checks Quick Quid carried  out were proportionate this doesnt,  on its 
own, mean that Miss Ns complaint should  be upheld. After all if further checks wouldve  simply shown  
Quick Quid  that these  loans werent unsustainable for Miss N (and so there  was no reason why Quick  
Quid shouldnt have lent to Miss N), then further checks wouldnt have  made  a difference. This is 
because Miss N wont have lost out as a result of Quick Quids failure to carry out proportionate and 
sufficient checks and thered be no reason for me to uphold the complaint. 
But if further checks would most likely have shown  Quick  Quid that Miss N wouldnt have been able to 
sustainably repay these  loans  then this would  mean Miss N lost out because  of Quick Quids failure to 
carry out proportionate and sufficient checks. And thered be grounds to uphold Miss Ns complaint. As 
proportionate checks werent carried  out I cant say for sure what  these checks would  have shown. But 
Miss N has provided us with some limited information on her financial circumstances  at the time she 
applied for the second  and third top-ups to loan two and loan three.  And Ive been able to get an idea 
of what  her financial  circumstances were like. 
Of course I accept  this isnt perfect as different checks show different things. And just because  
something shows up in the information Miss N has provided it doesnt mean  it wouldve shown up in 
any checks Quick Quid mightve  carried out. But the information     Miss N has provided is the best 
indication I have of what his financial circumstances were  like at the time.  And in the absence  of 
anything else I think its perfectly reasonable to rely on it. 
Its interesting to note that, in its response to our adjudicators view, Quick  Quid set out the definition of 
sustainable. It focused on section (c) of CONC 5.3.1G(6) and referred to any loan payments  having to 
be made out of income and savings without  having  to realise security or assets. But the definition  of 
sustainable is wider than this and Quick Quid didnt  refer to the detail behind section (a) (as well as 
section (b)) which focuses  on sustainable  meaning  without undue difficulties, in particular making 
repayments on time while meeting other commitments and crucially without having to borrow to meet  
the payments. 
So, in my view,  a lender  needs to do more  than simply  establish whether loan payments are affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation, in order to satisfy  itself that a consumer can repay  a loan 
sustainably. Of course, any loans payments being affordable on this basis might be a good indication  
of a consumer being able to sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically  follow  this 
is the case. And, in my view, if a lender realises, or it ought fairly and reasonably  to realise, that a 
consumer wont be able to make, or they are unlikely to be able to make, their repayments without 
borrowing further then it follows that it out to realise  a consumer wont be able to sustainably repay a 
loan. 
Ive thought about all of the information Ive been provided with in this context.
Ive carefully looked through everything Miss Ns provided. The information Ive been provided with 
shows Miss N had an overdraft which she was in continually in throughout  the period she was 
borrowing from Quick  Quid. And Miss N was nowhere near seeing  a credit balance even when she 
received her monthly salary.  Miss N was also paying a significant amount of overdraft interest each 
Ref: DRN473488614month. Indeed  she was struggling to make ends meet to such an extent that she appears to have 
been making  reduced  (or minimum) payments to her existing creditors and she was supplementing 
her overdraft by borrowing  from other short-term lenders too. 
So I think that proportionate  checks would more likely  than not have shown Quick Quid  that Miss N 
wouldnt have been able to make the payments for the second and third top-ups to loan two and loan 
three without  borrowing further (most likely from unsustainable sources) and so she wouldnt have 
been able to sustainably  make these payments.  
In these circumstances, I think  that reasonable and proportionate checks would have alerted  Quick 
Quid to the fact that Miss N would  not have been able to sustainably make the repayments to these 
loans.       
As this is the case, I minded to say that not only did Quick Quid fail to carry out reasonable  and 
proportionate checks before  giving the second and third top-ups to loan two and loan three, but that 
proportionate checks wouldve shown Miss N wouldnt have been able to sustainably make her 
payments to these loans.  
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the payday loans  provided, did the overall pattern of 
lending increase  Miss Ns indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful?
In addition to assessing the affordability of each individual loan provided to Miss N by Quick Quid, 
I also think  its fair and reasonable  to look at the overall pattern of lending. Im mindful here of the 
short-term purpose of this type of credit and of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  
at the time  as summarised in the earlier part of this decision.
Bearing in mind  the short-term purpose of this type of credit  and the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice at the time (as summarised in the earlier part of this decision), it seems to me there 
may be circumstances where offering a loan of this type to a customer who appears to be becoming 
reliant upon  short-term lending would be unsustainable  or otherwise harmful. This is irrespective of the 
fact that the loans, on the face of things, may appear to be affordable. 
So Ive carefully thought about  whether  it was fair and reasonable for Quick Quid to have offered Miss 
N his loans  in the circumstances  which it did. 
Quick Quid  gave Miss N three loans over a ten month period. And despite warning  signs being 
present  Miss N taking three top-ups on loan two and then taking  loan three shortly afterwards   I 
dont think that there is enough here to say it ought fairly  and reasonably to have regarded the 
emerging pattern, of Miss Ns loans perhaps becoming unsustainable and otherwise harmful, as 
having become established.  
So Im not inclined to uphold  Miss Ns complaint on this basis.
Did Quick Quid act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about  everything provided. Having  done  so, Ive not seen anything  here that 
leads me to conclude Quick Quid acted unfairly  or unreasonably towards  Miss N in some other way.  
Overall and having carefully thought  about the three overarching questions, set out on pages 8 and 9 
of this provisional decision, Im inclined to say that Quick Quid unfairly and unreasonably provided 
Miss N with the second  and third top-ups to loan two and loan three.  
As Miss N had to pay interest  and charges   as a result of being given these advances  when she 
shouldnt have been, I also think that Miss N lost out because of what  Quick Quid  did wrong. So I think 
that Quick Quid should fairly and reasonably put things right. 
Ref: DRN473488615putting things  right - what Im intending to tell Quick Quid it needs to do to put things right  for 
Miss N.
In order  to put things right for Miss N, Quick  Quid should:
refund all the interest and charges Miss N paid on the second and third top-ups to loan two; and
add interest  at 8% per year simple on the above interest and charges  from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement;
remove  any and all interest and charges added to loan three from the outset;
remove  any adverse information recorded on Miss Ns credit file as a result of the interest and 
charges on these loans;
HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid  must give 
Miss N a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
I understand there was an outstanding  balance on loan three when Quick  Quid provided its file on 
Miss Ns complaint to us. If an outstanding balance  remains then Quick Quid  can deduct  this from the 
compensation it now needs  to pay Miss N for the second and third top-ups to loan two. 
Id like to remind Quick Quid  of its obligation to treat Miss N positively and sympathetically should  she 
be experiencing  financial  difficulty   if an outstanding balance remains on loan three even after all 
interest and charges refunds  have been applied and it wishes to collect this debt. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to partially uphold Miss Ns complaint  and tell 
Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid) to pay redress  as set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence  I get by 8 March 2019  changes my mind, thats what Ill tell 
Quick Quid  to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4734886