K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy with Experian Limited as his credit report included some of his wifes 
financial details  and he says this decreased his credit score and led to him being declined  
a credit card.
background
Mr P applied for a new credit card in October 2018  and was declined. He says his 
application was part of a work event  and being declined caused  him embarrassment and 
reputational damage.
He got in touch with Experian shortly after and they explained that some of his wifes details 
had been included in his credit details. They said this was a technical error due to their 
names being very similar, sharing the same address and also being financial associates.
Experian apologised and said theyd put things right and offered him £150 compensation. 
They also asked Mr P to send them any evidence that showed his credit card application  
was declined because  of their error.
Mr P wasnt  happy with this. He says this had happened before and he wanted Experian  to 
confirm it wouldnt happen again.  He also thought he should  be compensated for a higher 
amount.
Our investigator didnt  think there was enough  information to show that Experians error was 
the reason Mr P was declined for the credit  card. And said he couldnt ask Experian to 
ensure the error didnt occur  again.  Overall, he thought £150 was enough  compensation for 
what had happened.
Mr P didnt agree  so the complaint  has been passed to me to review  and to make a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Ive also decided not to 
uphold Mr Ps complaint   and Ive explained  why below.
I can see that the issues Mr P was having  with his Experian credit  report  are specific to his 
individual circumstances   Experian have explained  it occurred because Mr P and his wife 
have similar names, sharing the same address and also being financial associates.  This 
meant Experians systems matched their entries.
From everything Ive seen  and from what Experian have said,  I dont think they can promise 
Mr P that the error wont reoccur. I say this because Experian have explained their systems 
are set up to match very similar details at the same address   to allow for variations or 
discrepancies in name spelling. So I dont  think it would  be reasonable for me to ask 
Experian to promise  Mr P the error  wont reoccur  or to ask them to make changes  to their 
systems to accommodate Mr Ps situation.
But Experian  have  said to Mr P if this error  happens  again, he should  let them know  and 
theyll put it right. And theyve advised  our service that if they had more information about    
Ref: DRN40891372Mr P and his wife  for example their individual electoral roll records   this might help avoid 
this problem going forward. Theyve also confirmed  they removed the error from his credit 
report. And said if he can provide evidence that shows their error led to his declined  
application, they would take it into consideration. So, given all the circumstances, I think this 
is a reasonable  response.
 
Experian have  admitted  that their error led to the drop in Mr Ps credit score. So, I dont think  
I need to investigate that further. But I do need to decide if this directly led to Mr P being 
declined a credit  card  and if so, what the impact  was.
Mr P sent us the letter that relates  to his credit  card decline  and this doesnt specify  why it 
was declined. Ive also seen a screenshot of his Experian credit  score from around the time, 
but Mr P hasnt supplied  any other information  that would be relevant  to his credit  
application. Many  different factors are taken into consideration  when businesses  decide 
whether to offer credit  including the consumers income  and expenditure, and the amount 
of credit theyre applying  for. A persons  credit report is only one of these factors.  So, looking 
at the limited evidence  available,  there isnt enough for me to say Experians error led to     
Mr Ps declined  credit card application.
I can also see that Experians  error did cause Mr P some inconvenience  for example he 
had to contact  them  about it and it wasnt the first time this had happened.  But  based on 
the limited information  available  I think Experians offer is more  than fair. 
my final decision
Experian Limited have already made an offer of £150 to settle  the complaint and I think  this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision  is that Experian Limited should pay 
£150, if they havent already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Guy Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4089137