K821x#15complaint
Miss D, who is represented by her mother,  Mrs D, complains that Blue Motor  Finance Ltd 
refused to let her reject a car which she had acquired with a hire purchase agreement.
background
In May 2018  Miss D bought  a used car with hire purchase provided by Blue. It was some  
seven years old and had done 59,000 miles. A few weeks  later she noticed a rattling sound, 
an oil leak and black smoke from the exhaust. An independent garage looked  at it and said it 
had no diesel particulate filter (DPF).  It also suggested that the symptoms may indicate 
significant wear or damage to the engine.
Miss D contacted Blue and asked to reject  the car. It was taken back to the dealer who had it 
checked and said that the DPF had been  tampered  with, but probably to clean it which 
wasnt unusual. Blue advised Miss D not to drive  the car on 18 July 2018.  On 8 August  an 
independent inspection was carried out which  had been arranged  by Blue. This stated:
We can conclude the vehicle clearly  displayed incorrect  performance at the bottom end of 
the rev range, hesitation and excessive  diesel knock consistent with removal  of the DPF. 
However, to fully confirm  the engine undertray requires removal whilst the vehicle  is on a 
workshop ramp to view the unit from the underside. It also concluded the conditions  would 
have been developing at finance  inception.
Subsequent to this the car was subjected to a second inspection and this concluded that the 
DPF had been  cut open and re-welded. It suggested  this was commensurate with the cars 
age and mileage,  but it most  likely would have  been in the same condition  when it had been 
sold to Miss D. The report also said: We can confirm starting the vehicle from cold the 
vehicle has a distinct lack of power.  No warning lights were  illuminated on the dashboard.
The car was inspected by another two garages arranged by the dealer  and no fault could be 
found. It also passed its MOT in November 2018 with no advisories.
Miss Ds complaint was considered by one of our investigators who recommended  it be 
upheld. She thought the original evidence of the problems Miss D encountered and the 
independent reports  indicted there was an issue with the car at the time of purchase.
She didnt  think any of the subsequent  evidence was sufficient to contradict this. She added 
that she didnt  think it was enough to say that as the DPF is present and the vehicle has 
passed an MOT then the issues found in the independent report  or experienced by Miss D 
could be discounted.  
She thought  there was enough evidence to show there was a fault which  was reported soon 
after purchase. The report and other opinions showed that the fault and performance  issues 
may indicate an underlying significant issue with either  the DPF filter due to previous repairs 
or damage  to the engine. 
She noted Miss D had exercised her right to ask for a repair,  but there wasnt  enough 
evidence to show that this has been completed. Considering all the circumstances she didnt  
think further inspections  or repairs could be made without further delay and inconvenience to 
Miss D. She concluded the Consumer Rights Act 2015 says that Miss D was entitled to ask 
to reject the car in these  circumstances.
Ref: DRN41902132Blue didnt  agree and said that The DPF wasnt missing as initially thought and it had passed 
the MOT which confirmed  that there were no issues with the DPF. It said no fault codes 
could be found  and the independent report confirmed the car performed well once  it had 
been running for a while. It believed the car was in an acceptable state for its age.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Blue Horse is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods
I consider this to be finely balanced matter, but after due deliberation I find myself in 
agreement with the investigator. I will explain  why.
We have conflicting  views  from trained mechanics as to the state of the car and whether it 
was fit for purpose at the time of purchase. However, I dont  believe it is in doubt there was 
an issue shortly  after purchase. This was confirmed by the first garage the car was taken to 
and by the two subsequent independent reports. At that point the main  cause was thought to 
be the DPF and much effort has been put into establishing if the car had one and whether it 
was working. 
I fear this has taken  away from the original problem Miss D found within a few weeks  of 
buying the car. Blue has suggested that given the age of the car it is acceptable  for it to lack 
power when cold.  However, I note the independent engineer refused to drive it at the second 
time due his concerns. That suggests  something  more than a minor issue  that disappears  
when the car warmed up.
I also note that the dealer was given  the opportunity to repair  the car and couldnt  find any 
fault. However, the independent reports which followed showed that there was a problem. 
Under consumer law the dealer had one opportunity to repair the car and if that failed then it 
is open to Miss D to reject  it.
Ref: DRN41902133I have said this is finely balanced decision and I have taken note of the examination  by the 
garages at the dealers  behest and the fact that the car later passed  its MOT.  The latter 
doesnt of itself demonstrate that the car didnt  have a fault. It may have found the DPF to be 
satisfactory, but it doesnt mean that there wasnt a fault which  caused the problems faced 
by Miss D when she bought the car.
Therefore I consider  that there was fault which wasnt  remedied and it is now open to Miss D 
to reject the car.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay
collect the car at no further cost to Miss D.
refund  the deposit and pay 8% simple  interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
refund  any monthly payments made since 18 July 2018  for loss of use 
pay £300 for the trouble and upset caused due to the faulty goods, including  multiple 
visits for repairs  and diagnostics.
remove any adverse information  from Miss Ds credit  file if applicable
pay any storage costs which may be incurred.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 April 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4190213