K820x#14complaint
A Limited,  represented  by Mr V, complained that Starling Bank Limited  said it could hold 
payments in both euros and sterling  in its new account. But when the company received a 
payment in euros, Starling Bank converted it to sterling, resulting in a £300 loss because of 
exchange rates.
As an outcome, A Limited wants Starling Bank  either to convert the payment back  to 9000 
euros, or to leave  it in sterling and credit the account  with £300 compensation.
background
A Limited,  represented  by Mr V, had a Business Current  Account with Starling Bank. On 12 
February 2019, the company received an incoming  payment of 8985 euros. Starling Bank  
converted this to sterling at a rate of 1.1670, and credited A Limiteds account with £7699.23.
Mr V complained to Starling Bank  by chat message. He said that the payment in euros 
shouldnt have been converted into sterling. He said that the company had opened  its new 
account with Starling Bank on the basis that it could take and keep payments in two 
separate currencies,  euros and sterling.  He said the website had led him to believe this.
Starling Bank said that it wasnt  possible to have  money in the account  in euros, and that it 
hadnt yet marketed any business  account  which could store euros.  Mr V asked Starling 
Bank to return the payment to the sender, but it refused.  Mr V then asked for a refund  of 300 
euros which he said the company had lost on the transaction. Starling refused, and A 
Limited complained,  about the transaction and about the customer service.
Starlings final response said that when A Limited  opened its account,  it had agreed to the 
general terms and conditions, business terms, and fees and charges. It said that nowhere 
was there  any mention  that euros could be held in a business account.  Starling also said that 
A Limited  had opened a sterling  account, not a euro account, so money couldnt be held in 
euros. It didnt uphold this part of A Limiteds complaint.
Starling also looked  into A Limiteds complaint about  customer  service. It said its agent had 
asked questions he needed to, but it agreed the agent shouldnt have asked for the 
complaint points, because Mr V had already made  those clear. Starling apologised, said it 
would send Mr V a small gift, and sent him a pair of socks.   
A Limited  wasnt satisfied  and complained  to this service.
The adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. He noted that the terms and conditions said that 
accounts could  receive  funds  in both sterling  and euros, but didnt say the account could 
hold funds in euros.  The adjudicator thought the wording could be improved, but generally,  if 
an account was opened in sterling, as A Limiteds  was, it would suggest the account could 
only hold funds in sterling unless stated  otherwise.
A Limited  wasnt satisfied.  Mr V said Starling Bank should have been  clearer with its 
terminology, which was misleading and clearly  open to different interpretations. As a result,  
that one transaction had left the company with a loss of 300 euros. He was also unhappy 
that Starling Bank refused to offer an alternative or come  to any other arrangement with A 
Limited, and said it had provided very poor customer service.
Ref: DRN48620112my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr V was annoyed  and frustrated because he didnt want the euro payment 
to be converted  into sterling. But what I have to decide is whether this was fair, based on the 
terms and conditions of his Business Current Account.
The relevant  section is the 12 November  2018 Current Account  General Terms  and 
Conditions. Under  Payments into your account these say You can transfer  or pay funds 
into your account in £ Sterling or Euro only.
This isnt particularly helpful,  because it doesnt  specifically say whether account holders can 
or cant hold funds in these currencies. All it says it that account holders can pay money in, 
which is what A Limited did. A Limiteds  dispute  is over the fact that once the euro deposit 
had been paid in, Starling  Bank converted the deposit to sterling.
But although  the terms and conditions could certainly be much  clearer, I dont consider that 
this means A Limited could assume  it could hold funds in one account  in both sterling and 
euros, just because the terms and conditions failed to set this out. Generally speaking,  a 
sterling account such as A Limiteds account can only hold funds in sterling. So I find it was 
reasonable for the bank  to convert the payment to euros.
During the Chat complaint, Starling told Mr V that euros could be paid into the companys 
account but it would be converted to sterling, and he couldnt  hold the money in the account 
in euros.  Mr V said that that was the same as hed had with another bank, and was the 
reason why hed moved the company account from that other bank.
Given that Mr V had found this specific issue to be a problem with his previous  bank,  I think  
it would  have been reasonable for him to have  probed Starlings facilities  and policies 
further, when  he opened A Limiteds new sterling business account   especially as its 
wording wasnt clear.
This service doesnt order banks  to change its processes  thats the role of the regulator,  
the Financial Conduct Authority. So I cant order Starling to clarify its wording. I sympathise 
with Mr Vs frustration, but I dont  think he could reasonably expect to be able to hold more 
than one type of currency  in A Limiteds  business account, when there was nothing  specific 
in Starlings terms and conditions which said that this was possible. 
So I dont  uphold A Limiteds  complaint,  and I dont require Starling either to convert the payment 
back to 9000 euros,  or to leave it in sterling  and credit  the account  with £300 compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A Limited, 
represented by Mr V, to accept or reject  my decision before 9 February 2020. 
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4862011