K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  (Lloyds) turned down a 
claim they made on their home insurance policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs K have  buildings  insurance with Lloyds. In April 2018 Mr K got in touch with it to 
make a claim as the flooring outside their bathroom  was showing signs of sagging. This was 
in an extension to the property which had been added around  five years previously. Mr K 
said he thought  this was caused  by a leak from the bath waste pipe which  hed repaired the 
previous July. 
Lloyds investigated  and found there was extensive dry rot in the property and this was 
affecting the floor. However,  it wasnt  clear  whether that was caused  by the leak 
Mr K had mentioned.  So Lloyds said it wasnt  able to say whether repairs were covered by 
the policy. It was agreed Mr and Mrs K would arrange for strip out work  at the property which  
would make it easier to establish the cause  of the problem  and whether  this was covered 
by their insurance. Lloyds  told the loss assessors acting for Mr and Mrs K this was on a 
without prejudice  basis.  
After the strip out work had been  carried out further  investigations took place. A trace and 
access report found there were a number of issues at the property  which were allowing 
water penetration through the external walls and door (for example gaps between  an exterior 
drain and the wall). Lloyds  acknowledged  the report didnt pinpoint which of these was the 
cause of the problem but it thought it likely  the rot resulted  from one of the identified  issues 
and not the previous leak. So it turned down Mr and Mrs Ks claim because these werent 
insured events under the terms of their policy. 
Our investigator thought that was fair but Mr and Mrs K didnt agree. They thought the cause 
of the problem was the leak from the bath waste  pipe. They  provided some  additional photos 
in support of this. And they said theyd had to pay for strip out work which their loss 
assessors said they wouldnt have to do. So I need to reach a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this has been a distressing and stressful experience for Mr and Mrs K which  has 
been ongoing for some time. Ive thought carefully  about whether Lloyds has done anything  
wrong in turning down the claim they made. 
The relevant  rules say Lloyds should  handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldn't 
unreasonably reject a claim. And the terms of Mr and Mrs Ks policy  say it will cover loss or 
damage to the buildings caused by escape  of water  from any domestic  appliance or any 
fixed domestic water installation. But it goes  on to say the policy doesnt cover wet and dry 
rot or mould unless this was caused directly by any event insured by this policy . 
Ref: DRN40182542I dont think its in dispute that Mr and Mrs Ks property is affected by dry rot and thats the 
cause of the problem with the floor. I think the only insured  event in their policy relevant to 
this is the escape of water clause Ive quoted above. And if the water leak Mr K repaired in 
July 2017 caused the dry rot (and subsequent  problems) this is potentially something  their 
policy would cover. But if the cause  is something  else an insured event wont  have taken 
place. And where a consumer makes a claim  the onus is on them to show  that, on the 
balance of probabilities, an insured event caused the damage or loss. 
Ive reviewed the evidence and, in particular, the reports of the investigations at Mr and 
Mrs Ks property  to decide if Lloyds  has acted fairly  in deciding  an insured event hasnt taken 
place here.  I dont find the initial  report  that helpful because,  although this identified there 
was substantial dry rot to the joists, it didnt reach any view on what  the cause of this was. 
Of more assistance is the trace and access report carried out after the stripping out work had 
taken place. This identified a defect with the waterproofing  of an external door. It also found 
there was moisture penetration through an external wall which  was likely caused by 
problems with a drain  that ran alongside it. The photographs in the report show  there is a 
gap between the render on the external  wall and the edge of the drain. And that matches  
where damp  issues were  identified on the corresponding internal wall. I think  that suggests  a 
plausible cause for the dry rot issues in the extension. 
The report  also identified an issue with bath seals which  it said could allow  water  to reach 
underneath the bath area. However,  I note when Lloyds visited the property they carried  out 
an inspection under the bath which found  the area was dry. So I think  its unlikely any issues 
with the bath seals are the cause of the wider problem. In addition  it doesnt appear any 
evidence of rot was found under the bath at that time or behind the adjacent skirtings  in the 
hall. But this was apparent on the opposite wall which the external  drain  runs along the 
outside of. I also note that although  meter readings found high levels of moisture in the 
external walls of the property this wasnt the case in the internal  walls. 
And while a separate report on the treatment  of the dry rot did say this appears to be 
caused by escape of water it doesnt  provide  any other evidence in support of that view. I 
can see Lloyds subsequently spoke to the surveyor involved  who clarified he wasnt  
attributing the problem to a specific leak but to water being  the cause of the rot. 
Looking at the available evidence I dont  think  Lloyds  acted unfairly  in concluding  the cause 
of the problem was more  likely to be the identified issues with water entry through  the 
external walls and door of the property rather than the previous water leak.  I dont think  Mr 
and Mrs K have done enough to show an insured event has taken place.
I understand that following  the work to their property  Mr and Mrs K have  new evidence which 
they believe supports  their position.  However, thats something Lloyds will need to consider  
in the first instance  as it didnt have the opportunity to see that when making its decision on 
the claim.  I understand Mr and Mrs K have sent that information on to it. 
Ref: DRN40182543I know Mr and Mrs K are also unhappy  at having to pay for the strip out costs at their 
property. However, as the claim they made isnt covered by their policy this isnt something 
Lloyds would be responsible for. I can see Lloyds explained to the loss assessors acting for 
Mr and Mrs K that it wasnt able to confirm  cover and suggested the strip out take place  on a 
without prejudice  basis. Mr and Mrs Ks concern appears to be that their loss assessors  
didnt make that clear  to them.  If so thats  an issue they may wish to take up with that firm  
though in order to rectify  the damage at their property  it does  look like this is a cost they 
would always have  had to bear.  
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to accept  or reject my decision before 
10 March 2020.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4018254