K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that QBE Insurance (Europe) Limited delayed handling of his claim for 
damage to a vehicle  under his motor  insurance policy  that he uses  for his business. He also 
complains that QBE didnt  offer him a suitable replacement  vehicle during the repairs, and 
about a phone call he had with QBE.
background 
Mr H was involved in a collision on 7 June 2018  and contacted QBE. QBE  said it offered a 
replacement vehicle on 11 June,  which  Mr H declined as he needed  a particular vehicle with 
a tow bar while  his was in for repair. QBE said it asked its agents to help Mr H and its agents 
said it spoke to Mr H about  his requirements  on 12 and 14 June, when  Mr H said how 
unhappy he was about delays. 
QBEs agents said it contacted many  vehicle providers but couldnt find one to exactly match 
Mr Hs requirements,  but found one that was very close.  It said in order to arrange  this it tried 
to call him and texted twice on 15 June but couldnt reach  him then, or on seven further 
attempts until 2 July, after which it closed its file. QBE said a replacement vehicle is not an 
entitlement under the policy, but its agents offer was close.
Mr H said he was available for a replacement vehicle to be arranged,  contrary to what QBE 
and its agents  said. He said nothing suitable was offered and he suffered a significant  drop 
in income for which he wanted compensation. Mr H said QBE accepted some responsibility 
for delays  in its response to his complaint, but hasnt said any more  about this. He said that 
he was passed  from pillar to post by QBE, and described a call on 14 June as unpleasant. 
QBE said it received an engineers report that Mr Hs vehicle was a total loss on 20 June, 
and confirmed this to him the same day. QBE said there was only a two day delay in the 13 
days between the accident and write off, during which time the vehicle was recovered, 
inspected, stripped and assessed. QBE  said it couldnt locate a recording of the call on 14 
June, but offered Mr H £100 compensation for any communication difficulties. 
QBE said the other drivers insurer accepted liability for the claim on 4 July, but there was a 
long dispute between insurers about  valuation which caused  some delays. QBE said Mr Hs 
policy does not offer cover for loss of earnings, but it had instructed a solicitor  to pursue 
Mr Hs uninsured losses, under the legal expenses cover provided by his policy. QBE said it 
stopped when Mr Hs own legal representatives  said it was pursuing his claim.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She said Mr Hs policy doesnt 
provide him with a replacement vehicle. She said QBE explained to Mr H that as it was a 
non-fault claim he could recover his loss of earnings from the other party  and it had only 
stopped pursuing  this on his behalf  when contacted by his own legal representative. 
The investigator said that QBEs agents  had records of multiple attempts to contact Mr H 
with a similar replacement vehicle, but were unable to reach  him. She said QBE took a 
reasonable amount of time to handle Mr Hs claim and its offer of £100 compensation for any 
misunderstandings during calls was reasonable.
Mr H disagreed with the investigator saying he wanted £400  compensation  and he 
requested an ombudsman to review  his complaint.
Ref: DRN40125162my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr H has also complained that the cost of 
renewing his insurance has increased  despite his claim being non-fault.  QBE has just sent 
him its final response to his complaint  and if Mr H wishes he can now bring this as a 
separate complaint to our service. 
From the claim notes it would appear  that the delay in resolving Mr Hs claim was caused by 
the third partys insurer. Mr H called on 11 June 2018 to seek a decision on liability,  but the 
other insurer didnt  respond  to QBEs request for a decision  until 4 July. I can see from the 
call notes that Mr H was unhappy about the time taken,  but I can see that QBE was in 
regular contact with the other insurer to get a decision and so I cant hold it to blame  for this. 
I can see there was a delay between 11 and 13 June  in the assessment of Mr Hs vehicle  
he complained  and spoke to a manager at QBE   but unfortunately theres  no recording of 
this call. The call note is a matter of fact description of the position of Mr Hs claim and his 
complaint about  slow progress. It gives no indication of any unpleasantness  that may have 
passed between  Mr H and QBEs staff and I dont  have  enough  information  to uphold this 
part of Mr Hs complaint.  
I have seen the record of the other  calls between Mr H and QBE and I agree with the 
investigator that these  could have been handled  a bit better. I think the £100 compensation 
offered to Mr H is about right for this poor service  and QBEs slight  delay in arranging  the 
assessment of Mr Hs vehicle.
During Mr Hs calls with QBE,  its notes record that it explained he had no entitlement to a 
replacement vehicle under his policy. I have  checked Mr Hs policy and it states there is no 
cover for loss of use of his vehicle. QBE  explained  that he may be able to arrange a suitable  
vehicle with another company that it recommended, who would then seek to recover  the 
costs from the other partys insurer. The notes record  detailed conversations  with Mr H about 
his requirements, but contact goes dead  after that. 
I have looked  at the contact notes from QBE to see if reasonable efforts were made to talk to 
Mr H about a vehicle.  QBEs records show a number of phone  conversations  with Mr H and 
from what Ive seen  the other company  found  a vehicle very close  to Mr Hs requirements  
and its very unfortunate that he couldnt  be reached. From what Ive seen, QBE made 
reasonable efforts to contact and assist Mr H with his needs.
QBEs records show that it instructed solicitors to pursue Mr Hs uninsured  losses on his 
behalf, but discontinued  on advice from Mr Hs legal representatives. This seems 
reasonable, but QBE has said if Mr H wants to get back in touch it will take his claim forward 
for his uninsured  losses, including loss of earnings.
I can see that Mr H suffered an accident that wasnt his fault, and then had problems that 
followed on from this. However,  I havent found that QBE has made  a mistake or treated him 
unfairly, other than its acknowledgement of poor communications,  and I think its offer of 
£100 compensation is fair for this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Ref: DRN40125163Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4012516