K820x#14Complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about the service provided  by BMW Financial Services  (GB)  Limited 
(trading as Alphera Financial Services Alphera) when he changed the payment date on his 
hire purchase agreement (HPA).
Background
Mr H entered into a HPA with Alphera in June  2018  to acquire a used car. He 
contacted Alphera  to move his payment date due to a change in his employment 
situation. However he said this resulted in two payments being  requested  in the 
same month and his account going into arrears.
Mr H said he raised a complaint about this in February and March  2019 but his 
complaint wasnt acknowledged. He said he received  threatening letters asking for 
the arrears to be cleared and that he offered to set up a payment plan but this was 
rejected without consideration. 
Alphera said that Mr H was correctly advised when he contacted  it to change his 
payment date and the date was changed  as requested. It said that Mr H was liable 
for the £127.04  that was outstanding on his account.
After investigating,  our investigator  concluded  the complaint should  not be upheld.
Mr H doesnt agree. 
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr H contacted Alphera on 21 February  2019,  to change his February  payment (due 26th 
February) date to 16th March. The call recording isnt available  for this call however the notes 
say that Mr H wanted to change  his February 26th payment to March  16th and the March 
payment was changed from 26th to 16th. 
Without the call recording  it isnt clear what Mr H was told on the February  call. I note the 
system notes for the 21 March call say that Mr H was told that when he had called in 
February the February payment  had already been  called for and so couldnt be changed  and 
that the March  date was changed. So while I can see he was made aware  of the situation  at 
this time, it is not clear that Mr H was made aware of this on the February  call.
That said,  as the request  to change the payment  date was only a few days before the 
February payment  was due I do not find it unreasonable that the February  payment  couldnt 
be changed at this time. Mr Hs payment date was changed to 16th from March  which  
appears to be in line with his request.
Mr Hs payment on 26th February was rejected  and payment wasnt made  until March. While  
I understand why Mr H is upset about the timing  of the payments, as a payment was missed 
in the February  / March  period, I find it reasonable that he is liable for this.
Ref: DRN41006242When Mr H contacted Alphera on 21 March he wanted to complain  about  the arrears  on his 
account. Alphera attempted to call Mr H the following day but this appears  to have been 
unsuccessful. Mr H was sent an email  saying that he could contact Alphera. I can see why 
Mr H is upset as his complaint wasnt acknowledged at this time. However at this point  it 
appears that Alphera was unaware of the basis for the complaint as it believed Mr H had 
been correctly  informed regarding the payment  date change. 
Mr H made  contact again in May and his complaint was escalated.  He was then provided 
with a final response letter. At this time Mr H offered to increase his monthly payments to 
pay the arrears. This wasnt  accepted and Mr H was told the monthly payment amount 
couldnt be changed. At this point I think it would have been  reasonable for Alphera to have 
offered repayment  options to Mr H, especially given there was a note about previous 
financial difficulties on his file. 
Overall, while  I think Alphera could have provided  Mr H with better  service  (it isnt clear if he 
was given all the information on the February  call and he could have been provided with 
more options when he offered to repay the arrears), I still find that he is liable for the missing 
payment of £127.04.  Alphera has now agreed  that a payment plan can be set up which  I find 
reasonable. Mr H should  get in touch with Alphera  if he wishes to discuss this.
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about BMW Financial Services  (GB) 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4100624