K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mrs B says Bank of Scotland plc, who were  trading at the time as Halifax,  mis-sold  her 
the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read and considered  the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments  to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider  it, but because I dont think  I need  to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when there are no documents  available  
from the time of the sale. Its maybe not surprising that neither party  has been able to 
provide any documentation as these  events happened over 21 years  ago. 
Ive thought about whether Halifax secured Mrs Bs agreement to the cover  and made it 
clear that she had a choice about taking it. Halifax has provided a sample application form 
which would have required  a box to be ticked to get the PPI. And considering  how long ago 
the sale was in this case,  I havent  seen sufficient evidence  to be able to uphold the 
complaint on these points.  So having considered  all the submissions I have  received  in this 
case, I think its more likely  that Halifax wouldve made Mrs B aware  that the PPI was 
optional and that she chose to take it, even though she may not remember that now, many  
years later. 
Ive not been provided a policy document from the time of the sale.  But Halifax  has given us 
a policy  document  from soon after the time of sale and Ive also considered other policy  
documents from around this time. Having thought carefully about  this, I think its most likely 
that the terms and conditions  of these policies are broadly similar to the one sold to Mrs B. 
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mrs B. This meant Halifax  needed to take 
reasonable steps to find out about  her needs and make sure the policy was suitable  for her. 
I think Halifaxs recommendation was right for Mrs B based on what  Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Ive seen nothing  to make me think Mrs B wasnt eligible for the policy. And it doesnt 
look like she wouldve  been affected by any of the main  things the policy  didnt cover, 
for example,  any unusual employment  terms or pre-existing  medical  conditions.
Ref: DRN40185962Mrs B said her initial  sick pay was good  but it dropped significantly after six months if 
she was unwell. And Mrs B told us that she had no other means  she could rely on if 
something went wrong.  The PPI policy wouldve covered Mrs B if she couldnt  work 
through accident or sickness,  or if she lost her job, and that cover could have repaid 
the insured balance on her card. And it wouldve paid out in addition  to any sick pay 
or redundancy payment she might have received. So, considering  all of this, I think 
Mrs B couldve found the policy useful. 
The policy cost appears  to have been comparable  to other similar  policies at the time 
and it appears to have  been  affordable. I have seen insufficient evidence  that the 
cost of the policy was unaffordable to Mrs B at the time she was sold it, such  that it 
led to financial difficulties as she told us. 
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think the policy  was suitable for Mrs B.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mrs B, Halifax also had to give her clear enough 
information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted  to buy it. Its possible  the 
information Halifax gave  Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. But for 
the same  reasons Ive mentioned above  that I think the policy was suitable  for her, I dont 
think better information wouldve stopped her from buying it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint and I make  no award against Bank 
of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject  
my decision  before 23 June 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4018596