K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains about AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds refusal to contribute towards her 
specialists fees under her private medical  insurance  policy. 
background
Mrs A holds a private medical insurance  policy. Under the policy,  AXA will cover the fees 
charged by recognised specialists. 
In 2018, Mrs A wanted AXA to authorise treatment  by a specialist (Mr W). AXA explained it 
didnt recognise  Mr W so it wouldnt  cover  his costs. However, it gave  Mrs A the names of 
some alternative specialists who were recognised and whose fees it would cover  in full. 
Mrs A decided to have the treatment with Mr W, regardless  of AXAs decision not to cover 
his fees. She complained to AXA about  its decision, and asked that it pay the amount it 
would pay a recognised specialist for the treatment, and said she would cover the shortfall. 
AXA refused  to agree to this, and so Mrs A has brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought  AXA was entitled  
to decide which specialists it wanted  to recognise. 
Mrs A was unhappy with our investigators findings, so the matters  been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy says:
Medical practitioners fees for treatment in hospital  and surgical procedures are 
eligible for benefit, subject to any limits of this policy.
and
We will pay eligible fees in full when a medical practitioner, physiotherapist  or 
complementary practitioner charges up to the level shown within the schedule  of 
procedures and fees.
Medical practitioner is defined in the policy as:
a medical  or dental practitioner with full registration under the Medical Acts, who meets  
our criteria for specialist recognition for benefit  purposes, and who we have told in writing 
that we currently  recognise him/her as a specialist for benefit purposes  in his/her field of 
practice. 
Im satisfied the policy confirms that it covers treatment carried out by recognised specialists. 
As the investigator  has explained, its up to AXA to decide whether  a particular specialist 
should be recognised. 
Ref: DRN46175502Mr W was previously recognised by AXA, but it de-recognised  him some years  ago. 
Although Ive been provided with correspondence between  AXA and Mr W relating to AXAs  
decision to de-recognise  him, the matter is between those parties  and I cant comment on it. 
Mrs A has asked  if AXA would pay her the amount  it would have paid a recognised 
specialist, and she will cover the shortfall. Ive considered this, but given that AXA made it 
clear to Mrs A before she had the treatment that Mr W wasnt  recognised and his fees 
wouldnt be covered  (and also gave her the option of seeing  other  specialists whose fees 
would be covered), I see no reason to require  AXA to go outside the terms of the policy and 
pay the amount  it would have paid for a recognised specialist.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4617550