K821x#15complaint
Mr W is unhappy with FirstRand Bank Limiteds  response to his complaint about  the quality 
of a car he acquired  by way of a hire purchase  agreement with it.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision of 8 March 2019. Rather 
than repeat all of the detail here,  Ive included a copy  of my provisional decision.
Since then,  Mr W has let us know he has nothing further to add. FirstRand hasnt  submitted 
any further arguments or evidence and so, as the deadline to respond has passed,  Im 
proceeding to issue my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I set out my intention to uphold the complaint, along with my reasoning, in my provisional 
decision. As neither party has added anything further to consider I see no reason to depart 
from those findings.  Im upholding Mr Ws complaint against FirstRand for the reasons Ive 
already set out. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct FirstRand Bank  Limited to:
collect the car at no further cost to Mr W;
end the finance agreement and remove it from Mr Ws credit file;
refund  payments made by Mr W from January 2018, when his usage of the car came 
to an end, plus interest at 8% from the date they were paid to the date of settlement;
refund  the total deposit (cash  plus part-exchange value) of £995, plus interest  at 8% 
from the date it was paid to the date of settlement;
refund  the insurance costs for the nine months of the policy year where Mr W didnt 
have use of the car, totalling £140.32,  plus interest at 8% from the date it was paid to 
the date of settlement;
refund  the tax costs for the nine months of the year where Mr W didnt have use of 
the car, totalling  £364, plus interest  at 8% from the date it was paid to the date of 
settlement; and
refund  the £319.20 cost paid by Mr W for the DPF replacement  plus 8% interest  from 
the date it was paid to the date of settlement.
If FirstRand Bank Limited considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from any interest  award, it should tell Mr W how much  its taken off. It should also 
Ref: DRN48290712give Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN48290713Copy of Provisional Decision
Ive considered the relevant  information about Mr Ws complaint. Based on what  Ive seen so far 
I intend  to uphold  his complaint.
complaint
Mr W is unhappy  with FirstRand Bank Limiteds response  to his complaint about the quality of a 
car he acquired by way of a hire purchase agreement with it.
background
Mr W entered a hire purchase  agreement to acquire a car on 19 October  2017.  The car was around 
eleven years  old at the time of purchase and had covered 148,500 miles. Its worth noting here that 
some documentation suggested the mileage  was 141,000 when the car was sold. But MOT  
certification, along with the finance agreement, confirms the mileage to be the higher figure of 
148,500 miles.
The cash price of the car was £4,995 and was satisfied as follows: £4,000 finance through  
FirstRand, £795 cash  deposit  and £200 part exchange.
In November  2017 the diesel particulate filter (DPF) light came on. Mr W contacted  the dealership 
and arrangements were made  for a replacement DPF to be provided. Mr W agreed hed take care of 
the fitting himself. He didnt have the DPF fitted right away and hes said thats because it was so 
close to Christmas. It didnt end up getting fitted  for some  time.
Mr W contacted  FirstRand on 13 January 2018 as he had significant  concerns  with the safety and 
quality of the car. Hed taken it to a franchised garage  for a health check as hed noticed  a 
knocking noise and juddering while driving  the car. The garage inspected  the car and significant 
safety concerns were highlighted.  By this time Mr W had driven the car around 3,000 miles.
After some discussion it was agreed between FirstRand, Mr W and the selling  dealership that the 
car would  be inspected again, by a different garage, and any highlighted problems would  be 
considered for repair. The car was collected on 31 January 2018 and inspected  by a different 
garage as planned. The following problems were confirmed as being present:
engine mounts in need  of replacement
oil leaking from rocker  cover  gasket
diesel leaking from injectors
power steering belt needs changing due to fuel contamination
park brake issue means rear brakes to be adjusted
The dealership then agreed to arrange for the repairs to be completed. Mr W pointed out that the list 
highlighted by the second  inspection didnt address  all of the problems. On that basis Mr W said he 
would have the car inspected again when  the repairs  were complete  as he wanted to make sure the 
car was of satisfactory quality.
By 26 February the repairs were underway, including  the fitting of the DPF (which  Mr W agreed 
to pay part of the cost for, totalling £440.40 with a £121.20 contribution from FirstRand)  and 
FirstRand issued a final response  setting out how the complaint had been settled.
On 8 March Mr W took the car to another garage for the post-repair inspection  he said he would 
have carried out. Mr W then contacted FirstRand about a month later to say the report had 
highlighted the earlier repairs werent  satisfactory and he wanted to reject the car. He provided a 
copy of the report to FirstRand  and it listed the following  problems:
vibration through  the vehicle on idle
Ref: DRN48290714engine has a loud diesel knock
inlet manifold  flap not connected/broken
oil/diesel all over underside  of the vehicle   leak?
coolant header tank loose  and not secure
exhaust back  box very corroded and slightly blowing
exhaust middle  section very corroded with flange very weak
offside  front/nearside front lower suspension arm (front) brushes worn  with play
offside  inner  tie rod end on steering rack excessive play
both rear suspension control arm brushes  are worn
front brake  discs are very corroded
wipe linkage  on offside  front is broken
FirstRand considered  the new report but wouldnt  carry out any further repairs or allow for the 
rejection of the car. It said there  was no evidence the problems were present  or developing at the 
point of sale.  It pointed to the fact Mr W had covered nearly 3,000  miles since he took possession 
of the car.
Mr W was unhappy with FirstRands response and so he brought  his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened and thought Mr W should  be able to reject the car 
and that the finance  agreement should  be ended. She felt there were  too many problems with the 
car soon after purchase  for it to be considered of satisfactory quality.
FirstRand disagreed  and asked for a review  of the case. I began  looking at the circumstances  and 
felt a more detailed  independent inspection  would be useful.  FirstRand agreed to pay for one and 
it duly took place in November.  Id ask FirstRand to ensure:
the report  commented  on the specific issues  highlighted in the previous report
to have regard to the age and mileage  of the car when  purchased
to consider the likely effects of Mr Ws usage
The report came back and confirmed there was a notable engine knock  but that further 
investigation would be required to determine the cause. It also confirmed  an actuator, likely to 
have been linked to the cars swirl flap chamber  and flaps within  the inlet manifold, had been 
disconnected. But it didnt specifically comment on the other  issues including the suspension and 
exhaust system.
It concluded that aside from these problems  the car was in a condition in keeping with its age 
and mileage.
The report incorrectly based these conclusions  on the amount of miles  covered by Mr W since 
purchase, a result of the errors on some of the documentation I referred  to earlier. The engineer  was 
under the impression  Mr W had covered almost 11,500 miles instead of under  3,000 miles.
I asked that the engineer  provide further comment on the issues that hadnt been  specifically 
discussed in the report and also to give comment on the mileage error. The response was brief and 
didnt give further specifics on the issues not covered. In respect of the age and mileage discrepancy  
the engineer  said but it is also clear that this is a 12 years old vehicle  with 150,000 miles  on the 
clock and considerable wear & tear will be apparent  over that time/  distance.
FirstRand made no further comment on the report or its position on the complaint in general.
In the interim, as FirstRand had taken some time to respond to my request, Mr W had presented 
evidence for consequential losses hed suffered. Hed had to hire a car several times in order to 
take his caravan for servicing and also for family holidays that had been booked. I told FirstRand 
that I was likely to uphold the case unless  significant further evidence was presented and that the 
Ref: DRN48290715uphold would  include a refund of these car hire costs.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so Im intending to uphold  it and Ill explain why.
Mr W has brought his complaint against FirstRand as it provided the finance necessary for him to 
acquire the car from the dealership.  He is then offered  some protection  by consumer credit 
legislation. I wont set that legislation  out in detail here but essentially it means  Mr W can bring  a 
complaint about the quality of the car against FirstRand as the business  that provided the finance.
Broadly speaking, the legislation says that when goods  are provided  they must be of satisfactory  
quality. If its found that the goods were not so, and the finance provider is found to be liable for any 
faults with the goods, then the consumer may be entitled to a remedy in the form of a repair, 
rejection or replacement  of the goods.  And so Ive gone on to consider  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ws case with that test in mind.
I then have  to consider  whether the car Mr W obtained  was of satisfactory quality. That test has to be 
considered in the context  of the goods being  provided. For instance,  what  would be expected of a 
brand new car is different to that of a well-used second-hand  one. A reasonable person would expect  
a new car to be completely fault free. Whilst its to be reasonably expected that an older car will show 
signs of wear and tear and may have some faults.
There doesnt actually appear to be any dispute  that the problems highlighted across the reports 
are present.  Its only a question of when  they developed and whether they are in keeping  with 
the age and mileage of the car.
Mr Ws car had considerable use before he obtained it. It was around eleven years old and had 
covered 148,000 miles. And so its fair to expect there to be some wear and tear, perhaps even a 
significant degree. Its clear  there had been significant usage of the car before Mr W took 
possession of it. I think its fair to say that further investment in the car would be necessary to keep  
it running. But that doesnt  mean there isnt still a reasonable expectation for the quality of the car.
The amount of problems uncovered, after a fairly short period of usage, in terms of both time and 
distance travelled, are extensive. Im satisfied that the problems highlighted by the reports arent 
ones that would develop quickly; I believe they were present at the point of sale.  Thats borne out by 
some of the key issues highlighted  including corrosion of parts of the exhaust system. These dont 
seem to be issues that would develop  quickly.
It has been  pointed  out that some of these problems  werent highlighted in earlier reports. That 
may be the case. But, as Ive said, it seems unlikely theyve developed between the end of 
October 2017 and early March 2018.  And Mr W had always maintained  that hed have a further 
report carried out so he could be satisfied the problems  had been repaired.
I do have to consider the age and mileage of the car though. And I would  expect to find a number of 
wear and tear problems  present on a car thats had such extensive use. I think  a reasonable person 
would expect the same  and to also expect that further  problems would develop  much sooner than 
on a newer  car. I do believe that some  of the problems highlighted in the reports are in keeping with 
the age and mileage of the car. That includes problems with the exhaust system  and the 
suspension.
But I can also appreciate Mr Ws point  of view that the list of problems here is so significant that the 
car cant be considered  to be of satisfactory quality.
One of the issues highlighted  in the last inspection  Mr W had carried out, and confirmed in the 
recent inspection arranged by FirstRand, is the presence of a loud diesel knock.
Ref: DRN48290716Mr W has said the diesel knock wasnt present before  the repairs  were carried  out. It isnt included 
in the first two reports  either.  Mr W believes  it developed  as a result of the repairs.
I cant  say for sure whats caused the diesel  knock. Theres been no conclusion reached by the only 
engineer thats inspected the car since it developed, only that further inspection and repair would be 
required. I think  there are then two possibilities for how the knock has come about. It is either:
the same knocking that had been reported by Mr W before any repairs  had been  
carried out and which prompted him to take the car for an inspection;  or
the diesel knock has been caused as a result  of the repairs that were carried  out.
The final inspection  doesnt conclude the cause. It says further dismantling of the engine is required  
and only then can a cause and remedy be established.  But I think whichever of the two scenarios 
Ive described above are correct it means the car is still not of satisfactory quality after the repairs. 
Either the knock was present before the repairs and it hasnt been fixed. Or the repairs have 
caused further  problems to the car.
The later report also confirms that an electric actuator had been disconnected and that was 
possibly as a result  of earlier repairs. And so, along with the engine  knock, there appears to be a 
second fault confirmed  as being  present  after attempts  to repair  the car.
These problems, taken  alongside the earlier issues that had made the car un-roadworthy, persuade 
me that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when  sold. I think  its worth noting here that the initial 
inspection of the car which  highlighted the problem with the engine mounts led to the garage that 
had inspected  the car saying it wasnt safe to drive. And the dealership,  along  with FirstRand, 
appear to have accepted there  were  significant problems that they should take responsibility for. 
Thats borne out by the fact they carried out and paid for repairs.
There has been some  suggestion by the dealership  that the problems with the car have  only come  
about because the DPF wasnt fitted  when it was highlighted as a problem. But Ive not seen 
evidence to suggest that is the case; its not mentioned as a likely cause on any of the inspection 
reports and so Im not persuaded the delay in fitting the DPF caused all the problems  with the car.
I have considered the purchase price, alongside the age and mileage,  in making this finding. Mr W 
was due to pay a total of nearly £5,000 for this car. And, even with a car of this age and mileage, Id 
expect that to infer a reasonable level of quality in it. I dont think  that means  the issues experienced 
since purchase, and particularly the repair, can be ignored.
When a car is found to not be of satisfactory quality  and it has been in the consumers  
possession for more  than 30 days the business would normally be given  an opportunity to repair 
it.
The repairs carried out do appear  to have resolved some  of the problems  identified early on. In 
particular the significant  issue of the collapsed  engine  mounts was put right. This significant  issue by 
itself would  have led to my finding that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when  sold. As would the 
failure of the DPF after several weeks  of the car being in Mr Ws possession. But there are still many 
unresolved issues and theres evidence the repairs  have created a new problem: the diesel knock. 
Theres also the broken  actuator to consider, which is possibly the result of the earlier  repairs too.
Ive also considered here that any further repairs that would be necessary  are likely  to be 
disproportionate to the value of the car. And where  a repair has already been  attempted I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to say further repairs should  now take place.
Im persuaded  the goods still arent of satisfactory quality following repair  and Mr W should be able 
to hand the car back, with the finance agreement being ended.  Mr W should  then only have to pay 
for the period  of time he was actually  able to use the car which was up until January 2018.
Ref: DRN48290717Ive gone on to consider the additional costs incurred by Mr W in relation to the car. These include 
essentials such  as insurance and tax. Its fair for Mr W to have paid for both in the time he was using 
the car, but he should receive a proportional refund of the remaining nine months.
I know Mr W has also incurred hire car costs as, among other  things, hes had to take his caravan  
in for annual  servicing. But Im not awarding these costs as part of a refund. Thats because, 
instead, Mr W is getting back all the payments he would  have otherwise made to the agreement. 
He would always have  incurred  some cost for having a car at the time he hired one. And so it 
wouldnt be fair to say he should recover both the hire costs and the payments toward  the 
agreement.
Mr W should also be refunded  the cost of repairs hes paid for himself, namely  the fitting of the 
DPF.
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  this complaint with a direction  that FirstRand Bank Limited  should:
collect the car at no further cost to Mr W;
end the finance agreement and remove it from Mr Ws credit file;
refund payments made by Mr W from January 2018, when his usage of the car came to an 
end, plus interest at 8% from the date they were paid to the date of settlement;
refund the total deposit  (cash plus part-exchange value) of £995, plus interest at 8% from 
the date it was paid to the date of settlement.
refund the insurance costs for the nine months of the policy year where Mr W didnt have 
use of the car, totalling £140.32, plus interest at 8% from the date it was paid to the date of 
settlement.
refund the tax costs for the nine months of the year where Mr W didnt have use of the 
car, totalling £364, plus interest at 8% from the date it was paid to the date of 
settlement.
refund the £319.20  cost paid by Mr W for the DPF replacement plus 8% interest from the 
date it was paid to the date of settlement.
If FirstRand  Bank  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income 
tax from any interest award, it should  tell Mr W how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr W a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ill await  any further  comments from Mr W and FirstRand Bank Limited before I issue my final 
decision. Both parties should respond by 22 March 2019 with anything else theyd like me to 
consider.
Ref: DRN4829071