K822xcomplaint 
Mr H complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  mishandled his complaint about  a 
missed service appointment  for his boiler under his home emergency  insurance policy.
background 
Mr H had an annual home emergency  policy with British Gas. Under the terms of the policy 
Mr H was entitled to have  his boiler  serviced annually.
In January 2017 Mr H booked an appointment with British Gas for an engineer  to attend  
and service his boiler. Mr H received two texts from British Gas confirming the 
appointment, one on the day he booked it and the second three days  before the 
appointment. Mr H also rang British  Gas prior to the appointment to explain his boilers  
programmer clock was faulty so that the engineer  would be aware  of this issue when they 
attended.
On the day of the appointment  Mr H rang to enquire  what time the engineer  was attending 
and says he was told they would be with him shortly. However, no engineer arrived  at Mr 
Hs home that day.
The following  day Mr H sent two emails  to British  Gas complaining  that the engineer hadnt 
arrived and requested that a new service appointment be set for a specific date a week  
later. He received no reply. So a few days later Mr H rang British  Gas as his boiler had 
developed a fault and stopped working  meaning he had no hot water  or central heating.
British Gas apologised  and arranged for an engineer to attend the following day. It offered Mr 
H as a goodwill  gesture one months  premium via BACS,  rebooked  the engineer  and said it 
would log his complaint.
The engineer attended the following day and fixed Mr Hs boiler. Mr H made  a formal 
complaint to British  Gas via email. He says he didnt receive any response nor did he 
receive the repayment as offered by British Gas.
In October 2017 Mr H received a letter  from British Gas stating that it had closed his 
complaint. Mr H again complained to British  Gas. He asked for £300 compensation plus 
the waived one months payment for British Gas poor customer service, the mishandling  
of his complaint and for the engineer failing to attend  as booked. British Gas didnt 
respond.
Mr H complained to this service. Our investigator recommended that Mr Hs complaint 
should be upheld.  He said that British Gas should pay Mr H £150 compensation for 
the missed appointment and lack of response  to his call and emails.
Neither Mr H nor British Gas had agreed with our investigators view. Mr H said it was 36 
hours after he told British  Gas he didnt have any hot water or heating  that the engineer  
arrived which was also nine days after the service had been  due. He said that British Gas 
had breached its contract with him by not following its complaints handling procedure and 
its policy contractual obligations. He said the compensation  suggested by the investigator 
was insufficient  for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Ref: DRN42371302British Gas said the compensation suggested  was too high for the minimal  amount of 
frustration and inconvenience caused  to Mr H. It accepted an appointment had been 
missed but said that this had been  rescheduled the following day. Mr H had been  without a 
working boiler for a day.
As the parties  disagreed the complaint  was passed to me. I issued a provisional  decision 
along the following lines. Id seen a copy of the home emergency  insurances policy.  This 
policy allowed for the boiler to be serviced annually  though a service  didnt  include  any 
repairs or replacements. It said that if during a service the boiler isnt fit to be used, youll 
still have to pay for their visit. So repairing a fault was separate.
The policy also included  a section  headed  Complaints. It said that all complaints were 
taken seriously and that British Gas would do its best to resolve the issue right away and 
that if we need more  time to investigate we will let you know.
It was accepted that the engineer hadnt arrived to service Mr Hs boiler on the day that was 
booked. Id seen that Mr H called British Gas a couple of days before the service  to explain 
that he was having a problem  with the boilers  programmer clock  so I appreciated there 
was an issue with boiler though it was working at that time.
Id seen from the notes  made by British Gas that it was aware on the day that the engineer  
hadnt attended as Mr H called. British Gas had noted that it apologised to Mr H and 
offered to rebook  the appointment. The next note is dated a week later and which  said that 
due to the missed  appointment  and poor customer service a goodwill gesture of one 
months payment  (£22.50) would be made via BACS plus a two hour time slot booked for 
the service to be conducted.  It also says a complaint has been logged.  The engineer 
attended Mr Hs property  on this date and fixed the boiler.
British Gas accepted that Mr H spent around 24 hours without a working boiler. Mr H said 
it was nearer 36 hours. I didnt  think the length  of time was materially  different. It was an 
inconvenience for Mr H for a short time.
Mr Hs main complaint was about  how British Gas had handled his complaint. He said he 
hadnt received  the months payment as promised nor had he received any information  
about what was happening. The next letter  Mr H received from British Gas was in October 
2017 when it wrote to say his complaint had been  closed  and if he was unhappy he could  
bring a compliant to this service.
I could understand why Mr H had been  surprised to receive this letter  though I hadnt seen 
any evidence that hed made contact  with British Gas after his boiler was repaired so I 
wasnt sure whether hed thought his complaint was still active. British Gas appeared to 
have thought that it had adequately dealt with his complaint at the time hed raised  it. It said 
the letter was sent to correct its failure to send the letter in February  2017.
I appreciate that British  Gas hadnt kept to its complaint policy  though I didnt accept this 
was a breach  of the policys  terms and conditions. And having  accepted  that the business 
hadnt provided the quality of service  as would have been expected to Mr H, I had to 
consider the impact this has had on him when deciding whether compensation was 
payable.
Mr H had booked a service at a time that was convenient for him and taken time off to be 
at the property. It was frustrating for Mr H for the engineer not to then arrive and not to be 
Ref: DRN42371303told they couldnt come. It appeared Mr H hadnt  received  the compensation British Gas 
thought he should for that failure. Hed then had a short time without heating  and hot water 
and his email complaints  werent responded too. Hed then got a letter many months later 
telling him his complaint had been  closed. This wouldve added to his distress and 
inconvenience. However I didnt agree that compensation  of £300 is reasonable and I 
thought that a total of £150  was fair for the impact  these  events  have had on Mr H.
I intended to uphold Mr Hs complaint and ask British Gas to pay Mr H £150 as 
compensation.
Mr H hasnt asked me to look at any parts of my provisional decision again  
though he did enquire whether the one months  payment  was to still to be 
reimbursed in addition  to the £150 compensation. 
British Gas hasnt  raised anything  for me to consider on my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my view and for the reasons given above Im still upholding Mr Hs 
complaint. Im asking  British Gas to pay a total amount of £150 compensation to Mr H which 
means Im not asking  it to also reimburse  his one month payment under the agreement in 
addition to this amount.  
This is because when setting the amount of compensation I found  to be fair and reasonable I 
looked at the impact  that the whole situation  had on Mr H. And this included  British Gas not 
reimbursing the one month payment  when  it said that it would. So that repayment figure is 
part of the £150 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Mr Hs complaint.  Im asking British  Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr H £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him for the missed service appointment and the subsequent mishandling of his 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019. 
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4237130