K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that Specialised Training  Services Ltd (STSL) misrepresented  the terms of a 
fixed sum loan agreement for which it acted as credit broker. He wants a refund of the cost 
of insurance that he financed with the loan.
background
Mr I tells us he enrolled on a HGV drivers  course through STSL. He said he was told if he 
passed the course first time he would receive a refund of £500 safe  passage  insurance. He 
says he applied for the course leading to a Class 1 drivers licence, known as C+E category.  
But the finance application  for this was refused. Instead, he says he opted for a Class 2, 
Category C, course.  Mr I says he passed  all the tests first time - but STSL refused his 
application for a refund  of the insurance cost. He feels he was misled as he hadnt been  told 
the refund  did not apply to the course he took.
STSL told us that in order to qualify for the refund  Mr I would have had to purchase two 
courses (Category C and Category C + E) and pass first time on both licences. But he had 
not qualified for the necessary finance.  It said that Mr I had opted to purchase only the 
Category C course  - to which the refund  offer did not apply.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr I had 
originally applied for a Back to Back course  where  a refund of pass protection insurance 
was offered. But hed not been successful in arranging  credit for that course.  Instead  hed 
opted for a different  - category C - course and that had not come with the refund option. 
She said this had been explained to Mr I by the adviser. She didnt think  STSL had done 
anything wrong.
Mr I did not accept this outcome. He said hed not made a mistake and had been counting  
on the refund.  As its not been possible to resolve  the complaint an ombudsman has been 
sked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr I has suffered the disappointment of not receiving the refund he expected. But I 
congratulate him on passing the relevant  courses  first time. And I hope he will be able to 
enjoy the benefit of the hard work  and effort he put in to achieve  his success.
In trying to resolve complaints  we  listen to what the parties tell us and we look at 
documentary and other evidence to help us reach a decision. This is in keeping with our fair 
and reasonable remit. And where  evidence  is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some 
of it is here - Im required to make my decision  on the balance of probabilities.
Mr I is alleging the terms of the service  he paid for through the finance agreement  was 
misrepresented. And whilst I dont apply  the law - directly - I do take it into account. A 
misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a consumer to act upon  it.
Ref: DRN49317102Ive seen evidence  that the basic price of the training course was £3,397. This included pass  
protection insurance - which was priced at £799.  This covered - if required - two extra 
attempts to pass the practical driving test and two extra attempts at each theory test.
Unfortunately the recording  of the telephone call which  led to the agreement is not available.
The request  by this service - for the recording - was apparently made after it had already 
been deleted. But STSL said it had obtained the recording of the original call when it had first 
received Mr Is complaint.  And in its final response  letter it stated that in the call it had been 
explained to Mr I that the cash back  offer applied  only if you pass first time on both 
licences. Ive no reason  to doubt  this - but for reasons  Ill explain  later I dont think  I need 
rely simply  on this explanation to reach  my final decision.
Its not in dispute  that Mr I was informed that if he enrolled on the Back to Back  courses  
and passed the Category C and Category C + E licences first time he would receive  a refund 
of £799. In the event and due to the refusal of finance he was unable to access  the higher 
priced option and so chose only to enrol  for the Category C training.
I do not doubt Mr I genuinely thought the refund would be applicable to this option  also - but 
Ive not seen any evidence he was told this would be the case. I cant see any reference to a 
refund being offered in the welcome pack he received upon enrolling. Nor is there  any 
reference to any such arrangement within  the agreement.
I also note the welcome pack  includes details of the various modules of the course. And I 
can see there are separate sections with headings:
What happens  when I pass my Theory Modules?  and
What happens  when I pass the practical?
Although theres  an explanation of the necessary steps that need to be taken after these 
events - theres no mention of any refund being applied.
And, importantly, Ive also seen an email  from Mr I to our adjudicator, dated 6 February  
2019. In this he says:
its simple  really. they offered me C+E with safe passage  insurance for 500. if i pass with 
first it will be refunded. however i chose  to do only C and they did not say that i wont be 
refunded my 500 if i dont  take C+E.
I think that whats probably happened  is that Mr I has made an assumption  - without 
checking the issue - that the refund offer also applied to the course on which  he enrolled.
I sympathise with Mr I - and I can understand it would be easy  to assume the offer applied  to 
different services. But the evidence Ive seen only indicates he was told it applied to where 
Back to Back courses including both Category C and Category C+ E were purchased. And 
whilst it turned out not to be used - Mr I would have  potentially had the benefit of the 
insurance had he needed to retake any element of the tests.
In summary,  I dont think STSL has done  anything wrong and it would not be fair and 
reasonable to require  them to refund the insurance element of this service. And whilst I know 
it will come as a disappointment to Mr I, Im not upholding  this complaint.
Ref: DRN49317103my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4931710