K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Vanquis  Bank  Limited unfairly  declined a claim he brought under  
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. He wants compensation.
background
Mr K is represented in this complaint by his partner, Miss W, but for ease of reading Ill 
mostly refer to him.
Mr K tells us that in March 2018  he purchased the vehicle from a dealer Ill call F. He says 
he paid the purchase price, of just under £2,400, with a combination  of £300 from his 
Vanquis credit card and the balance by direct  transfer from his bank account. Mr K said hed 
already had two bald tyres replaced  before he took the vehicle for a pre- MOT  inspection  in 
May 2018. He states that this inspection revealed  further faults with the vehicle including  a 
loose steering rack; corroded brake pipes and seals; and pitted brakes and discs. He says 
that when he complained  to F it alleged the transaction was a trade sale and as such  it 
wasnt liable for the repairs. Mr K says hes never  been involved in the motor trade and feels  
this description was added as F knew the vehicle  wasnt fit for purpose  and in an attempt to 
deprive him of his rights.
Vanquis told us it had refused the claim as it hadnt  found any breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation by F. It said the inspection report had confirmed the faults were down to 
general wear and tear. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said she didnt think  
that F had breached the contract or misrepresented the sale.  She thought the vehicle  was of 
satisfactory quality having regard to its age, mileage and the price  paid - which  she felt was 
below market value.
Mr K didnt agree with this outcome. He disputed the transaction  was a trade sale and says 
hed since found  out that the bank transfer  had been  to a personal  account and not Fs 
business account. As its not been  possible  to resolve this complaint an ombudsman has 
been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr K has experienced the disappointment and inconvenience thats arisen  due 
to the problems with this vehicle. And I can understand his sense of frustration that over a 
year later things still havent been resolved.
Mr Ks complaint consists of two main elements. Theres an allegation  that the transaction  
was misrepresented as a trade sale and that the vehicle wasnt  of satisfactory quality when 
supplied.
I should explain that I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. And 
relevant legislation here includes  the Consumer Credit Act 1974  and the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015 (CRA).
Ref: DRN42823512As this complaint,  based  on section 75, is brought against Vanquis its important to note that 
Im looking  at whether  or not Vanquis  has treated Mr K fairly in its handling of this claim. Im 
not deciding the merits of any underlying claim he might have against F. Although in 
deciding if Vanquis  has treated  him fairly, Ill consider how its looked at this aspect.
Section 75 offers protection  to customers who use certain types of credit  to make
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75, and subject  to certain conditions, the 
consumer has an equal right to bring  a claim against the provider of the credit as well as the 
supplier of the goods or services.  To do this there must have been a misrepresentation or 
breach of contract on the suppliers part. I should add that only part of the purchase price 
needs to be paid by way of relevant credit.  So the fact that Mr K paid the balance by bank 
transfer and to other than Fs business  account doesnt affect the outcome of his complaint.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  leads a consumer into entering the 
contract. And there seem  to be two potential areas of misrepresentation in these 
circumstances. These  relate  to an advert  which described the vehicle as being well 
maintained and the transaction being described as a trade  sale on the sale invoice.
I dont think this was a trade sale as Ive no information to show  me that Mr K was acting as 
a trader in this transaction. Simply describing  a transaction  as a trade sale does not make it 
such. In these circumstances, theres  insufficient evidence to show  the transaction amounted 
to a trade  sale and I think Mr K retained  any rights  he acquired under the CRA. But I dont 
think this entry on the invoice amounted to a misrepresentation. Ill explain why.
Mr K made it clear  in a complaint to F that hed been  unaware the transaction  was being 
described as a trade sale. It seems F later justified the description by reference to there 
having been a part-exchange vehicle involved as part of the sale. This doesnt amount to a 
misrepresentation as Mr K wasnt aware  that the transaction had been described  as a trade 
sale until after the agreement had been signed. So it cant have affected his decision to 
purchase the vehicle.
As far as the description of the vehicle  as being  well maintained  is concerned,  I think this is 
too vague to amount to a clear statement of fact. Im also of the view that Mr K could have 
declined to enter into the agreement - or sought  further details - if he wasnt satisfied with the 
maintenance or service history with which hed been provided. He knew he was purchasing 
a 12 year old vehicle  with 82,000 miles covered and so it was to be expected there would  be 
some issues  with the vehicle. Theres also a MOT history which shows the vehicle was due 
for another  test in May 2018 and a previous advisory referred to a worn  front brake disc. 
Although it commented  that this hadnt seriously weakened it.
The CRA says that goods must  be of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. And 
satisfactory quality is defined as being  what a reasonable person  would  consider  to be 
satisfactory. This takes into account  such factors as age, previous use and price.  
Ive seen a report,  dated May 2018, which Mr K obtained from a local garage Ill call W.
This report state that the following items were found  to be defective:
Near-side top suspension ball joint excess play;
Leak at steering  rack;
Ref: DRN42823513Off-side front brake pipe excessively corroded;
Rear brake pipes excessively corroded;
Front to rear brake pipes  excessively corroded;
Corrosion and off-side and near-side inner sills and off-side and near-side outer  sills;
Brake discs scored and pitted;
Mr K accepts he knew at the time of the agreement that there were issues  with the pitted 
brakes and discs.
The report  when on:
The possible cause  of leak at the steering rack and suspension ball joint having  excess play 
is due to general wear  and tear on the vehicle.
The corrosion which is visible on the vehicle  would require outer plastic  sill panels being
removed to view full extent of corrosion prior to being tested.
Id describe the faults listed as being typical wear and tear issues  which  its not 
unreasonable to expect  would arise with a vehicle of this age and mileage.
A further  report from a garage Ill call G and which is dated 31 October 2018 found similar 
faults together with additional  welding to some  sills being required.  This report  suggested 
that these faults  should have been picked  up on a pre-sale inspection. But again Id describe 
the additional welding identified as being  typical of the sort of remedial work that a vehicle of 
this age might reasonably  require due to wear  and tear.
In summary,  I think Vanquis  considered the information with which it had been supplied and 
reached a reasonable view based on that. I think it was entitled to conclude that thered been 
no misrepresentation or breach of contract. As such I think it dealt with Mr Ks complaint in a 
fair manner.  I shant be asking it to do anything else.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr K but I again emphasise  that it 
concerns only the way Vanquis has handled his complaint. It doesnt prevent him from taking 
any action that he feels he might have against F.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4282351