K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that Coutts  & Company gave her incorrect advice about the savings 
accounts that were  available to her. She wants compensation for the interest  that shes 
missed out on as a result  this.
background
Ms S set up a 90 day notice account  with Coutts  in January 2011.
Coutts wrote  to account holders on 31 July 2013  explaining the 90 day notice account was 
being withdrawn.  They  enclosed a rates  sheet that set out the other  available options.
Coutts wrote  to account holders again on 28 June 2016 saying that they were making 
changes to their accounts.  They explained  that new 35 and 95 day notice accounts  had 
been introduced  and enclosed a rates sheet detailing the available options.
Ms S met with a Coutts private banker in October  2018 and was asked why she wasnt 
putting money in the short  term accounts available to her. Ms S subsequently opened up a 
95 day notice account.
Following this Ms S complained to Coutts that she shouldve  been informed about the 
available short term accounts sooner.  She said shed asked on several occasions whether 
there were any available and, with the exception of products linked to the stock market  which  
she wasnt interest in, she was told there wasnt. Ms S also explained that she never 
received any mailings about any offers on interest bearing accounts.
Coutts didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint. They said they could see theyd outlined  the available  
notice accounts  to her when her fixed term deposit account matured in 2015  and again  in 
June 2016.They did however accept that aspects of the service theyd provided wasnt 
satisfactory. They agreed that there had been  a lack of contact from the previous private 
banker and they could appreciate why the advice  they may have given to consider one of 
their low risk investment options might not have been considered  suitable  and so caused 
frustration. They arranged  for some flowers  to be sent in recognition  of this.
The complaint was brought to our service. Our investigator looked in to the matter but she 
was satisfied that Ms S was reasonably aware  of the available saving options. She explained 
that she couldnt be sure what the previous private  banker  had advised  and that the 
available call records show different account options, including  a 60 day notice account, 
were discussed with Ms S. She also added that there was no reason to think Ms S wouldnt 
have received the June 2016 letter that confirmed the introduction  of the new 35 and 95 day 
notice accounts.  But, even in the event it wasnt received, she didnt think  it would be fair to 
hold Coutts responsible for lost post.  She therefore  didnt ask Coutts  to do anything  further.
Ms S disagreed with the investigator and so the matter has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to same  
conclusions as the investigator and for largely  the same reasons.
Ref: DRN41706102Id like to firstly say that I appreciate why Ms S is unhappy  as she couldve earned  more 
interest over the years if her money was put in to the notice accounts. But what  I have to 
consider here is whether Coutts is responsible for that. And while  I realise this wont be the 
outcome Ms S is hoping for, for the reasons Ill explain, I dont think they are.
Ms S has said that she was told on several  occasions that there werent any short term 
savings accounts,  like the 90 day notice account shed previously had, available  to her. The 
90 day notice account was withdrawn in July 2013.  So its possible if Ms S had specifically 
asked about the availability of this type of account that she may have been  (correctly) told 
that it was no longer  available. Beyond this though I cant be sure whether Ms S was mis-
informed about  the savings accounts available to her. 
I have however seen  call records from December 2014 and June  2016  that show  savings 
options, including the 60 day notice account,  were discussed. In addition to this, Coutts  has 
provided a copy of the letter they sent in June 2016 to inform  account  holders of the new 35 
and 95 day notice accounts. And so because of this Im satisfied that Coutts  did inform Ms S 
of the savings options, similar to the 90 day notice account, that were available  to her.
I understand Ms S has questioned why she should lose out due to Coutts not having records  
of all of their calls. And that shes also said she doesnt remember receiving the June 2016  
letter that explained the introduction of the new saving accounts.
Ive carefully considered  these points but the call records  I have  seen show the notice 
accounts available were discussed  with Ms S. I also have no reason to think  the June 2016 
letter wasnt  sent to Ms S given that Coutts  has confirmed it was sent to all account holders. 
If there were postal issues that affected  this being received by Ms S then I dont think  it 
would be fair to hold Coutts responsible for that as this was something outside  of their 
control.
I sympathise with Ms Ss situation  as she says she chose to bank with Coutts as she wanted 
a personal banking service and she doesnt think shes received this. And while Ive noted 
her point as to why would she leave a sizeable amount of money not earning interest for 
several years, I dont  think that I can fairly conclude Coutts is responsible for that. From what  
Ive seen, I think they made Ms S aware of the savings options available  and so Im not 
going to ask Coutts to do anything further.
Im aware Coutts arranged for flowers  to be sent to Ms S for service  issues in respect  of lack 
of contact and any frustration caused by any advice they gave in respect  of investment 
options. I understand these havent  been  received by Ms S. I know  Ms S has previously said 
that she doesnt want the flowers but if she has since changed her mind,  she should  contact  
Coutts directly to ask them to be sent to her. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Daniel ODell
Ref: DRN41706103ombudsman
Ref: DRN4170610