K820x#14complaint
Mr R through his Attorney  complains  about  the interest rate applied  to his lifetime mortgage 
plan with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.  He would like Aviva to review the interest  rate in 
an equitable manner  and revise the rate it charged after base rates went down.
background
In February 2004  Mr R and the late Mrs R were buying an assisted living  apartment  for 
£282,500. Aviva loaned them through an equity release  scheme - called an Index-linked 
cash release plan - £115,825. Compound Interest was applied  to the loan. The rate of 
interest to be applied each year was the minimum interest rate under the agreement  (4.89%)  
together with the percentage increase in the Retail  Price  Index. There was a cap on the 
interest that could be charged.  
Mr R says that by February 2018, the amount secured by the lifetime mortgage  was 
£340,646.97. Mr R believes that since 2009 when base rates  fell, Aviva should have either 
reviewed the interest it charged or gave Mr R information about  other  equity release 
products that were  charging lower  rates  of interest.  Mr R is now 96 and may need long term 
residential care but will have little equity in his property to pay for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. His view was that 
this was a product for the lifetime of the borrowers  and because  of the early repayment 
charge, they were  unlikely to be able to switch mortgages. He also felt that Aviva had 
applied an interest  rate in line with the product  description. Mr Rs attorney disagreed saying 
in summary that when  Mr R took out the mortgage  that he was given a misleading illustration 
about the interest that would be applied to the mortgage; that Aviva  says its committed to 
reviewing its products but didnt review this one; that Mr R should have been able to take 
advantage of the general lowering of interest  rates; Aviva should  have  told Mr R earlier  that 
there were lower interest  rates available.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2004 Aviva offered and Mr R and the late Mrs R took out a lifetime mortgage  with Aviva. It 
allowed them to buy a property and they didnt have  to repay  the mortgage during their 
lifetime. But for that benefit, they would  pay interest which  like all such lifetime  mortgages 
would normally reduce their equity  in their property. Aviva didnt recommend the product to 
Mr and Mrs R but it did produce  an illustration of what interest would  be added to the 
mortgage over time depending on the rate of inflation.
Mr Rs representative says this illustration underestimates the actual  interest which would in 
fact accrue in these  different scenarios. In her email to us of 13 February 2018 she says that 
the illustration suggests that if inflation is at 2.5%  per year in 15 years  the mortgage would 
be about £320,000 when  in fact it is currently likely to be £370,000. Mr Rs attorney says 
inflation in the last 10 years averaged 1.67%  so the illustration substantially  underestimates  
the true position. Im not sure that Mr Rs attorney is right about that. By my own calculation 
using the measure of inflation relevant to this mortgage  the Retail Price Index  the 
average rate of increase  over the last 15 years was closer to 3% per annum which suggests 
Ref: DRN44050712that the illustration  is about right. So, I cant fairly  say that the illustration was misleading  and 
falsely induced Mr and Mrs R to take out this mortgage. 
The object of the illustration was to bring to Mr and Mrs Rs attention the problem that now is 
of concern to Mr Rs attorney namely that if they agreed the lifetime mortgage that it could 
seriously reduce  the equity in their property over time. Although  the interest wasnt  fixed it 
had a cap on the amount of interest. Aviva wasnt prevented from selling  this type of policy  
and Mr and Mrs R were  free to purchase  it. In retrospect the interest appears high but that 
might not have been the case in 2004. 
Mr Rs attorney asks me to amend the interest rate because interest rates  in general have 
gone down. But I dont believe that its fair for me to amend what  was agreed between  Mr 
and Mrs R and Aviva. If interest  rates had increased  substantially  rather  than decrease and if 
there was a sustained  inflation in house prices  which would work in Mr and Mrs Rs favour, I 
couldnt fairly adjust  the interest rate upwards to benefit Aviva. I have  to accept that Mr and 
Mrs R and Aviva agreed the terms of this lifetime mortgage 15 years ago on the basis  of 
things as they were  then and their views of what the future might hold. I cant  fairly amend 
the terms because  things didnt work out as one of the parties expected they would. 
I cant agree  with Mr Rs attorney that Aviva  should review Mr Rs mortgages requirements 
to see if it could offer alternative cheaper products.  This was a lifetime mortgage after all and 
any alternative product  would mean  breaking  the agreement and sparking an early  
repayment charge.  Aviva  gave no commitment to Mr and Mrs R that they would inform  them  
of other  equity release products. It did refer to reviewing its products presumably to see if the 
products were performing as intended.  In any case Mr and Mrs R used a broker  and 
presumably they could  have gone back to that broker to enquire  about alternatives. I can 
understand the attorneys  genuine concern for the financial position of her father.  But I cant  
fairly say that Aviva has done anything wrong  and I dont uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4405071