K821x#15Complaint
Mr F complains that he asked Tesco Personal Finance Plc to pay interest on his savings 
monthly but it has set up his new fixed rate savings  account to pay it annually. 
Mr F also complains  that he is unhappy with the reinvestment process. 
Background
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 28 February 2020  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought Mr Fs complaint should be upheld and 
what I intended to tell Tesco to do to put things right. I invited both parties  to send me any 
additional comments or information they wanted me to take into account before I make my 
final decision. 
Mr F responded to say he accepted  my provisional  decision. 
Tesco asked  me to reconsider my provisional decision. It says the options  it proposed  in the 
final response would have been suitable if theyd been taken up at the time. Tesco  says it 
was Mr Fs personal choice to refer his complaint to our service and delay the process.  
Tesco goes  on to say that the situation  wont impact Mr F for the whole two year period 
because it will make an interest  payment  on the first anniversary of the account. Tesco also 
says its mistake will actually benefit  Mr F in the long term as hes accruing a higher rate of 
interest on the basis his interest payments are being made annually instead  of monthly.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  the comments Tesco  
has made in response  to my provisional decision.  Having done  so, I havent been  persuaded 
to change my view of this complaint. 
Tesco says Mr F delayed  the resolution  of his complaint by referring the case to our service. 
As a result, it says the options set out in its final response are no longer viable.  Whilst Mr F 
has asked us to get involved, his decision to refer his complaint to our service  in line with the 
rules Tesco operates  under. I dont think Mr F should be penalised for requesting an 
impartial review of his concerns, in line with his rights. 
Tesco says Mr F will make more because hes receiving a higher interest rate on the basis 
that interest  is paid annually, not monthly. But the difference between the products Tesco 
offered at the time was 0.02%, or £14 on a balance of £70,000.  Whilst I accept Tesco is 
technically correct, I dont  think £28 across two years makes up for the mistakes  it made  or 
the fact Mr F hasnt been paid monthly  in line with his request. I understand Tescos point 
and have taken  it into account when considering how to proceed.  But it doesnt change my 
view of how to fairly  resolve  Mr Fs complaint.  
Ref: DRN49536572Tesco has pointed out that this product pays interest  on the first anniversary. As a result, 
Mr F wont be impacted for the full two year period. But the annual interest payment is made 
in arrears. That means, the interest  Mr F received will most likely have been used to cover  
any costs hes paid out over the first year - while Tesco should have been  paying monthly 
interest. So whilst I can see the product pays on the first anniversary, Im still satisfied 
Tescos mistake will continue to impact Mr F for the entire two year term.  
Ive considered everything Tesco  has said in response to my provisional decision but I 
havent been persuaded to change my mind. I still think Mr Fs complaint should  be upheld  
and Tesco should pay him £200.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Tesco  Personal Finance  Plc to pay 
Mr F £200 (less any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN49536573Copy of Provisional  Decision dated 28 February 2020
Complaint
Mr F complains that he asked Tesco Personal Finance  PLC to pay interest on his savings monthly  but 
it has set up his new fixed  rate savings account to pay it annually. 
Mr F also complains  that he is unhappy with the reinvestment process. 
Background
At the end of October 2018 Tesco wrote to Mr F to tell him his fixed  rate savings account  would  
mature on 3 December 2018.  In early November  2018 Mr F called  Tesco  to discuss his options and 
agreed to reinvest  his savings at a new rate. A two year fixed rate was selected to begin from the date 
of maturity of the existing  account. Unfortunately, Tesco made a mistake  when it set up Mr Fs new 
product and amended  the interest payment  frequency from monthly  to annually. 
After the new product was set up Mr F complained as he wasnt receiving monthly  interest  payments. 
Mr F also raised concerns that the interest rates available for savings customers  changed between 
his call in November 2018 and the reinvestment date. 
Tesco issued two responses to Mr Fs complaint.  Tesco said that it accepted Mr Fs reinvestment 
instructions to proceed in November 2018 and that it wasnt obliged to notify him if the products and 
interest rates  changed  afterwards. But Tesco agreed it had incorrectly amended Mr Fs interest 
payment frequency  from monthly  to annually  and transferred £100 to apologise. Tesco  said that it 
could arrange for Mr Fs funds  to be withdrawn  from the account  early if receiving  monthly  interest 
was a priority. 
Mr F referred  his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator.  She upheld  the 
complaint and said Tesco  should  manually  calculate interest due each month and pay it to Mr F. But 
Tesco didnt accept and explained that the account is entirely automated and its not possible to 
manually amend it. Tesco reiterated that Mr Fs account could be closed early if he wanted to reinvest  
elsewhere and receive interest monthly. As Tesco didnt accept the investigators view the complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr F has raised concerns about the way his reinvestment was handled and that he wasnt notified 
about product changes after his instructions were  provided in November  2018. I do understand Mr Fs 
point but Tesco doesnt provide advice  on this sort of product and acts on the instructions its 
customers provide.  Tesco says it doesnt tell customers who have given  reinvestment instructions  if 
products later change and thats an approach  its entitled to take. Mr F has told us he intends to take 
this matter up with the regulator and I leave it to him to decide how best to proceed.  Im satisfied 
Tesco followed Mr Fs reinvestment instructions.  
All parties agree  that Tesco  made  a mistake when  it set up the new two year fixed  rate savings 
account to pay interest annually instead of monthly. My role is to decide  how to fairly resolve this 
complaint. Tesco has offered Mr F £100 in recognition of its error and said Mr F can withdraw  from the 
bond early  and reinvest. But Im not persuaded thats the fairest way to deal with Mr Fs complaint. 
The investigator says Tesco should make manual  amendments and pay Mr F the interest he was 
expecting each  month. But Tesco  has highlighted significant systems issues that make this solution  
unworkable. I accept that Tescos systems are largely  automated  and that they arent  set up to make 
manual adjustments.  Whilst I appreciate  the investigator was seeking to put Mr F back into the 
Ref: DRN49536574position he would have been in, I need to balance that against the systems limitations Tesco has to 
deal with. 
Ive thought about the fairest way to resolve this complaint. I think its clear that receiving  monthly  
interest was important to Mr F. He is retired, has invested a significant sum and wants  to receive a 
monthly income from his savings.  Tesco says if Mr F wants  an account that pays monthly  he can 
withdraw his funds early and place them elsewhere.  Ive looked  at the rates  available generally at the 
moment, including those offered by Tesco.  Having  done so, it appears interest rates are generally 
lower than they were. So I can understand why 
Mr F hasnt taken that step. 
Its not now possible to amend Mr Fs fixed rate savings account so it pays  interest monthly. And I 
agree with Tesco that its impractical to tell it to manually calculate and pay interest to Mr F each 
month. So Im not telling  Tesco to take that approach.
That being said, I dont  think the £100 Tesco has paid reflects what happened. Mr F gave specific 
instructions so he could receive a regular income from his savings. I understand 
Mr Fs upset and disappointment  at Tescos mistake.  And, given the current rates available, the 
situation is likely to continue until the second anniversary of Mr Fs fixed rate savings account. So 
Tescos error will likely impact Mr F for around two years which is a reasonably long period of time. 
In addition, Mr F hasnt had the benefit of receiving a monthly income hed planned for. Its likely hes 
had to use funds from other sources instead  and Im satisfied  that will have caused a degree of 
trouble. Should  Mr F decide  to place his funds with an alternative  provider, there will be further 
inconvenience to him.
Taking everything Ive seen into account, I dont think £100 fairly reflects the impact of Tescos error 
on Mr F. I intend to increase the level of award from £100 to £200.  I think  that figure  more fairly  
reflects the long standing impact of Tescos  error on Mr F along with the trouble and upset caused. 
Tesco has confirmed  that Mr F can withdraw  his funds early so he has the option or reinvesting 
elsewhere - although I appreciate why he may not take that step. 
I understand Mr F accepted the investigators view and proposed settlement.  Im sorry  if hes 
disappointed by my decision. But I think Tescos claims  about  systems issues make the investigators  
proposed settlement unworkable. I cant tell a business  to do something thats simply  not possible.  
But, Ive taken  this into account when  deciding how to resolve Mr Fs complaint. I think a £200 award 
for the distress and inconvenience caused is the fairest  way to deal with this complaint.
My provisional decision
Unless I receive new information that changes my mind, my provisional decision is that I intend to 
uphold this complaint and direct  Tesco  Personal Finance PLC to pay Mr F £200 (less any 
compensation already  paid). 
Mr F and Tesco Personal  Finance have until 28 March 2020 to send me any additional comments or 
information theyd like me to consider before I make  my final decision. 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4953657