K821x#15complaint
Mrs M1 has brought  a complaint  to our service on behalf of her mother  Mrs M2, for whom  
she has power of attorney. She complains  that Santander UK Plc did not make her a joint 
signatory on her mothers account  when they were  asked  to. And she says her mother  is 
now in debt as a result. 
background
In 2014 Mrs M1 and her mother, Mrs M2, asked Santander to add Mrs M1 to Mrs M2s 
account as a joint signatory. Mrs M1 says they signed forms to that effect, and thought this 
action had been completed  by Santander.
In 2016 Mrs M2s health was declining. Mrs M1 went into a Santander  branch  to carry out an 
action in relation  to Mrs M2s bank account,  but was told that she did not have the authority 
to do so. She complained to Santander  in November 2016. She feels they spent a long time 
looking into the issue, before they said that they could  not find the paperwork  she and her 
mother had completed  to add her to the account.  Santander paid Mrs M1 £150 
compensation to apologise for this.
Mrs M1 says that she spent months trying to resolve  the issue  with Santander. Santander 
say they tried unsuccessfully to contact her a number of times during this period because 
they needed more information. But they then lost a second application that she made to be 
added to the account. And when she resubmitted it they told her that Mrs M2 would need to 
sign the application, despite  previously  saying this wouldnt be necessary. 
Mrs M2 wasnt able to do this, so Santander  said they werent able to add Mrs M1 to the 
account. In May 2017 they suggested  she should  apply to the court for an order to manage  
her mothers  finances. They offered to pay the £400  registration fee for this. And they paid 
£250 compensation for the further inconvenience caused to Mrs M1.  
In March 2018 Mrs M1 applied for power of attorney over her mothers affairs. She then went  
back to get this added to her mothers account. She completed the necessary  paperwork in 
branch. Santander  contacted her to tell her that a signature was missing, so she went  back 
to provide this. But then two weeks later when she contacted  Santander for an update they 
told her they had misplaced this paperwork. Mrs M1 complained  again.  
Santander apologised for the delay in registering her power of attorney for Mrs M2. They 
explained that her documentation had not been received due to a communication error, but 
that they had now located  it and raised  an urgent  request  to complete the registration. This 
was done on 16 July 2018.  They also paid Mrs M1 a further £100 compensation.
Mrs M1 says that Mrs M2 lost a lot of money in the meantime as she was unable  to access  
her account  to stop direct debits and standing  orders. Shes  also told us that she had to 
make purchases from her own account  on behalf  of Mrs M2. And shes explained that this 
has caused both her and Mrs M2 a great  deal of stress. Mrs M1 thinks Santander should  pay 
compensation for this. 
Ref: DRN47171902my provisional decision
I sent a copy of my provisional decision to both parties on 8 May 2019. A summary of my 
provisional findings is as follows; 
I explained that Mrs M1 had brought this complaint in her capacity as attorney for her 
mother Mrs M2, and that I was only able to consider what  compensation it would be 
fair for Santander  to pay Mrs M2. 
I said Santander had acknowledged theyd made mistakes and felt the £500  
compensation theyd  paid Mrs M1, and their offer to cover £400 costs  associated with 
registering a court order, was sufficient.  But Mrs M1 disagreed.
I noted that so far Mrs M1 hadnt  accepted Santanders offer to cover these 
registration costs.  I said I was aware that Mrs M1 had now been able to get a power  
of attorney registered for her mother, so the costs  may be lower than £400.  And that 
Santander had told us that if Mrs M1 does want to accept this offer they will need to 
see evidence of these  expenses from her first. 
I noted that Mrs M2 hadnt received any compensation  from Santander.  I said I felt 
shed been upset and inconvenienced  by these events too, as shed clearly 
anticipated Mrs M1 would be in a position to help her with her financial affairs from 
2014. I explained I felt Santander were partly responsible  for the delay in this 
arrangement being  put in place, so I thought  it would be fair for them  to also pay Mrs 
M2 £500 compensation.
I appreciated that Mrs M1 was looking for a larger award of compensation for Mrs M2 
because she felt shed  lost money  when Mrs M1 hadnt been able to cancel direct 
debts and standing  orders on her behalf. But whilst  I sympathised,  I didnt feel I was 
able to fairly ask Santander to reimburse  Mrs M2 for these payments as I couldnt 
conclude with any certainty Mrs M2 wasnt receiving a benefit from them.  For 
example a number  of the direct debits  were for insurance policies. And I also hadnt 
seen any evidence  Mrs M1 had approached the companies concerned  to see if she 
could obtain refunds  directly.
I also said it would be difficult for me to say to what extent the delay  in Mrs M1 being 
able to cancel  these payments was due to the actions of Santander.  Whilst  I could 
see Mrs M1 had done all she could to help her mother, and I appreciated this had 
been a very difficult  time for her, there  was a delay  between  the inability of Santander 
to add her as a joint signatory becoming apparent in May 2017,  and March  2018 
when she applied  for power  of attorney. And I didnt  think  it would be fair for me to 
say that Santander should take responsibility for this delay.  
responses to my provisional  decision  and my further findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Santander responded to my provisional decision and said that they accepted it. Mrs M1 
responded and said she felt she had no choice but to accept my provisional decision. But 
she felt that Id overlooked the fact her mother had accrued  a debt whilst she wasnt  able to 
access her account to make payments for residential care. She explained  the compensation 
shes been awarded by Santander previously has all gone towards paying this off.
Id like to assure Mrs M1 that I dont underestimate the difficulties  she and her mother  have 
faced over the last few years.  And Im sorry to hear her mother fell into debt,  I appreciate this 
must have  been  very distressing.
Ref: DRN47171903Ive explained  that I would  need some more information about the debt to be able to consider 
this point further. But Mrs M1 has let us know she has a debt repayment  plan in place now,  
and shes keen to draw a line under this complaint. 
As I havent  been  provided with any new evidence,  my final decision is the same as my 
provisional decision. I think it would be fair and reasonable  for Santander  to pay Mrs M2 
£500 compensation. And I would advise  Mrs M1 to contact Santander if shes changed her 
mind about  accepting their offer of registration  costs  or to let our adjudicator know.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc. To put things right 
I require them to pay £500 compensation to Mrs M2 for the poor service  provided and the 
subsequent upset and inconvenience their actions caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M1, on behalf  
of Mrs M2, to accept or reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4717190