K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy Legal & General Insurance Limited  (L&G)  has declined to offer renewal of 
his home  insurance  policy.
background
Mr S purchased a home insurance  policy with L&G in 2017. This was due to renew  in 
May 2018. 
But, in April 2018  L&G wrote to Mr S and said it wasnt able to renew  his insurance policy. It 
said that Mr S had made two claims in the first year of insuring  his home with it. And, this 
exceeded its current acceptance criteria. So, it said it wasnt  inviting renewal of his policy, 
and future  insurers Mr S took insurance with may need to know this information.
Mr S felt this was unfair.  He explained he had only made one claim within 16 years  of living 
at this home.  But, because of circumstances outside of his control  he had needed to make 
two claims in 2017/2018  the period he was insured  with L&G.
Our investigator looked into Mr S complaint, and didnt feel it should  be upheld.  She said 
she wasnt able to tell L&G who it should offer cover to. But, she had looked to see whether 
L&G had treated him fairly, and in line with other customers. And she thought  it had. 
Mr S didnt agree, and explained he felt L&Gs decision was unfair. He said he hadnt  known 
that L&G would decline to renew  his policy if he made two claims. And if he had known this 
at the time he was purchasing his initial policy he wouldnt  have taken out the policy.  Mr S 
felt making two claims wasnt excessive.
In addition, Mr S said he was concerned about the impact of L&G declining to renew  the 
policy  and that its refusal to do so would impact  his future insurance applications.
Because Mr S didnt  agree,  this complaint has been  referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ive explained why below. 
Both parties  agree that Mr S unfortunately needed to make two claims under his L&G policy.  
These were  as follows;
September 2017  Escape of water claim
January 2018   Theft claim
As a result of this, L&G said it wasnt able to offer insurance cover  to Mr S when his policy  
was due to renew.  Ive needed to consider whether this was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN43599932An insurer  is able to decide what risks it wants to cover.  So, it isnt for me to tell an insurer  
whether it should  accept  a particular risk or not. But, I need to ensure that L&G acted in line 
with its processes, and treated Mr S as it would have treated other customers in the same 
position as him.
L&G has provided evidence to show that given  Mr S claims history,  it wouldnt have  offered  
to renew his policy, or any other  customers policy in the same situation as him. Given  this, I 
do think L&G has treated  Mr S fairly in the decision  its made. So, Im satisfied L&G doesnt 
need to do anything more in respect of this complaint.
Mr S said that if he had known that L&G would decline to offer renewal to him if he had 
made two claims in one year he wouldnt have bought cover with L&G. But, he later noted  he 
probably would have still purchased the cover  anyway.  He had only made one claim in the 
previous 16 years, so he would have thought it unlikely he would need to make  a number of 
claims in one year. 
 
Either way, I wouldnt have expected an insurer to highlight to a consumer what risks they 
would or wouldnt  accept when it came  to renewal of an insurance  policy.  So, I dont think 
L&G did anything wrong here.
I appreciate Mr S concerns about  the impact L&Gs decline to renew  his policy  might  have. 
But, this doesnt  alter my decision  that L&G acted in line with their process, and did so 
reasonably. So, it doesnt change the outcome of his complaint.
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Legal & General Insurance Limited  to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4359993