K821x#15complaint
Mr C complained regarding the handling of his pension transfer by Fairstone Financial 
Management (City) Limited. He says that because of errors  it made,  the amount transferred 
was less than it should  have been. So, he feels he has lost out financially. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 28 October  2020.  A copy is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In the provisional decision I set out that I was intending to uphold the 
complaint.
Mr C responded to the provisional decision. In summary, he:
Set out the difference between his original CETV  and the value eventually 
transferred. And also set out the growth in his pension fund since.
Said he would like the compensation amount paid outside the pension wrapper as he 
had used up almost all of his lifetime allowance.
Said he would like compensation  for the fee he was charged for the new CETV  he 
had to obtain for the transfer that did take place.
Said he would like an assurance that the adviser he dealt with would not deal with 
other transfers.
Fairstone responded  to the provisional decision.  In summary it:
Said it wished to correct a statement  in the provisional decision about the issue of a 
final response letter. It said a final response letter in respect of the complaint was 
issued on 10 April 2018. It provided  a copy.
Asked for confirmation  as to how value A, as set out in the redress  calculation in the 
provisional decision, should be calculated.  
Said it would  be required to obtain information from Mr Cs pension provider to carry 
out the calculation and Mr Cs authority to do this would be required. The 30 day 
period set out in the provisional decision before interest starts  to accrue should start 
from when the pension provider provided a full history in respect  of the pension.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted the comment  about  the issue of a final response letter. What the provisional 
decision set out was that when Mr C referred  his complaint to this service he had not, at that 
time, been sent such a letter. So, I do not believe the provisional decision was incorrect. I do 
acknowledge that Fairstone did later issue a final response letter. 
The rest of the submissions that have been  made  by both parties  are about the redress  
calculation. 
In terms of value A in the redress calculation in the attached provisional decision, this is the 
actual value that Mr Cs pension would now be worth (as at the date of this final decision) if 
Ref: DRN41373222the higher value had been  transferred in July 2017, assuming exactly  the same  investment 
growth as has applied to the pension value since the transfer  was actually made.  So, in 
simple terms its the higher value that would  have been transferred plus growth on that sum 
at the same  rate as Mr C has achieved on his chosen investments since he transferred. 
As detailed  in the provisional decision if, as Mr C says, this would conflict with his pension 
allowances then the compensation should  be paid to him outside  the pension  but making the 
deduction as set out in the provisional  decision.
Mr C says he had to pay another  £210 fee to obtain  a new CETV after the first transfer 
failed. He wouldnt have  otherwise had to pay this fee so I agree that Fairstone should pay 
this amount to Mr C, in addition to the compensation set out in the attached provisional 
decision. That is subject  to him providing  proof of payment to Fairstone.
In terms of Mr Cs request with respect  to the adviser, the ombudsman service  is not the 
industry regulator and I do not make awards or directions  with respect  to the operation  of a 
business or its employees.  
In terms of the 30 day period for interest,  it is my view that this should  begin at the point 
when Mr C has both accepted this final decision,  and provided the necessary authority to 
Fairstone for it to obtain the information  required from his pension  provider.  Once those two 
actions have been taken, the period would start to run. It should not be delayed  until the 
pension provider has supplied  the necessary information.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and order  Fairstone  Financial Management (City)  Limited to calculate 
and pay redress as set out in the attached provisional decision and this final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 January 2021.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN41373223copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr C complained regarding the handling of his pension  transfer by Fairstone Financial Management 
(City) Limited. He says that because  of errors it made, the amount transferred was less than it should  
have been. So, he feels he has lost out financially.  
background 
Mr C had preserved defined benefits (final salary  pension benefits) with an occupational  pension 
scheme (OPS). The scheme had a protected retirement age of 50. Mr C contacted Fairstone as he 
wanted to transfer his pension  to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP).  The rules  of his scheme  
stated the only way for him to retain his protected retirement age was to carry  out a block transfer. 
Fidelity issued a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) which stated that to obtain this value he had 
to arrange the transfer within three months of 30 November 2016.  
Fairstone recommended he transfer the pension  to a SIPP. Although by the time the transfer was due 
to be completed, the three month deadline had passed,  Fidelity agreed to honour the CETV  and 
allowed Fairstone and Mr C more time to complete it.
However, in July 2017, Fidelity stated the transfer could  not be completed as the rules
relating to block transfers, set out by HMRC, were not followed. Fidelity stated that Mr C would now 
require a new CETV if he wanted to complete his transfer. When  Mr C received a new CETV, the 
value had fallen by around £80,000. He completed the transfer  using the services of another firm and 
later complained to Fairstone regarding  the fall in the transfer value  as he felt it was at fault for the 
reduction. Fairstone did not send Mr C a final response  letter to his complaint and so he referred his 
complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators  investigated the complaint and felt it should be upheld. He stated that when 
Mr C contacted Fairstone, it was clear that he wanted to complete a block  transfer  and all parties  
concerned were aware of this. The adjudicator stated that he did not think  the Fairstone adviser 
understood the rules  regarding block  transfers and especially  the requirements set by Fidelity  in the 
case of Mr C. As Fairstone informed Mr C that they had found a buddy to complete the block 
transfer, he assumed  the transfer would  be completed. However as the buddy Fairstone had found 
did not meet  the block transfer requirements, the transfer  was not completed.
The adjudicator felt Fairstone was responsible  for the transfer not completing  within the time allowed 
by Fidelity. Consequently, Mr C completed the transfer using another  firm at a later date.  However, at 
that point  the transfer value had fallen by around £80,000. The adjudicator felt Fairstone should pay 
this sum into Mr Cs pension and complete a redress calculation accordingly. Mr C accepted that and 
Fairstone agreed to calculate compensation. 
However, Fairstone  has so far failed to make this payment. As a result, Mr C requested the matter to 
be referred to an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
As discussed, Fairstone previously agreed to calculate and pay redress  to Mr C. And it agreed to do 
this in 2018. However  it has not done so. Given the passage of time it is now appropriate to issue a 
final decision  as to this complaint. 
 
Ref: DRN41373224Having reviewed  the complaint, I agree with the findings of the adjudicator. I will explain why.
After discussing the matter with Fairstone,  Mr C had agreed to transfer his OPS benefits  to a SIPP. 
He obtained a CETV  from his OPS. 
I can see that Fidelity supplied  a CETV to Mr C in respect of his OPS dated 9 December 2016. This 
set out that the CETV was about £1.3 million.  Fidelity said the value was guaranteed for three months 
from 30 November 2016  so until 30 February 2017. Mr C signed the discharge form which 
accompanied the letter,  to agree to the pension transfer, on 17 February 2017.   
This CETV included £142,000 of defined contribution benefits. So about £1,162,000 related to defined  
benefits. 
The Fairstone advisers recommendation report for Mr C did discuss the nature of the transfer to the 
SIPP and that to retain Mr Cs protected retirement age a block transfer  would be necessary. It was 
set out in the report:
HMRC defines a block  transfer as:
"A block transfer is a transfer in a single transaction of all the sums and assets held for the purposes 
of (or representing accrued rights under)  the arrangements under  the pension scheme  from which the 
transfer is made. It must relate to the member in question  and at least  one other member of that 
pension scheme. In addition before the transfer it is a requirement that either the member  was not a 
member of the pension scheme  to which the transfer is made, or they have been a member  of that 
pension scheme for no longer
than one year.
Essentially it means that we will be transferring your pension fund at the same time as other people 
from the same scheme, to the same scheme. This is purely for your information to let you know how 
the process works, you do not need to concern yourself with who these  people are as you will all still 
have your own individual pension schemes and will in no way be connected with one another. 
So, it was appreciated that a block transfer would be necessary to retain Mr Cs protected retirement 
age. 
I note the advisers  report is dated 27 February 2017 and Mr C signed  the report on this date. 
On 12 May 2017 the adviser emailed  Fidelity to request it proceed with the transfer of Mr Cs OPS 
and the transfer of the pension benefits of his buddy.  
On 30 May 2017 Fidelity replied to say it was awaiting a response from the scheme trustees 
regarding the proposed transfer.  
Fairstone asked for updates on 7 June and 27 June 2017, after which  Fidelity replied to say that the 
scheme trustees had confirmed that HMRC  Rules in respect  of block  transfers had not been followed 
 and therefore  the transfer could not proceed. 
In July 2017  Fidelity explained why the transfer could not proceed. It said:
I confirm that when (Mr C's) IFA requested a CETV  he did not make any reference to
buddy (Block) transfer. The original application to transfer was rejected as the procedure  to carry  out 
a block transfer was not followed as per HMRC Rules. These require  the transaction to be made 
under a single agreement for a single transfer between the two schemes. The initial  transfers were 
requested separately, with no mention of a buddy transfer being progressed.   
Fidelity has subsequently been asked to confirm why the block transfer  could not proceed.  It has 
said that this was because when the transfer was requested  there was no mention  of a block transfer 
Ref: DRN41373225and no mention of it until all forms  accepting the transfer had been received. As HMRC rules  required  
that the required  transfers be made under  a single  agreement for a single  transfer then the transfer 
could not proceed on the basis that would  have  allowed Mr C to retain  his protected retirement  age. 
Although it agreed to honour the CETV if the individual transfer  proceeded, this would have meant Mr 
C lost the protected retirement age.  My understanding is that Mr C had a protected retirement age of 
50  which is clearly a significant benefit that he would wish to maintain.
Mr C then approached a different business to arrange the block transfer and found a buddy with 
which to complete the transfer in late 2017. The transfer completed in early  2018 albeit with a reduced 
CETV (as a new CETV had to be obtained).  
The evidence  is that Fairstone did not facilitate the transfer or administer the block transfer  correctly  
so that Mr C could transfer the CETV which  was supplied  on 9 December 2016 whist  maintaining his 
protected retirement age (the material  reason for arranging the block transfer). What this meant was 
that by the time its error had been identified Mr C had to obtain an updated CETV  so his transfer 
could be made on the correct basis. I believe that Mr C then reasonably mitigated his position  by 
seeking out another business to arrange the transfer correctly.  
Consequently I believe the complaint  should be upheld. 
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr C in the position he would  be in but for the actions of Fairstone.  If Fairstone had 
not made the error discussed then it is fair to assume that the transfer would have  completed in July 
2017, with the CETV supplied on 9 December 2016 applying. 
So, I believe  fair compensation should be based  on the transfer completing  in July 2017  (the date 
Fidelity confirmed  the transfer  could not proceed) with the CETV value supplied  on 9 December 2016.
I therefore  intend  to order that Fairstone  pays the following redress of C, where:
A: The value of Mr Cs SIPP to which the transfer was made  as at the date of my final decision,  had 
the CETV supplied on 9 December 2016 been paid to it on the date in July 2017 when  Fidelity 
confirmed the transfer couldnt proceed. 
B: The value of the SIPP  of Mr Cs SIPP to which  the transfer was made as at the date of my final 
decision. 
C: A  B 
Fairstone can allow for any withdrawal, income  or other distribution out of the SIPP in its calculations 
 in effect the calculation should be performed  on a like for like basis as if any withdrawals or 
changes had been identically made under scenario A or B. 
If there  is a loss, Fairstone  should pay it into Mr C's pension plan, to increase its value
by the amount of the compensation. Its payment  should allow for the effect of charges  and any 
available tax relief. Fairstone shouldnt  pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict 
with any existing protection  or allowance.
If It is unable  to pay the compensation into Mr C's pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to 
him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income.  Therefore 
the compensation should  be reduced  to notionally allow  for any income  tax that would otherwise have 
been paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr C's actual or expected marginal  rate of tax at 
his selected retirement age.
Ref: DRN41373226Typically, 25% of the loss could have  been  taken  as tax-free  cash and 75% would  have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  this.
I also believe Fairstones errors  have  caused  Mr C significant  upset and inconvenience in that he 
obtained a significantly  lower  CETV and had to undertake  further remedial actions to enable the 
transfer to be completed.  I intend  to award  him £500 in this respect.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 30 days, that it takes 
Fairstone to pay Mr C this compensation.
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial
business of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs/interest on costs that I consider
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £150,000 limit, I may recommend
that the business  pays  the balance.
Provisional Decision and award: I consider that fair compensation should be calculated as
set out above. My provisional  decision  is that Fairstone should  pay Mr C the amount
produced by that calculation - up to a maximum  of £150,000.
Provisional Recommendation:  If the amount produced  by the calculation of fair
compensation exceeds 150,000, I recommend that Fairstone pays Mr C the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Fairstone doesnt have to do
what I recommend.  Its unlikely that Mr C can accept my decision  and go to court  to
ask for the balance.  Mr C may want to get independent legal advice before deciding
whether to accepting my final decision  should my decision remain the same as the
provisional decision.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold the complaint  and make the award detailed  above.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4137322