K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about Allianz Insurance Plcs decision to void his retail business 
insurance policy.
background
Mr S owned  a small retail  business. In 2018,  through a broker,  he took out an insurance  
policy with Allianz  to protect  the business.
Later in 2018,  Mr S suffered  a burglary at his premises. He made a claim under his policy.  
However, in the course of assessing the claim, Allianz discovered that Mr S had been  the 
subject of three county  court judgements (CCJs) dating back to 2013. It said that he should 
have declared  these CCJs at the time he took out the policy and that, if he had done so, it 
wouldnt have offered him cover.  On this basis, it said it was voiding his policy and returning 
his premiums.
Mr S appealed against Allianzs decision. He explained he hadnt known about the CCJs 
because they had been sent to an old address. Allianz wouldnt change  its position. Mr S 
therefore referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She noted Mr Ss 
explanation for why he hadnt known about  the CCJs.  However, she considered  that the 
onus had been on Mr S to keep his creditors up to date with his address details. She was 
satisfied that Allianz had acted fairly.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings. He pointed  out through  his representative that 
although this was a commercial insurance  policy, he was an unsophisticated  individual  and 
therefore his case should be assessed under  the principles laid down in the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  rather  than the Insurance 
Act 2015.  Under  CIDRA,  the test which would apply  to Mr S was whether he had acted 
carelessly in making  his misrepresentation. He argued that he hadnt acted carelessly 
because he hadnt  known of the CCJs and the only way he could have discovered them was 
through carrying out a personal  credit  check before applying  for the policy.  He considered it 
was unreasonable of Allianz to have  expected  him to have done  this.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
It is not in dispute  that when the policy was taken out, Mr S stated, through  his broker,  that 
he had not been the subject of any CCJs. It is also not disputed  that this statement was 
incorrect. Mr S had been the subject of three separate CCJs in 2013, 2014  and 2015  for the 
amounts of £529,  £1,285  and £569  respectively.
Mr S has explained that the CCJs were registered against his former address where his 
mother, father and brother  still live but from whom he is now largely estranged. For this 
reason, he hadnt  known  about the CCJs  until he was informed of them by Allianz. He says 
Ref: DRN46652822he could easily have  settled the disputes  if hed known about  them  but the parties  hadnt  
attempted to contact  him at either  his new home or business address. His argument is that 
because he had provided Allianz with information  to the best of his knowledge, he could not 
be said to have acted  carelessly.
I agree  that Mr S is not a sophisticated individual in respect of insurance  matters. He is 
correct that in such cases, we normally assess his actions against  the principles laid down in 
CIDRA rather than in the Insurance Act 2015  and that the relevant test is therefore  whether 
Mr S acted carelessly in saying he had not been the subject of any CCJs. However,  Mr S 
has provided no evidence  to show the CCJs were  issued  wrongly  or were  related to disputes 
of which  he would reasonably have had no knowledge. In the absence  of such  evidence,  it 
seems unlikely to me that Mr S was completely  unaware that there  were  three  different  
parties each alleging that he owed  them a sum of over £500. And on the assumption he was 
aware, I consider  it was his responsibility to inform these parties that he had changed 
address, rather than rely on them to track  him down. In these circumstances,  I consider  it 
was careless for him to have assumed  the parties had simply waived any sums  owed and to 
have assured Allianz that he had not been the subject of any CCJs without first checking this 
was the case.
Allianz has provided satisfactory evidence to show that if it had known of the CCJs, it 
wouldnt have offered cover to Mr S. Under both CIDRA and the Insurance  Act 2012, Allianz  
is entitled in such  a situation to void the policy, refuse the claim and return the premiums.  
This is what  Allianz did. Im therefore satisfied that Allianz acted fairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 September  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4665282