K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  didnt  stop sending  him 
marketing material even  though hed asked  it not to.
background 
Mr F kept asking Halifax to stop sending him marketing emails.  He phoned the bank but the 
person he spoke to was very rude to him. He tried to log a complaint online but the website 
crashed so he had to enter the details of his complaint  several times.
Halifax couldnt find any record  that hed tried to opt out of receiving marketing material  but it 
accepted Mr F had done so. It paid him £25 for the inconvenience itd caused him.
The adjudicator looked at Mr Fs complaint  overall and didnt think £25 compensation was 
sufficient. So he recommended that Halifax should pay Mr F an additional  £75.
Halifax wasnt happy about this. It said itd logged  a new complaint about the poor service 
from one of its employees and it paid Mr F £75 as compensation. So it thought it had done 
enough to put matters  right for him. As that was in line with his recommendation the 
adjudicator told Mr F that he didnt  think Halifax needed  to do anything  more.
Mr F wasnt happy with this. He said the compensation  wasnt sufficient for all the 
inconvenience Halifax had put him to. He hadnt  had an apology for the way a member of 
staff spoke to him. And he hadnt  had a response  about the problems he had trying to log his 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr F will be disappointed with my decision  but Ive come to the same  conclusion as 
the adjudicator  for very similar reasons. 
Mr F tried to stop Halifax  sending him marketing material with little success. His experience 
in dealing with Halifax was made  worse  by the way it handling  his phone call. So Ive looked  
at the overall impact  this wouldve had on him. I can see this situation wouldve been 
annoying and inconvenient and the phone call wouldve caused him some upset. But I think 
£100 is an appropriate level of compensation for Halifax to put matters  right.  Mr F says he 
hasnt had an apology  but when Halifax wrote  to Mr F in December it said it was arranging  to 
pay him £75 as an apology for the service  itd given him. So I dont think it needs to do more. 
Mr F complains about the difficulty he had with logging his complaint. I can understand how 
frustrating that was for him. But I cant look at Halifaxs complaint handling process  because  
its not, under our rules, whats called a regulated activity. If Mr F wants  to take his concerns 
about Halifaxs procedures further he will need  to refer those concerns to the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  
Before Mr F came  to this Service Halifax paid him £25 compensation. Since this Services  
involvement its paid him a further  £75. I think thats  fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN41017442my final decision
My decision  is that to put matters right Bank of Scotland plc should  pay Mr F a total of £100 
which it now appears to have done.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4101744