K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Provident Personal  Credit  Limited  (Provident) lent to him irresponsibly. He says 
that he advised it that he was in debt and that he couldnt afford  the loan repayments. 
background
This complaint is about one instalment loan Provident provided to Mr M in August 2011. 
Mr M borrowed £300 and it was due to be repaid over 31 weeks  with a repayment of £15 a 
week. Mr M hasnt  been able to fully repay  this loan.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term and high cost credit  - including all of the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Provident should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint and Ive explained why below.
Mr M needed to repay around £15 a week for just over six months. Given  this is a relatively 
modest amount,  and that this was the first loan he took from Provident, I think less thorough 
checks would be reasonable. 
Ref: DRN46727892Because of the time that has passed Provident  has been unable  to supply all of the 
information it took when it approved the loan, and I dont consider this to be unreasonable.  I 
understand it wouldve asked Mr M about  his income and regular  expenditure at the time. Mr 
M says Provident just asked if he wanted  the loan. Ive thought about what Mr M has told us, 
but I think it is more likely than not that Provident  did carry out some sort of affordability  
assessment before approving this loan. 
Ive taken what both sides have said into consideration but I havent seen any information  
that shows its likely Provident  was made  aware  of any financial problems Mr M mightve  
been having. Or anything  that wouldve prompted it to investigate  his circumstances further. 
So I think it was reasonable for Provident to rely on the information it wouldve obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, Im persuaded that it is more likely that the assessment 
Provident did before approving this loan was reasonable. And so I think its decision to lend 
was also likely to be reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4672789