K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the advice they received from Lifesearch  Partners  
Limited in respect  of their term, critical illness and income protection insurance cover.
background
Mr and Mrs C had existing insurance cover that had been arranged  by Lifesearch. 
According to the documentation Ive seen  and the information Ive been provided, this was:
Life and critical illness Income Protection
Mr C Sum insured = £105,000 Sum insured = £729 per month, with a three 
month waiting period
Mrs C Sum insured = £105,000 Sum insured  = £625 per month,  with a one 
month waiting period
The life and critical  illness insurance  had a guaranteed insurability option (GIO),  which  
allowed Mr and Mrs C to increase the cover  by 50% without any further health questions  
being asked.
In May 2016  Mrs C phoned Lifesearch  as she needed to update the insurances due to 
moving to a new house. Mrs C was asked what the old mortgage was and she said it was 
around £101,000. She was then asked  whats the new property? and she said £173,500 
and that theyve just taken  the new mortgage  out for 30 years.
The conversation moved  on to Mr and Mrs Cs employment and Mrs C said her salary had 
increased to £27,900 and Mr C's salary had increased to £17,600. She said they probably 
needed £1,000 cover each per month as a minimum (for income protection), depending  on 
the cost. She also said her sick pay was for 26 weeks and Mr Cs was for three months.
Following the call Lifesearch sent Mr and Mrs C a quote (for £63.90 per month). It said it had 
chosen to change the insurer,  with the insurance  on the following basis:
Level term 
assuranceCritical illness Income Protection
Mr C Sum insured = 
£173,500, for 30 yearsSum insured = £18,000 
(being a years salary)Sum insured = £800 per month, 
payable for a maximum  of 24 
months to age 65
Mrs C Sum insured = 
£173,500, for 30 yearsSum insured = £28,000 
(being a years salary)Sum insured = £1,000 per month, 
with a one month waiting period 
and payable  for a maximum of 24 
months to age 65
In June Lifesearch confirmed to Mrs C that the new insurer had accepted  her application but 
had rejected Mr Cs due to his medical history. It said if Mrs C went with the new insurer she 
could remove herself from the original  policies and Mr C could keep his existing cover  (with 
the lower sums insured)  with the original  insurer. The total cost would be £63.67  a month  
(£32.74 for Mrs Cs new policies and £30.93 for Mr Cs existing policies). Mr and Mrs C went 
with this option.
I understand that in December Lifesearch discussed  the GIO option with the original  insurer, 
but it couldnt be utilised as it had to be done within three months of the new mortgage.
Ref: DRN45052772Mr and Mrs C complained  to Lifesearch  in 2018 because they felt the advice they received 
was unsuitable.  They said they could have increased the original policy  to £157,500  using 
the GIO option (which  would have been  enough to cover their new mortgage) but Lifesearch 
didnt look into this until it was too late. They also said Mrs C has lost £77,000 of critical 
illness cover  and income protection cover  that would have been payable over the full term of 
the policy rather than just two years.
Lifesearch felt it acted fairly in not advising Mr and Mrs C to increase their existing policy  as 
it wouldn't have  covered the full mortgage value   which Mrs C had said was £173,500. It 
also felt it took reasonable steps  to make Mr and Mrs C aware that critical illness  cover was 
for a smaller amount,  which was cost effective and in line their request at the time. 
Lifesearch accepted  it incorrectly  set up the waiting period for Mrs Cs new income 
protection policy, and it apologised and offered  to refund the additional premium Mr and 
Mrs C had paid (plus  interest). It also said it would arrange  once Mr and Mrs C had 
consented  for the cover  to change going  forward. Lifesearch also offered to pay Mr and 
Mrs C £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Our investigator concluded that the complaint  should be upheld in part. In summary, he felt 
the advice given in respect  of Mrs Cs policies was suitable, but the advice given  in respect  
of Mr Cs policies was unsuitable  he felt Lifesearch  should have explored the option for 
Mr C to increase his cover under the GIO.
Both Lifesearch and Mr and Mrs C accepted our investigators conclusion.  But matters didnt 
progress from there  and Mr and Mrs C eventually said theyd  like an ombudsman  to review 
their complaint. Amongst  other things, they said:
as Lifesearch are brokers and expert advisers  they assumed  they would be advised on 
which policy would be best for them
the advice  in respect of Mr C's policy was to keep things as they were as he wouldn't be 
able to get any additional cover (which meant that income protection top up and 
additional cover  was overlooked); they have since discovered that this could have been 
sourced at the time
GIO wasnt exercised at the time which meant that Mr C didnt get cover on the new 
mortgage amount  and makes it difficult to now retrospectively get an accurate  policy  
quote or be put back into the very same position
Antithrombin 3 was mentioned on Mr C's medical documentation but this is not a 
diagnosis hed had
Mrs Cs income  protection insurance was changed to a new insurer for no reason other  
than it was cheaper  this means any claim payments  are now limited  to two years  
(when theyd previously been  for the full term of the mortgage); the waiting period was 
also incorrectly set up
the sum insured on Mrs C's policy was set at £173,500 based on the property value  but 
had a proper fact-find  been carried out it should  have  become clear that this figure 
wasnt the mortgage value
they are unsure how accurate  the settlement figures quoted by Lifesearch were  in 
respect of the premium Mr C would  have paid had the GIO option been  explored.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision which set out why I was minded to partially uphold this 
complaint. Ive repeated the relevant parts of my final decision below, and they form part of 
my final decision.
Ref: DRN45052773Mr Cs policies
The two potential options available to Mr C were to stay insured where he was or to 
move to another insurer. But as the new insurer declined to insure him because of his 
medical history, I thought it was most  likely that other insurers  would  have declined  to 
insure him too. So that effectively left Mr C with the one option to stay where  he was.
I felt Lifesearch ought to have been  aware of Mr Cs current  policies  and the options 
available to him  including the GIO on the life and critical illness insurance. So once it 
knew in June 2016 that the new application had been declined, I thought as part of the 
overall sale and advice it should  have  explored  the GIO option with the existing insurer.
I couldnt be sure what would have happened  had that option  been explored as there 
was information  on our file from the existing insurer suggesting that some questions 
about Mr Cs medical  history would have  been asked. However, the nature of those 
questions suggested to me that they would have led to the insurer  allowing Mr C to 
increase the policy.  And I thought Mr C would  most  likely  have  increased  the existing 
cover to £157,500  (ie a 50% increase on the original sum insured) as Mr and Mrs Cs 
new mortgage was £157,145. I thought that was supported by the fact Mrs C did in fact 
increase her cover. So by not exploring this option  until it was too late, Lifesearch denied  
Mr C this opportunity.
I didnt think there  was any issue with Mr Cs income protection  insurance. Much like the 
life and critical illness cover, it seemed his only option was to stay with the current  
insurer. And although Mr and Mrs C wanted  cover  for £1,000 a month, it looked like this 
wasnt possible for Mr C due to his salary.
Mrs Cs policies
The issue with the life (term assurance)  cover was that the sum insured was £173,500  
whereas the outstanding mortgage was £157,145. I thought  that when Mrs C first called 
to discuss updating the policies the question she was asked about the new property 
could have been a little clearer eg something like whats  the mortgage  on the new 
property?. But I thought from the flow of the conversation it was reasonably clear what 
Lifesearchs advisor was referring to. So given the information it was provided with I 
thought it was reasonable for Lifesearch  to work  on the basis  that Mrs C needed cover 
for £173,500 as that was the mortgage amount. It was also the case  that Lifesearch 
made it clear to Mr and Mrs C that the new insurance was being arranged  with a sum 
insured of £173,500.
The main issue with the critical illness cover was that Mrs Cs sum insured was now 
£28,000 when  it was previously £105,000. Lifesearch said it recommended the lower 
cover as it made the policy  more cost effective. It also said Mrs C agreed to the change. 
I hadnt seen anything which suggested that Mrs C specifically requested lower critical 
illness cover. However, cost was a concern for Mr and Mrs C  as Mrs C mentioned  it in 
respect of the income protection insurance  so I thought that was an important 
consideration for Lifesearch to take into account.
Consumers often,  but not always  (usually  due to cost), take out critical illness insurance 
to cover the outstanding balance on their mortgage. There  was a significant  difference  in 
this case in the cost of the potential options. As a comparison:
Ref: DRN45052774 the combined cost of Mrs Cs three new policies was £32.74  a month  with the 
total cost for all policies  for Mr and Mrs C being £63.67 a month; and
 the quote from the existing insurer just to increase Mr and Mrs Cs life and critical 
illness policies to £173,500 was £121.07 a month (although I didnt have a 
breakdown of how much Mrs Cs critical illness cover would have been; nor did I 
know what critical illness cover would have  been with a sum insured of £28,000).
There was an argument   although it could  have cost significantly more and there was 
no guarantee Mr and Mrs C would have chosen  to pay the extra premium  that Mr and 
Mrs C should have  been advised  to keep the sum insured at £173,500. However, I didnt 
think the advice  to have a sum insured based  on one years salary was necessarily 
unsuitable  particularly given the cost concerns. And as with the life cover,  Lifesearch 
made it clear to Mr and Mrs C that the new insurance was being arranged  with a sum 
insured of £28,500.
The main issue with the income protection insurance concerned the one month waiting 
period and the benefit being limited to 24 monthly payments. For the waiting period I was 
satisfied that Lifesearch had already  recognised and satisfactorily rectified the issue by 
offering to refund the additional premium paid.
But the limitation of the benefit  payable was a little trickier. I hadnt seen the terms of the 
original policy so it wasnt totally  clear  what would  have been  payable  although some  
policies pay benefit until the end of the cover so I had no reason to doubt  what  Mr and 
Mrs C had said in this respect. Also, Mrs C hadnt had the need to make a claim under 
the policy so the limitation in the benefit  hadnt  led to any loss being  suffered. She might 
need to make a claim in the future and she might need benefit paying  under that claim 
for more  than 24 months. However,  I had to decide the case  as things stood  I couldnt 
decide it based on something  that might never happen.
Most  income protection policyholders never need to make  a claim on their policy   
otherwise the policies  wouldnt be profitable  for insurers and they wouldnt therefore offer 
the cover. So on that basis, I thought on balance it was most  likely that the limitation in 
benefit wouldnt lead to Mrs C suffering  a loss in the future. So I didnt  think  there were 
grounds to make  Lifesearch do anything to put things right.
putting things  right
The part of the complaint I proposed upholding was in respect  of Mr Cs life and critical  
illness cover. It wasnt possible to put Mr C back into the exact same position he would 
have been in had Lifesearch  explored the GIO.  So my aim was to put him as close  as 
possible to that position.
I thought the best way of doing that was for Lifesearch to source a policy on the open 
market in order to provide  Mr C with the extra cover he would most likely have had (in 
respect of the sum insured and the length of time the policy would be in force  for) if it had 
explored the GIO. However, as I understood Mr and Mrs C had a repayment mortgage 
the outstanding balance  now might  be less than it was in 2016  which in turn meant  that 
Mr C might not now need cover for £157,500. So as an alternative option  if Mr and Mrs 
C wished  Lifesearch could source a policy so that Mr Cs total cover  was less than 
£157,500.
Ref: DRN45052775The premium with the existing insurer would have increased if Mr C had increased the 
sum insured  and the length of cover using the GIO. The cost of a newly sourced policy  
wont be established until an application  is made  and the policy comes into force; so it 
wasnt possible for me to know  whether the new policy would cost more than what Mr C 
would have paid using the GIO. But if it did, I thought Lifesearch should  cover any extra 
cost ie the difference between the cost of the newly sourced policy and the cost to 
Mr and Mrs C if the GIO had been exercised (this cost might need to be estimated).
Lifesearch had indicated that it would pay any difference in premium over the whole 
period of insurance up front to Mr and Mrs C. I thought that went beyond what was 
needed in order  to fairly resolve the matter as it raised the possibility that Mr and Mrs C 
might gain eg if they only had the new policy for another two years they would receive  
the difference in premium for the whole  policy  term but only actually pay an increased  
premium for two years. I therefore  thought  Lifesearch only needed to pay any difference  
in premium on a yearly basis, at the start of each policy  year, for that upcoming 
insurance year (although that didnt prevent Lifesearch from maintaining its offer if it 
wished to go beyond  what I thought  it needed to do).
compensation
To my knowledge, Mr and Mrs C hadnt suffered a financial loss in the sense that there  
hadnt been a claim  which led to them receiving  less in settlement  than they might 
otherwise have received. And theyd  actually gained slightly  because  they hadnt been 
paying the premiums  since 2016 for the extra cover Mr C would  have had under the 
existing policy. Lifesearch had also offered to reimburse Mr and Mrs C for the extra 
premium they paid on Mrs Cs income protection policy  up to 2018 because of the 
incorrect waiting period. So I didnt think there were  any grounds for me to make 
Lifesearch pay Mr and Mrs C compensation for any losses theyve suffered.
However, I thought  Lifesearchs actions caused  Mr and Mrs C unnecessary  distress  and 
inconvenience. As an example, they hadnt had the peace  of mind  of knowing that the 
mortgage would be fully covered if Mr C was to die or be diagnosed with a critical illness.  
I thought total compensation  of £300 was fair for the suffering caused.
responses to my provisional  decision
I havent heard anything  further from either Mr and Mrs C or Lifesearch.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there is nothing further for me to consider,  my final decision remains as per my 
provisional decision  for the same reasons.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  Lifesearch Partners Limited  to:
source a policy  to provide Mr C with:
Ref: DRN45052776olife and critical illness cover for an extra £52,500 for the period he would have  
had cover for if it had been increased under the initial policy;
or (at Mr and Mrs Cs option)
oextra life and critical illness cover  for any amount up to £52,500 for the period he 
would have had cover for if it had been  increased  under the initial policy  
pay Mr and Mrs C, at the start of each  future  insurance year, an amount equal to the 
difference in premium  between the cost of the newly  sourced cover  in the bullet point 
above and what  Mr and Mrs C would  have paid if theyd used the GIO to increase the 
cover under  the original policy
(if it hasnt  done so already) pay Mr and Mrs C total compensation of £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 July 2021.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4505277