K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that the loans she had from CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Pounds to 
Pocket) were unaffordable.
background
Mrs C had three instalment loans  from Pounds to Pocket between December 2011 and July 
2014 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Due Repayment Repaid
1 29 Dec 2011 £1,100 361d 24 Dec 2012 £159.13 20 Feb 2013
2 late fees
2 5 Dec 2013 £1,150 350d 20 Nov 2014 £175.78 On time
Refinanced 2 Mar 2014 £170 292d 19 Dec 2014 £208.60 On time
Refinanced 22 Apr 2014 £165 181d 20 Oct 2014 £319.88 20 Jun 2014
Early
3 30 Jul 2014 £1,150 355d 20 Jul 2015 £176.66 On time
Refinanced 24 Sep 2014 £230 359d 18 Sep 2015 £179.70 On time
Refinanced 30 Nov 2014 £75 355d 20 Nov 2015 £175.54 21 Jan 2015
Early
Pounds to Pocket says that, as some of the loans were taken  out more  than six years  before 
Mrs C complained, it is entitled to reject  the complaint without considering the merits. It adds 
that Mrs C would have  been reasonably aware  of the issue at the time she was making  the 
repayments so would  have known she had cause for complaint much earlier.
Nevertheless, Pounds to Pocket  sent evidence to show it had asked Mrs C about her income  
and checked her credit file for each of the loans.  It also asked Mrs C about  her expenditure 
before approving loan 3.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld in part. She considered this 
service could look into the merits of the complaint about all three  loans as she didnt see 
anything to show Mrs C should have known she had reason to complain any earlier.  Our 
adjudicator considered that the pattern  of lending itself showed that the second refinance on 
loan 3 was likely to be unsustainable. She recommended that Pounds to Pocket should 
refund the interest charged  on the second refinance  of loan 3 (plus 8% statutory interest)  
and that it should remove details about  that refinance from Mrs Cs credit file.
Mrs C responded to say, in summary, that the refinancing should be considered  as a new 
loan each time. She said that she had repayment  issues with the first loan and, therefore, no 
subsequent loans should have been  approved.
Pounds to Pocket accepted the adjudicators recommendations.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN45557612Pounds to Pocket needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mrs C could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure, as well as her credit  record.  With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Pounds  to Pocket should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Pounds  to Pocket  was required to 
establish whether  Mrs C could sustainably repay her loans (including those that were 
refinanced)  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds  and 
pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint.
Loan 1
Mrs C told Pounds to Pocket  that her monthly  income was £1,445 when she applied for this 
loan. Pounds  to Pocket also checked her credit file and I cant  see there was anything  that 
indicated Mrs C was in financial difficulty at the time. As the repayments were a relatively  
small proportion  of Mrs Cs income, I cant conclude Pounds to Pocket  was wrong to 
approve loan 1.
Ref: DRN45557613Loan 2
Again, Pounds to Pocket  asked Mrs C about  her income and checked  her credit file. Mrs C 
said her income remained the same, until the second refinance  of loan 2, at which  point she 
said it was £1,810. There was nothing in the available  information  that would have indicated  
to Pounds to Pocket  that Mrs C was in financial difficulty.
I accept what Mrs C says about the repayment  issues she had with the first loan, but as 
shed repaid that over nine months  earlier, I consider Pounds  to Pocket would have been 
reasonable to consider her financial circumstances  had improved in the meantime.
So Im satisfied Pounds to Pocket would have found loan 2, and top-ups, to be affordable.
Loan 3
Mrs C repaid loan 2 early  and again  declared  her income to be around £1,800  when she 
applied for loan 3. This time Pounds to Pocket  asked  Mrs C about her expenditure and found 
her disposable  income  was between £635 and £750 for each of loan 3 and its top-ups. As I 
cant see the credit file would have indicated  Mrs C was in financial difficulties, I can 
understand why Pounds to Pocket considered the loans to be affordable.
But Ive also looked  at the overall  pattern of Pounds to Pockets  lending  history with Mrs C, 
with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Pounds to Pocket  should  reasonably  have 
seen that further  lending  was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful.  And so Pounds to Pocket 
should have realised that it shouldnt have provided  any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Cs case, I think  that this point was reached by the 
second refinancing of loan 3. I say this because:
By the time Mrs C applied for the second  top-up to loan 3, shed borrowed six times 
from Pounds to Pocket in less than a year. Given Mrs C said she had more than 
enough disposable income  to cover the repayments, I consider Pounds to Pocket 
ought to have realised Mrs C was actually likely to be struggling  financially and that 
further borrowing  was unsustainable.
Mrs C wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount she owed Pounds to Pocket or 
the term of the loan.  Each time she re-financed loan 3, the loan term was extended 
and the repayments remained roughly the same. Mrs C was paying  large  amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Pounds to Pocket over an extended period.
I think that Mrs C lost out because Pounds to Pocket continued to provide refinancing of loan 
3 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Cs indebtedness by allowing  
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period;
the sheer number  of loans and top-ups was likely to have had negative  implications 
on Mrs Cs ability  to access mainstream  credit  and so kept her in the market for these  
high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  the second  refinance of loan 3 and Pounds  to Pocket 
should put things right.
Ref: DRN45557614my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Pounds  
to Pocket) should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mrs C paid on the second refinance of loan 3;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
The number of loans  taken by the time Mrs C refinanced loan 3 for the second  time 
means any information recorded about it is adverse. So all entries  about  this 
refinancing should  be removed from Mrs Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Pounds to Pocket to take off tax from this interest. 
Pounds to Pocket must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4555761