K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complained about Talbot and Muir SIPP LLPs (Talbot  and Muir) charges. She didnt 
think it was made clear that the standard single  property  charge would be applied  to her plan 
where a proportion of a single property was held by several self-invested  personal pensions 
(SIPPs). Mr S is dealing with the complaint for all three SIPPs.
background
In 2013 Mrs S was looking for a new provider for her pension  at the same time as two family 
members. They chose  Talbot and Muir as the new provider.
Talbot and Muir provided a schedule of fees and services. The start of that document  said: 
This document helps  you understand the fees for establishing and administering a SIPP.
The annual property  administration  fee was shown as £280 plus VAT.  This fee has been 
increased each  year by Talbot and Muir.
Three SIPPs were set up on an execution  only basis, including one for Mrs S. A charges 
tariff was provided and further information  was made available on line or by contacting  
Talbot and Muir directly.
Each of the SIPPs owned a proportion of a single commercial property. However, when 
Mrs S received the first fee invoices she noticed that her SIPP  was charged the full property 
fee. This was queried with Talbot and Muir. Mrs S said she understood as there  was one 
property involved only one fee would be charged  but apportioned  between the three  SIPPs.
An adjudicator investigated the complaint  but didnt uphold it, giving his reasons as follows:
Because Mrs S undertook her own research and didnt use a financial adviser, it was 
her responsibility to ensure she understood the charges involved prior to making an 
application to her chosen new provider.
The documentation  provided clearly set out what the charges were, including 
property charges. And the information  provided set out that a property charge would 
apply to a SIPP  which held property.
Mrs S could  reasonably have  contacted  Talbot and Muir to establish the actual 
charges that would apply to her specific SIPP if shed been  unsure.
The charges  were a matter for Talbot and Muir to determine, whether or not different 
providers had different  charges, and in any event the correct  charges were applied  
for administering  the SIPP.
Mr S didnt agree with the adjudicator and made the following points:
The adjudicator  focused on whether Talbot and Muir provided sufficient information 
about the fees to be paid by each trustee.  But there is also the issue  about whether 
they provided the service that they charged  for.
The property had been held in different SIPPs before where  the administrators did 
not charge each  member. Talbot and Muirs schedule of fees should have been  clear 
on this point.
Mr S had asked Talbot  and Muir to explain why it charged for one piece of work  three  
times. He could not see that there was additional  work  involved  for the one property.
Ref: DRN47394072my findings
Ive considered all the evidence  and arguments  in order to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first point I have considered is what the terms of the SIPP said about the fees. The 
schedule of fees and services  referred  to the fees for establishing and administering  a 
SIPP. A SIPP is an individual pension plan. Although a number of SIPPs  may be used to 
buy one property, they are still individual plans.  So, the fees applied to each individual  SIPP.  
The schedule went on to set out the annual administration fee for a property as £280 plus 
VAT. In my view, reading the document as a whole it is clear enough that each  SIPP would 
be charged a fee.
I have also considered whether anything within the information provided by Talbot  and Muir 
either in their documentation or anything said could have misled Mr or Mrs S about the 
charges. I have not seen anything which leads me to that conclusion. However, I can 
understand why Mr S would infer that a charge was per property as other  providers charged 
in that way. But, as I said earlier, I think the charges were clear enough that the charge was 
for each  SIPP.
Mr S also made the point  that Talbot and Muir hasnt provided the service for which the 
charges have been made. I can see why Mr S thinks that a service is only being provided 
once, but charged  three times. However,  Talbot and Muir has explained  that there is more 
administrative work when  a commercial property is co-owned by more  than one SIPP. The 
activity must be recorded within the property account and each individual  SIPP.  
In my view, it is clear that Talbot  and Muir is providing a service for each SIPP. Although,  for 
example, only one rental payment is received each  month it is still necessary to apportion 
that between each SIPP; and similarly for any other payments or work required. I am 
satisfied that a service  is being provided for each SIPP.
There is a question about whether it is fair to charge the same amount for each  SIPP when 
compared to one SIPP which holds one commercial  property.  In my view, the starting 
position has to be the terms that were set out. In this case, I have said that the fee for 
property administration  was clear enough. Mr and Mrs S should have realised that the fee 
was for each  SIPP. There are a large number of fees charged. None of these  fees appear to 
me to be unfair or excessive. It may be that the costs are lower for some  SIPPs  than others, 
but that does not mean it is unfair.
I am satisfied that the property administration fee was intended to be for each SIPP.  Talbot 
and Muir has provided a service and I am not persuaded that the fee charged  was unfair.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mrs Ss complaint and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020. 
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4739407