K822xcomplaint
Mr H has complained that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV  and its agents failed 
adequately to pay his hospital  charges  following his claim under his travel insurance policy.
background 
Mr H whilst on holiday in the USA where  he owns a holiday home became ill and required 
medical treatment. Cigna accepted his claim and said on 10 May 2017 that it would pay his 
hospital invoices  direct. Mr H ensured  any invoices he received were sent to Cigna.
Cigna said it asked the hospital  when  Mr H was treated to present their invoices in a certain  
format. But nothing further happened  until Mr H chased Cigna on 29 November 2017 asking 
if all the medical bills had been paid. Cigna  said it then again asked the hospital to use its 
preferred format in order to be paid on 28 December 2017. 
Mr H then told Cigna on 21 February  2018 he was being chased by debt collectors  
instructed on behalf of the hospital. Cigna said it paid a large invoice on 12 April 2018. 
However, Mr H believes  some  invoices due to be paid to the hospital  are still outstanding.
Mr H said due to the debt collectors  registering  the debt against  his name using his holiday 
home address, his USA credit card had been  cancelled by his bank. He also said he cant 
get another one until his credit rating is clarified  either by instructing a lawyer  or until the 
records falls off his credit  record in February  2024.
So Mr H complained and Cigna offered him £250 compensation but said his issues with his 
credit rating in America  were consequential  losses and not covered under his policy. Mr H 
then brought his complaint to us. The adjudicator thought Cigna should increase  its offer of 
compensation to £500 but she didnt think  it needed to do anything more.  Whilst Cigna 
agreed, Mr H did not, so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision 31 January. I said the following:
Mr Hs claim under  this travel policy was a valid claim, which Cigna accepted  and 
consequently the hospitals medical  invoices should have been paid as Cigna agreed 
to do in May 2017.  I agree with Mr H that its not his problem  if whatever  format 
Cigna requires invoices  from such third parties  isnt met by such  third parties. The 
issue is Mr H paid a premium for this cover  and Cigna agreed  his claim was valid and 
therefore it should have arranged to pay his hospital  expenses  as agreed.  
Or, at the very least, Cigna should have explained  to Mr H the problems its system 
was creating with the hospital that treated him. That would have allowed Mr H pay 
the hospital himself  possibly, as he was going to do initially. Instead, it simply did 
nothing from May to November 2017. Obviously, this meant the hospital, which quite  
naturally needed to take such action, as it deemed necessary, to be paid, took that 
action which  involved instructing debt collectors and marking  Mr Hs credit  record  in 
the USA adversely. This had consequences  for Mr H. Its neither fair nor reasonable 
in my opinion therefore, that Cigna deems these consequential losses  and so not 
covered by his policy, as these losses would not have occurred if Cigna  had paid the 
hospital properly  and promptly as it said it would do once it accepted  Mr Hs claim in 
May 2017. 
Ref: DRN42956662Cigna said it could do nothing because the hospital  didnt  put their invoices in the 
right format but thats of no relevance  or concern to Mr H. And in any event, it should 
have at least informed  Mr H of its rules about the formatting of invoices and the 
issues it was having with the hospital.  Perhaps then,  Mr H would have also been 
afforded the opportunity to at least talk to the hospital himself, as it didnt appear  
Cigna were chasing the hospital for the correct formatting of their invoices either. 
Consequently, since Cigna was doing nothing to ensure payment of these  invoices 
its obviously foreseeable that the hospital would  have  a difficulty  with their fees not 
being paid, which could adversely affect  Mr H.
Cignas final response  letter  had several factual  inaccuracies talking about his wife 
and his mother, when Mr H never mentioned  either. Mr H doesnt have a wife in any 
event or indeed a mother who is still alive. This shows me that Cigna didnt get to 
grips effectively with Mr Hs complaint  nor it seems also with actually paying his claim 
so as to not prejudice him and cause him losses  which  would not otherwise have 
occurred.
Mr H has detailed satisfactorily  to me, the consequences of his credit record  in the 
USA being so adversely affected  and I now think Cigna should pay all reasonable 
costs Mr H incurs  in putting that right. This is because had it actually done something 
coherent as regards paying Mr Hs claim,  namely  his hospital charges, none  of this 
would have happened. Mr H is presently off the view that some hospital  charges are 
still not paid by Cigna and so Cigna should  now confirm this to Mr H as soon as 
possible.
I consider the compensation payment of £500  now agreed by Cigna to be 
satisfactory compensation for the trouble and upset this caused Mr H, once his 
reasonable additional costs in correcting his credit  history are also reimbursed.
Cigna agreed  with the £500 compensation as it had done previously but it remained of the 
view it didnt need to do anything as regards the consequences suffered by Mr H of it not 
ensuring his claim for medical expenses was paid promptly.  It said it was disappointing the 
hospital never responded to its ID cards  for payment. It confirmed the hospital  Mr H 
attended in the USA is part of the Cigna USA network and they have a mutual  contractual  
agreement in regards  to costs. It nevertheless continues to feel that any consequential  costs 
are not covered by the policy and the £500  is adequate compensation. It acknowledges that 
the costs Mr H will go one to incur  in correcting his credit profile  could be vast but that it 
shouldnt be paid to pay for them when it has no way of quantifying them.
Mr H agreed in principle with my provisional  decision. But he said he sustained banking  
costs and exchange fees of £399.96 which he raised originally but which were now missed, 
which Cigna said originally were  consequential  losses so not covered. He showed his credit  
profile in the USA is still adversely affected,  as he was turned down by another bank  in the 
USA for a card. He said he spoke to the radiology billing department  of the hospital on 30 
January 2019  who confirmed  that in May 2018  the hospital discounted its invoice by 50% for 
Cigna but simply never received payment. They confirmed the invoice was now written  off as 
a bad debt.
He said Cignas inability  to pay his claim for medical expenses put him to considerable 
trouble and upset  and gross inconvenience  in the two years since  he made his claim 
suffering from kidney stones. His holiday subsequently in May 2018 was completely ruined 
by these calls from debt collectors. And as he owns real estate in the USA there  was a 
Ref: DRN42956663chance, the hospital could  have registered  a lean on his property. So he feels the 
compensation of £500 is on the low side but it would be negated  if these bank fees arent 
also refunded.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our remit  at this service  is to see if a business such  as Cigna here did anything wrong in its 
dealing with its consumer  or policyholder like Mr H, and if so, how it should then put that 
right.
Mr H had a valid claim under his travel  policy, which Cigna accepted. That claim was for it to 
pay his hospital  expenses that he incurred  for medical treatment  whilst  on holiday in the 
USA. Cigna didnt  do that. For reasons, which are of no concern to Mr H, it had issues with 
the hospital within its geographical global network  in actually making  any payment to it. It 
further never chased paying the hospital coherently or indeed  at all at times. So it did do 
something wrong. If failed  to pay Mr Hs claim. It was solely  that, which caused the hospital 
to instruct debt collectors, who then ensured Mr Hs credit profile in the USA was 
consequently so adversely affected.
I now consider that Cigna now needs to make  that right because first it has done  something 
wrong and secondly that consequently has adversely  affected  Mr H quite considerably as 
fully detailed by him and by my provisional  decision. Its irrelevant whether not those losses 
are covered  by the policy, what is relevant is that Cignas lack of action in paying  his claim 
(as in providing him with coherent customer service) has adversely affected Mr H. Theres a 
clear causal connection between Cigna failing  to pay Mr Hs hospital expenses and Mr Hs 
USA credit profile then being adversely affected. Had Cigna paid his claim, promptly  which 
meant it paid his hospital expenses fully and efficiently, then none of the damage to Mr Hs 
credit profile would have  occurred, because the hospital wouldnt have had to decide  to 
chase him for payment  instead, as its costs would  have already been paid by Cigna. That is 
solely down to Cigna in failing to discharge  the costs  of the hospital Mr H incurred as a valid 
claim under his travel policy.  So consequently, I consider its only fair and reasonable that 
Cigna now puts that right. 
From what  Mr H has detailed, the legal costs in correcting his credit profile might well be 
considerable. He has detailed  an approximate  cost of that directly to Cigna in his 
communication to it of 8 May 2018, so its not unquantifiable as Cigna suggests in its 
response to my provisional  decision. Again, however its irrelevant in my view,  as Cignas 
lack of coherent service to Mr H caused this issue. So irrespective, I consider it now must 
put that right in reimbursing Mr H his reasonable expenses in doing so. 
Mr H had previously detailed his bank charges of £399.96, which Cigna also dismissed 
originally as being consequential losses. Therefore, Cigna has always  been  aware  he 
incurred them and now confirmed  so again.  As Ive already determined that Cigna must 
refund Mr H these consequential losses, it of course  follows  that Cigna must refund Mr H 
these quantified  costs too. And I apologise to Mr H for omitting them in my provisional 
decision.
Mr H has also indicated that not all of his hospital  invoices  have  yet been paid by Cigna, 
considering his telephone  call with the radiology  department on 30 January 2019.  Obviously, 
Ref: DRN42956664this continues to be exasperating  for him so Cigna should now ensure all hospital  bills are 
fully paid and confirm that in writing to Mr H, should any further  issues  arise. 
my final decision
Therefore, for these  reasons, its my final decision that I uphold  this complaint.
I now require CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV to do the following:
Pay Mr H a total of £500 compensation if it already hasnt already done so.
Reimburse Mr Hs reasonable expenses in correcting his credit record  in the USA 
damaged by the hospitals registration of their debt on his credit  record.
Refund Mr H his bank  and exchange costs  of £399.96 adding  interest  at 8% simple 
from the date Mr H incurred these costs to the date it refunds him.*  
Confirm clearly and coherently  in writing, to Mr H that all invoices and fees for his 
treatment under this valid claim have  now been  paid.
*If CIGNA  Europe Insurance Company SA-NV considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. 
It should also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4295666