K822xComplaint
Ms L complains that BMW Financial Services(GB)  Limited (BMW  FS) provided her with poor 
service at the end of her hire purchase  agreement (HPA). She says this caused  her distress 
and inconvenience  and the compensation offered wasnt sufficient.
Background 
Ms L entered into a HPA with BMW  FS in 2016  to acquire a car. The agreement was due to 
come to an end on 15 February 2019. She says that she had intended to keep the car but a 
fault arose that the garage couldnt  identify and so she decided to return the car. She was 
aware that a balloon  payment would  come out of her account if she didnt contact  BMW FS 
and so she tried on several  occasions  to call (staying on the phone for extended  periods  of 
time) and also to email but she couldnt  make contact. She says contact was only made  
when she said she would  be leaving her car at the dealership she had acquired it from. Ms L 
says this caused her a lot of stress as she was concerned  the balloon  payment would be 
taken. 
Ms L says that she made arrangements to get another  vehicle and during  the period of 
uncertainty regarding the collection of her car she was paying  tax and insurance on two 
vehicles. She also says the return date for her car was changed  from 4 March to 27 
February meaning she had to take an extra days leave. She says it was only after the car 
had been collected that she received  the collection guidelines.
BMW FS accepted that the service provided  to Ms L wasnt  of the standard it should have 
been. It apologised and said that feedback has been  given to the relevant team  and further 
training has been  put in place. It says that due to the inconvenience caused,  it applied  a £50 
gesture of goodwill to Ms Ls agreement.  
Our investigator thought that Ms L had been caused  distress  and inconvenience by not 
being able to get in touch with BMW FS when she was nearing  the date of her balloon 
payment. Further delays then meant the car was collected 12 days  after the end of her 
agreement and Ms L says she was paying tax and insurance on two vehicles at this time. He 
also noted the inconvenience caused by the change in return date. Because of this he 
recommended that BMW FS pay Ms L an additional £75 compensation (bringing total 
compensation to £125).
BMW FS accepted our investigators view.  Ms L didnt. She didnt think  that the additional 
compensation amount was sufficient.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BMW FS has accepted  that Ms L wasnt provided  with the service she should  have been at 
the end of her finance agreement. The outstanding issue  is whether  the compensation 
suggested by our investigator  and accepted by BMW FS is sufficient.
I can understand why Ms L is upset by the experience she had. She decided to return  the 
car and was aware that if she didnt notify BMW FS then the balloon  payment would be 
taken from her account. So I understand that she would have been anxious  to get in touch 
Ref: DRN42627562with BMW FS. When she made several  attempts by both phone and emails with no success 
this caused her undue stress. She had to contact her original dealership  in order  for contact 
to be made.
During this period Ms L didnt  know  when  her car would need to be returned and had to 
make arrangements  for another vehicle which then resulted in a period where  she was 
paying tax and insurance on two vehicles. She also had the return date changed.
Given the issues Ms L experienced I accept that compensation is due and agree that the 
initial gesture  of goodwill of £50 applied  to her agreement wasnt  sufficient. I understand that 
Ms L feels the additional suggestion of a further  £75 isnt sufficient. However  I find this 
reasonable.
I say this because  while Ms L was caused  stress while trying  to contact BMW  FS and further 
inconvenience due to the change in return date, the car was returned and no balloon  
payment taken. It was Ms L choice in regard to the timing and arrival of her new car. 
BMW FS accepted the service wasnt sufficient  and has explained the actions taken.  
Therefore, on balance, I think the increased  compensation amount  (totalling  £125) is 
reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited should, as it has agreed,  pay 
Ms L an additional £75 compensation (bringing the total compensation to £125) for the 
distress and inconvenience she has been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4262756