K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about the decision  by Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA) to 
void (cancel from the start) his home insurance  policy.
background
In July 2018, Mr H took out a home insurance  policy with RSA.
In October  2018, Mr H made a claim for the loss of a watch.
RSA had concerns  about certain  aspects  of the claim.  In November 2018, it informed Mr H it 
would be undertaking a full review of the claim and that, in the meantime, it reserved its 
rights under the policy.
RSA noted inconsistencies in Mr Hs account.  It also became concerned that Mr H may have 
made misrepresentations when he took out the policy. On 14 February  2019,  it wrote to Mr H 
to challenge him over these matters. It asked for his written response within  14 days. It said 
that if it didnt receive a satisfactory response, it may decide to void the policy.
On 28 February 2019, Mr H emailed RSA saying hed just been notified that his watch had 
been found so he wished  to withdraw  his claim. He also said he wished to cancel his policy 
and asked for a refund  of any unused  premium.
On 1 March 2019,  RSA emailed Mr H advising  that it considered he had not presented  his 
claim honestly. In view of this, and in accordance  with the policy terms, it was voiding his 
policy and hence  was unable to consider his claim. It said he wasnt  entitled to a refund of 
premiums.
Mr H complained to RSA. He said it couldnt void his policy because he had already 
cancelled it. He considered its decision to void had been made because  of his request for 
cancellation.
RSA didnt uphold  Mr Hs complaint. It said that the decision  to void the policy had already  
been made and the procedure was underway  before Mr H made his request for cancellation  
so this request  couldnt have been the reason for the voidance decision.  It said that the team  
responsible for the voidance would have  had no knowledge of the cancellation request until 
after the notice  of voidance had been issued. It noted that, in any case, it had previously 
notified Mr H that it had reserved its rights  under  the policy.  It said that while the reservation 
of rights (ROR)  was in place, Mr H was not allowed  to make any amendments or alterations 
to his policy, including cancellation. Therefore, it couldnt have processed his request to 
cancel the policy even if it had received it in advance of its decision to void the policy.
Mr H was unhappy at RSAs response. He referred his complaint  to us.    
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that RSA had notified Mr H of its ROR well before he tried to cancel the policy and that, in 
any case, Mr H hadnt  requested  cancellation  in the way set out in the policy.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators findings.  He considered that it was unfair  that he hadnt 
been allowed  to cancel his policy. He furthermore  thought that if his policy had been voided, 
he should receive a refund of his premiums.
Ref: DRN49066682In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Mr H doesnt appear  to be disputing that RSA had reasonable  grounds  for accusing him of 
making deliberate  misrepresentations.  He is simply disputing its entitlement to void his policy  
in light of his earlier request  for the policy to be cancelled. This is therefore the issue  on 
which I have concentrated  in this decision.
The policy has a fraud section which says that if the policyholder makes a claim, or a 
statement in support of a claim, knowing it to be false, RSA may void the policy  and may not 
return the premiums. Im satisfied this is fair and is a common clause in insurance policies.
RSA became concerned about  whether Mr Hs claim was genuine. On 29 November 2018, 
RSA wrote to Mr H advising  that it was undertaking a full review of his claim and that, while 
this review was ongoing,  it reserved its rights  under the policy.
On 14 February 2019, RSA wrote to Mr H highlighting  various discrepancies  in his policy  
application and claim. It asked  him to respond  within 14 days and warned that it could decide 
to void the policy.  Im satisfied this was fair and gave Mr H an adequate opportunity  to 
provide an explanation for the discrepancies.
On 1 March 2019,  just before 9am, RSA emailed Mr H to advise  that it believed  he had 
made deliberate misrepresentations  concerning his claim and, in view of this, it was voiding 
his policy  and retaining his premiums.  Mr H hasnt disputed  the alleged  misrepresentations. 
In view of this, I consider  that RSA acted fairly and in line with the policy terms.  
Mr H thinks that RSA was unable to void his policy because he had already cancelled it. He 
says he did this through an email sent to certain RSA personnel just before 10pm on 
28 February 2019. However, the policy document explains that to cancel the policy  the 
policyholder should ring a particular telephone number.  Mr H didnt ring this number. 
I therefore consider  that Mr H hadnt cancelled the policy before RSA issued its confirmation 
that the policy had been voided. 
Im furthermore satisfied that Mr Hs email indicating  his wish to cancel the policy wasnt 
seen by the RSA department responsible for making  the voidance  decision until after the 
decision had been communicated  to Mr H. Im therefore satisfied that Mr Hs request for 
cancellation was not the cause of RSAs decision to void the policy.
In view of all the above, Im satisfied  that RSA acted  fairly by voiding Mr Hs policy  and 
retaining his premiums. I dont need to consider whether RSAs reservation of its rights 
meant that Mr H was unable to cancel his policy. This is because  he hadnt properly 
requested cancellation before the voidance notice was issued.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN49066683Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4906668