K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained about two whole-of-life (WoL) assurance policies which 
they hold with Old Mutual  Wealth Life Assurance  Limited (Old Mutual).
They had been led to believe the policies were  on track to maintain the sum assured they 
had intended,  but at recent reviews theyve  been informed the likelihood is substantial 
premium increases will be required  or the sums  assured will have to reduce.
background
Mr and Mrs P were  advised to take out the policies in 2001 and 2002.  They are not 
complaining about the advice they were given or suitability  of the policies, as it was 
explained the policies were subject  to reviews.
The complaint is about the administration of the policies, and more specifically the lack of 
prior communication explaining that the premiums  would need to increase so dramatically if 
they wished to maintain the same  sum assured moving forwards.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint, but recommended it shouldnt be upheld.  
In summary  she said the reviews and communication with Mr and Mrs P was satisfactory, 
and to date there had been no financial loss (as the concerns were about  likely future  
increases).
Mr and Mrs P disagreed.  They made a number of points, but in summary said:
During the review  periods from 2008 to 2017 the communication from Old Mutual 
focussed on increasing cover with the automatic inflation option, but didnt warn that 
premiums couldnt  sustain the sum assured over the long term.
How after so many  years  of the premium  being  sufficient to maintain the original sum 
assured, can they be told it will need  to massively increase in coming  years  to keep 
the same  cover.
Old Mutual must have  made  an error and the reviews  going back to the policy 
commencement in 2001 should be checked.
Although they have  not yet suffered a financial  loss, they are trying  to be proactive  in 
dealing with an inevitable  loss as the premiums costs increase.
The high increases in future reviews will become  unaffordable at a time in life when 
they will least be able to afford it.
They have put a proposal to Old Mutual as a compromise and to resolve the 
situation.  It will need to guarantee  the future sum assured, and they will agree to a 
reasonable premium  increase capped at 4% annually.
As the adjudicator wasnt persuaded to change her mind, Ive now been  asked  to review 
everything afresh and make an impartial decision.
Ref: DRN49818172my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the adjudicator, and for broadly the same  reasons.
Its important I explain  that I have reviewed and considered all the points made  by both 
parties to this complaint.  But in setting out my decision, Ive referred only to the issues 
which I consider to be central to my conclusions.
I also understand that Mr and Mrs P have explained they dont have any concerns about  the 
sale or suitability of the policies.  But I should  point out that its the adviser who 
recommended the policies  who I would  have expected to explain how reviews work  and 
what the possible impact  could be in later years.   But this complaint is against  the policy 
provider and so Im focussing upon  the administration of the policies.
Old Mutual has confirmed the policies had an initial 10-year period where the sum assured 
and premium payable  was guaranteed.  Following  that time the cost and level of protection 
would be subject to reviews and need adjusting.  This is a basic  principle of reviewable WoL 
policies.
I understand Mr and Mrs P must have been  shocked by the estimated amount of premium  
increases that will be required to keep the sum assured  at the amount theyd  wanted.   This is 
particularly so having believed the policy was on track to maintain those benefits with the 
existing premiums being paid.
The reason  Old Mutual hadnt expressed concerns  about the ability to maintain the existing 
cover following reviews  is because its objective  was to assess  the projections  for the next 
five years.   So it didnt  have cause to query or set out the longer term costs.   Whilst I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs P would want to have longer term certainty;  that is difficult  to achieve 
with reviewable  policies.  
The two key factors which are built into a business calculations  and projections  are the 
actual cost of cover  and investment performance.  The cost of cover increases with age, and 
changes in line with the wider market.   The initial cash surplus  that builds up from premiums 
is invested and used to subsidise the cost of cover  at it increases in later years.  But  long 
term investment performance  is speculative  and often doesnt  directly match the actual 
changes in the cost of cover.  Its for these reasons that policies become more expensive in 
later life, or in the alternative the amount of cover  has to reduce to stay within an affordable 
level of cost.
Whilst I entirely understand  how frustrating the situation is for Mr and Mrs P, in order to keep 
the sum assured they want, it will have  always have cost them  a considerable amount, and 
more and more  each year as they get older.   Unfortunately that is the nature  of WoL policies, 
and the older  the insured  individuals  become, the less value comes from the sum assured 
benefit.  But the key benefit is that it gives the flexibility to keep or vary the amount of cover, 
without the need for medical underwriting  as individuals get older.
Mr and Mrs P have  made an offer to compromise with Old Mutual  in order  for them  to keep 
their sum assured within  what they consider to be manageable  future premium increases.   
Ref: DRN49818173But I cant say its acted  unreasonably by declining  that offer,  as it doesnt reflect the real 
cost to provide  the cover  for an unspecified  period.  I understand Mr and Mrs P would have  
ideally liked to have  known they would  need  to pay higher  premiums  earlier,  but ultimately 
they would  have still needed  to make those higher payments, as its the increasing actual 
cost of cover which is driving  the need  for higher premiums.
Whilst I realise Mr and Mrs P will likely disagree with my conclusions,  I have considered  
everything impartially, having taken account of what theyve said.  As  Im satisfied the 
communication from Old Mutual has been  adequate, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask it to do 
anything more now.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against Old Mutual Wealth  
Life Assurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4981817