K821x#15Complaint
Miss H has complained that Indigo Michael  Limited  (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) 
didnt complete enough affordability checks before approving her a Safety Net facility.  
Miss H says SNC  should have realised that her debts were  increasing.
Background
Miss H approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in September 2013. This was a running  
credit account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit  limit, or funds 
would be deposited  into their bank account once their account  balance fell below a safety 
net amount  of the customers choosing.
Miss H was initially given  a facility with a £250  credit  limit in September 2013.  Her limit was 
then increased on a further  six occasions with her final increase occurring in February  2016  
which took her limit to £710. The facility was repaid and closed in February  2019.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Miss Hs complaint. He thought the checks SNC carried  
out before  granting this facility were  proportionate.  And that the information  SNC gathered  
about Miss Hs circumstances suggested she would  be able to afford the repayments.  But 
due to the way she used  the facility, our adjudicator  thought  SNC  should have been stopped 
allowing Miss H to continue using it from 29 March 2014.
Miss H agreed with our adjudicators opinion. SNC disagreed and provided  the following 
complaint points:
Monthly repayments are usually  taken automatically when the bank balance 
increases, minimising  the interest charged.
Miss Hs fixed  term equivalent repayments  were  £312.40,  which  were  always less 
than her disposable income  and therefore  by the FCAs definition,  the product  was 
always affordable.
SNC offered  Miss H its breathing space feature regularly  from March 2017, by which  
she could cap repayments if she found them to be too high. She only took advantage 
of this feature  once  - for 2 weeks in April 2018.  
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
To begin with, Miss H seems to accept  our adjudicators opinion,  that SNC wasnt  wrong to 
approve her running credit facility. As I think the initial  approval  of her facility  is no longer in 
dispute, I have  no reason  to reach  a finding  about  that in this final decision. This decision will 
focus on whether  SNC did enough to monitor Miss Hs facility whilst she held it and whether 
there was a point  which SNC should  have  halted  any further borrowing on it.
the relevant regulations in place  at the time Miss H was given her Safety Net facility
Ref: DRN41141032In its recent correspondence,  SNC has made  reference to regulations specifically CONC 
5.2A.28. This states that a firm should consider the customer's ability  to repay  the maximum 
amount of credit available (equivalent  to the credit  limit) under the agreement within a 
reasonable period; and may, in considering what is a reasonable period, have regard to the 
typical time required for repayment that would apply  to a fixed-sum  unsecured personal loan 
for an amount equal to the credit limit. 
However, the above regulation came  into effect from November 2018.  As this was more 
than five years after Miss Hs facility was approved,  and nearly four years  after our 
adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld from  Ive not put any weight on this 
regulation when thinking about whether SNC  made an error. 
Indeed, at the time the facility was approved, and at the point the adjudicator  felt the 
complaint should  be upheld  SNC was regulated by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT)  with 
guidance set out in the Irresponsible Lending Guidance  (ILG). 
monitoring the facility  
Although I dont think SNC was wrong  to have initially granted the facility,  I do think it was 
wrong to have allowed Miss H to continue to drawdown on the account  when she cleared 
her outstanding balance in March  2014. And Ive explained why below.
 
At that time,  SNC had an obligation to monitor the way Miss H was using her facility. This is 
outlined in the ILG  Principals for Business 2.2 says;  
monitor the borrowers  repayment record during the course of the agreement, 
offering assistance  where borrowers appear to be experiencing financial difficulty
And SNC was able to monitor the facility  because it had access  Miss Hs bank statements. 
This means  I think  SNC  was wrong  to have allowed Miss H to take further drawdowns after 
this date, as for the reason Ill explain below the way she was using  the account indicated  
she wasnt using it in a sustainable manner.  
When the facility  was granted, I dont think it was unreasonable  of SNC to have believed  that 
Miss H would repay the outstanding balance  over a reasonable period  of time, which could  
result in monthly repayments  of around  £20. After all, this is what  it was expected, and the 
way this facility  was designed.  But if Miss H wasnt using the facility as intended,  this could 
indicate to SNC that she was having  wider financial problems. 
In order to see whether  I think  it was fair to allow  Miss H to continue to draw down on the 
facility after March 2014, Ive considered the relationship between when repayments were  
made to SNC; the value of those payments and then when Miss H returned for further 
borrowing. After all, if Miss H was making  significant repayments to SNC, and then quickly  
drawing down a similar sum again  in a matter of days, this ought to have  indicated  that she 
wasnt using the facility as it was designed to be used, and she therefore may not have been  
in a position to afford  the repayments. 
Looking at the transactions leading up to the balance being  cleared at the end of 
March 2014, I think  there  was evidence which shouldve  been enough for SNC to have 
stopped Miss H from take any further  drawdowns.  Ill set out the evidence  for this below. 
Ref: DRN41141033Miss H was initially given  a facility with a £250  limit. Within  a few weeks,  she had requested 
further funds drawing up to her that limit. This is important, because  when SNC approved  the 
facility, it was entitled to believe  that Miss H would repay what she owed  over a reasonable 
period of time. But a few months  into her borrowing, it was clear that Miss H wasnt  repaying 
what she borrowed over a reasonable period of time. 
Indeed, a review  of the statement of account provided by SNC shows  that in September, 
October and November Miss H borrowed,  repaid  in full the amount she drew down and 
then by the middle of the following month Miss H would borrow again. 
It appears that Miss Hs borrowing behaviour changed in December  2013.  On the day she 
was paid her salary, she paid £296.90 on 20 December 2013 to repay  her balance in full. 
But a week later, she requested £300  which was approximately the same  amount as she 
had recently repaid. Miss H, again, repaid  her balance  in full the day after.  But within  three 
days she had requested the approximately the same  amount as what  she had just repaid.  
And this pattern continued throughout January, February and March 2014. 
Whilst SNC has said that Miss H could  have paid what she owed in monthly  instalments,  it 
had evidence that she was not repaying her account  in this way. And it needed to consider  
the manner in which Miss H was using her facility when it monitored the account. Miss H 
was showing a potential  reliance on SNCs facility by needing to borrow  each month, 
borrowing mainly up to her maximum credit limit within a few days of repaying what  she 
owed in full. Although this wasnt a payday loan,  Miss H was in effect using the facility as 
such. 
So as Ive said, the pattern had been established  that Miss H would drawdown, repay a 
month later and then,  because she couldnt sustainably afford the repayments, she would  
immediately return to SNC in order to fill a hole in her finances caused  by making the 
repayments. Essentially,  Miss H wasnt in fact repaying her balance, but paying interest to 
service the debt over an extended period of time. 
SNC had read only access to Miss Hs bank statements throughout this period  so it was 
able to review and monitor her bank  activity. And this activity showed that she had continued 
to borrow and make repayments  to other  short-term lenders during the period she was 
borrowing from it. In my view, these were not the actions of someone in a stable financial 
position. 
Miss H was receiving her salary  at the end of each month along with child benefits and child 
tax credits. Her income was averaging  around £1,688 in the months  previous  to 29 March  
2014. Miss Hs statements show she was paying for a mortgage,  insurances, council tax, 
gas and electric bills. Her outgoings for these bills were equal  to around half of her monthly 
income even without considering her expenses for food, petrol and her repayments to other 
short term lenders.  
In addition to these costs, Miss H was continuing  to make regular repayments (potentially to 
friends and family) of £181 on the last day of the month. Whilst we have  little information 
about these payments, they were regular  each month and could be seen on Miss Hs 
statements from the start of her borrowing relationship. 
When considering  all of the information  about Miss Hs circumstances along with the 
repayments she was making each month,  I think by 29 March 2014, it was clear that the 
facility had become  unsustainable and allowing Miss H to continue using was detrimental  to 
Ref: DRN41141034her financial  situation.  I think this is further demonstrated by the way she continued to use 
the facility for a further five years  in the same manner.
Overall, I think SNC shouldve withdrawn the facility from 29 March 2014  and not allowed
Miss H to continue using it from this date.  
What SNC  should  do to put things right
To put things right for Miss H, SNC  should:
Refund all the interest  and charges  applied  to Miss Hs facility  from 29 March  2014 
until the account closed;
add 8% interest per year simple on the above  interest and charges from the date
they were date to the date of settlement;*
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Hs credit file as a result  of not
stopping the facility from 29 March 2014.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Im partly upholding Miss Hs complaint.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Miss H as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Robert Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4114103