K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that BMW  Financial  Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) held him liable for car 
finance he says was taken out in his name by a fraudster.
background
In January 2017, Mr N entered into a hire purchase agreement  with BMWFS for the 
purchase of a car at a cash  price  of £164,995.
Mr N says he did so as part of a business  arrangement with a third party, C, whereby he 
would buy and sell luxury  cars for profit, with finance  taken out in Mr Ns name but arranged  
by C. Mr N says he gave  C his bank statements, pay slips, P60 and a copy  of his passport 
and driving license, in order to obtain the finance.
To gain funds for a deposit, C arranged  for three, five figure loans to be completed in Mr Ns 
name, all of which were paid into Mr Ns bank account. Mr N transferred the proceeds of 
those loans to C who subsequently made payments into Mr Ns account to cover  the monthly 
payments.
C then arranged to acquire a car on finance, using some of the loan funds as a deposit, as 
agreed with Mr N. C then exported the car out of the country, but instead of selling it and 
sharing the profits with Mr N, C has not contacted Mr N nor made any payments towards the 
finance agreement, or preceding loans since. Mr N says he realised  at that point  hed been  
scammed. Both Mr N and BMWFS reported  the matter to the Police.
Mr N complained to BMWFS, saying he shouldnt be held liable for the finance  agreement.  
BMWFS issued a final response  letter (FRL) to Mr N on 15 March 2018,  rejecting his 
complaint. It said it hadnt acted incorrectly and that it couldnt discuss the matter  further  with 
Mr N while  the Police  investigation  was ongoing.
Mr N remained  unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our adjudicator rejected 
Mr Ns complaint. He said BMWFS had done  nothing wrong  as Mr N had willingly  agreed to 
C obtaining the finance and had consented  to C completing the application  on his behalf.
Mr N remained  unhappy and asked  for an ombudsman to consider the matter afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed Mr Ns complaint, I have 
decided not to uphold it for the following reasons.
Due diligence checks
Mr N says BMWFS didnt carry out sufficient due diligence  checks to protect him. He says it 
didnt call him during  the application process,  and that the car was handed over to a 
stranger, instead  of Mr N.
So, Ive looked  at what checks BMWFS did carry out, whether  they were  sufficient  in the 
circumstances, and Ive thought about what might have happened, had it carried out further 
checks.
Ref: DRN46273402BMWFS carried  out an automatic credit check against Mr Ns credit  file, which  is it says is 
based on a fixed  set of criteria. But because  of the sums involved, it also carried out an 
enhanced, manual check. As part of that check,  it requested his bank statements, P60 end 
of year certificate and payslips. Ive reviewed those documents along with Mr Ns credit 
report to see if there  was anything that should have alerted BMWFS. 
Mr Ns credit report shows no defaults or negative markers before the loan in question was 
completed. And I havent seen anything  on the credit file that I think should have given 
BMWFS cause for concern. 
So, Ive looked  at the subsequent manual check carried out. BMWFS has provided  me with 
copies of the P60, bank statements and payslips it looked at as part of its checks. Its also 
sent me an audit trail showing the underwriting  process it followed,  as well as a recording of 
an enhanced security call it made  before the sale was completed.
Mr Ns P60 shows  an annual  salary  of £125,000 for the tax year ending  April 2016. The 
payslips are dated in the following tax year and show an increased  annual  salary of 
£137,000. The bank statements for the same period match the payslips and show  the 
corresponding net payment into Mr Ns account on the corresponding day. The bank 
statements also show a balance of £27,775.77  in Mr Ns current account,  and £64,028.71  in 
his savings account, which was enough to cover the £41,500  deposit  for the car and leave a 
significant surplus.
Ive compared  the income  and expenditure on Mr Ns statements, which show  an increasing 
balance month on month. And no other significant  outgoings that I would expect BMWFS  to 
query.
In the enhanced security call, a member  of BMWFSs underwriting team ran through  a 
number of security questions, all of which  were  answered in full and without hesitation. The 
answers given included Mr Ns date of birth, address, credit card limits, names of his banks 
and the account limits, and his job title.
In a later interview with the National Vehicle Crime Intelligence Service, Mr N said his true 
annual salary was approximately  £30,000.  He said he recognised  the above statements to 
be his but said the payments from his employer  had been massively  inflated. He also said 
the payments  C had made into his account  to cover  the loan repayments had been removed 
from the statements. And that the payslips in his name were  not his and were false.
Mr N has also told our service he didnt  speak to BMWFS throughout the process.  Having 
listened to the call recordings BMWFS have sent me, and having spoken to Mr N myself,  I 
accept Mr N didnt speak  to BMWFS. His voice is different to that in the recordings and 
Mr Ns description  of the arrangement with C was that C would deal with the logistics  of the 
transaction, so it makes  sense that Mr N wouldnt have any direct contact with BMWFS 
himself. And I accept Mr Ns true salary is not what appeared  on the documents seen by 
BMWFS. 
With that being the case, Ive thought about  whether  BMWFS  could have identified  that the 
documents it received were doctored. Without carrying  out a forensic  investigation, I cant 
say there  were any obvious signs that should  have alerted BMWFS. There  dont appear to 
be any obvious discrepancies in the dates or account balances.  And the formatting doesnt 
look abnormal, by which I mean the font seems  to match and the text size is consistent.
Ref: DRN46273403But Ive also thought about  whether BMWFS should  have been alerted  that something was 
amiss by relation  to the incomings and outgoings  on the statements. Again, I havent seen 
anything to persuade me BMWFS should  have known the documents  were  forged. The 
payments all cross reference  accurately  between  each document, and theres nothing on 
any of the documents that, in my estimation, ought  to have signalled  BMWFS to carry out 
further checks, or decline to provide finance.
Mr Ns documents showed  an increasing annual salary that was comfortably high enough to 
meet the loan repayments of £1,906.12, as well as substantial savings, even factoring in the 
significant deposit required for the vehicle.
Beyond that, Ive also thought about what else BMWFS might have done to prevent the 
fraud from happening. Given what Mr N has said about his relationship with C, I think its 
more likely than not that Mr N would have taken  steps to ensure that either he provided  any 
information C needed to pass further  security, or would have provided any information that 
was requested of him, had BMWFS contacted him directly.
I say that because Mr N accepts he intended  to buy the car, and because he had already 
authorised C to complete other finance deals as well as additional paperwork on his behalf. 
And he had handed over his personal data,  including financial details and identification 
details, for that purpose. 
Prior to the application to BMWFS, Mr N received £79,000 of unsecured loans into his 
account, which he transferred to C and arranged for C to send  him money  sufficient to cover 
the monthly repayments. He was also aware  C would  be looking to buy an expensive car in 
his name:  that was central to the arrangement. 
Mr N says he didnt authorise  C to falsify his documents. But given the sums  involved, i.e. 
£79,000 of unsecured finance and the financing of a luxury car, compared  to Mr Ns true 
salary, it seems more likely than not that either Mr N would have been aware that C was not 
representing Mr Ns true financial position,  or that he was naive to the situation and ought 
reasonably to have  been  aware. Either way, Im satisfied C was acting with Mr Ns full 
authority throughout the application, and that Mr N would have continued  to take steps to 
fulfil any requirements  to obtain the car in question, had BMWFS  carried  out any further 
checks.
Ive thought about whether BMWFS might have  taken any more steps to try to contact Mr N 
directly. But given the additional  security  checks it undertook, Im not persuaded there was a 
good reason to make further investigations  and I havent seen anything that should have 
made BMWFS question  further whether it was truly speaking  with Mr N. C had all of Mr Ns 
identification documents (that Mr N had voluntarily  provided to him) and answered the 
enhanced security questions confidently and in full. So, there was no apparent reason for 
further suspicion.
So, for the above reasons, Im satisfied BMWFS carried out reasonable due diligence  
checks, and didnt fail Mr N in the process  of doing so.
Delivery of the vehicle
Beyond the initial security checks, Mr N also complains that BMWFS  didnt do enough  to 
protect him when the vehicle was handed  over. He says it was given to a complete stranger.
Ref: DRN46273404BMWFS has sent me recordings of calls it says were made to Mr N around the time of 
delivery. The calls were  made by a broker, B, on its behalf. It says further security checks  
were carried  out and that Mr N confirmed  all was well. Having listened  to the call recordings, 
I accept B spoke with C, not Mr N. So, I agree  Mr N didnt himself confirm all was well. 
Ive also spoken  with the dealership that arranged collection of the car. They told me the 
vehicle was collected by an agent  on behalf  of the buyer, which they say is not uncommon. 
The dealer  is based approximately 200 miles away from Mr N, so I dont think  that 
arrangement itself is unusual. There was a higher risk given  this was a distance transaction, 
but Im satisfied the steps Ive mentioned above were sufficient in the circumstances, and 
that BMWFS couldnt reasonably have done  anything more to stop the fraud.
B told me it asked Mr N to send his driving  license and a credit card statement in for 
verification. Only of course, B actually spoke to C, who sent in a copy of the requested 
documents. B was effectively acting as BMWFSs  agent in this regard, but Im satisfied B 
carried out reasonable checks, and that the checks represented a further enhancement of 
the checks BMWFS  had previously carried out.
With that being said, Ive also thought about  Mr Ns suggestion that BMWFS failed by 
allowing the car to be handed over to a stranger. So, putting aside the above checks, Ive 
thought about what would  have  happened  had BMWFS insisted Mr N attend the dealership 
in person, with his identification in order to collect  the vehicle.
To help answer  that, its useful to provide further  background  into Mr Ns arrangement  with 
C. In his statement  to the National Vehicle Crime Intelligence Service,  Mr N described how 
he met C and gave details  of the agreement he had reached. He said he met C at a family 
event in the middle of 2016,  some  six months  before the car finance  deal in question was 
completed. And that C was friends with others in attendance that day. 
Mr N said he met C several times over the coming  weeks, during which time they spoke  
about Cs business plan. C said he had a history of trading  luxury  cars for profit and 
explained Mr N would  need to obtain capital, secure a car finance  agreement,  then sell the 
car for profit.  Mr N was told the deal would take around six months to complete.
The capital funds  Mr N secured began arriving in his account in August 2016.  And C made 
payments to Mr N of almost £20,000  from 26 September 2016  to 14 February  2017.  C told 
Mr N he had a buyer  for a car lined  up and Mr N agreed for C to purchase a car on Mr Ns 
behalf. He said he received a welcome pack for the car in question sometime in January, 
and that he wasnt  surprised. Mr N said those documents contained his signature, but he 
said he had not signed them himself.
Despite Mr N seeing that his signature had been  forged,  Mr N didnt take any action at that 
point. By which I mean, he didnt  contact BMWFS to ask about delivery of the vehicle, or 
question any of the logistics. Mr N says his final contact with C was in May 2017, shortly 
before he reported  the matter to Action Fraud.
From all of the above, my view is that every action  C took up to and including  collection of 
the vehicle was expected  or implied  as part of the arrangement Mr N had agreed to. That is 
to say that every step of the transaction would be handled by C, with no input  from Mr N. 
The only step Mr N didnt  agree to was C taking the vehicle for his own purposes.
Ref: DRN46273405On balance, I think its fair to suggest its more likely than not that it was within Mr Ns 
reasonable contemplation that C would collect and did collect the vehicle. The agreed 
intention was to sell the vehicle for a profit, an action C would carry out as he told Mr N he 
already had a buyer lined up.
Mr N has described a relationship he built up with C, together with a business  venture he 
had agreed to, all of which involved C carrying out all of the work. So, if BMWFS  had insisted 
Mr N collect the car himself, bringing  with him his Passport and Driving  License, on balance,  
my view is that he would  have handed the car over to C in any event, to complete the sale. 
And therefore, the outcome would  have been the same.
Mr N was still receiving regular  payments into his account at the time and, in fact, received a 
payment of £10,000  from C within days of the car finance agreement completing, as well as 
two payments totalling £3,605 over the coming weeks.
Because of what I say above, I take the view that Mr N had authorised  C to take possession  
of the car on his behalf. At which point, the risk of the vehicle no longer sits with BMWFS.  
So, I cant reasonably  hold it responsible for any subsequent actions, and I dont consider it 
treated Mr N unfairly during the transaction, or failed him such  that it should have to 
compensate him or release him from his liabilities  under  the finance agreement.
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I do not uphold  Mr Ns complaint and Im not asking 
BMWFS to do anything to put things right for Mr N.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2021. 
Alex Brooke-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4627340