K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Nationwide Building  Society didnt do enough to tell her when it 
increased the savings  limit on its Loyalty Saver account. 
background
Mrs L has a Loyalty Saver account  with Nationwide and saved the maximum of £50,000 
allowed. In October 2017 Nationwide increased the savings limit to £100,000 and put up 
notices in branch  and on its website. Nationwide also emailed  customers  about the change if 
they were signed  up to its Savings Watch  service.
In October  2018 Mrs L found out the limit had gone up and paid in another  £50,000. Mr L, 
her husband, contacted  Nationwide and complained that it hadnt  done enough to tell online 
customers about the new savings limit.
Nationwide didnt uphold  the complaint and said there was no regulatory requirement for it to 
contact each customer directly. Nationwide said it had given details of the new savings limit 
to customers online  and in branch.  Mr L referred Mrs Ls complaint to this service and an 
investigator looked at it. 
The investigator thought Nationwide had dealt with Mrs Ls complaint fairly. She said it had  
taken reasonable  steps to tell her about  the  limit change. Mr L, who brings  the complaint on 
behalf of Mrs L, didnt agree and said the essence of the complaint was that Nationwide  
hadnt done enough to let online customers know about the new limit. Mr L said Nationwides  
online banking facility  should include this information when customers  check their account. 
Mr L also thought  Nationwides  terms and conditions werent fair. Mr L asked to appeal the 
adjudicators view so Mrs Ls complaints been  passed to me to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide provided  details of the new account  limit in branch and on its website. It also sent 
emails to customers signed up for Savings  Watch   a service  that provides  information about 
its savings products. I understand Mrs L wasnt signed up for Savings Watch.  
Mr L says Nationwide  should include the savings limit with the other  information  it provides 
via its online  banking facility. But Nationwide is free to decide what  information it gives out on 
its online banking facility.  I appreciate it did change the savings limit in October 2017, but its 
not something thats subject to regular amendments.  I think Nationwide did enough by giving 
details of the new savings limit online  and in branch. 
Mr L says Mrs L doesnt visit branches and is an online customer. He thinks Nationwides  
failed to treat her fairly  as an online  customer. But I havent been persuaded thats the case. 
Nationwide put the information about  its new limit online for around two months.  The correct 
savings limit is shown in the product  information currently online.
Mrs L wouldve needed to look at Nationwides website separately  to her online banking  to 
get the information. But I havent found thats  unreasonably inconvenient. Its arguably 
similar to customers  that dont use online banking who wouldve had to visit a branch  and 
Ref: DRN44924172look at a notice  to have been  made  aware of the change. I understand Mrs Ls concerns and 
Mr Ls point about  how Nationwide treats online customers. But Im satisfied it did enough to 
let account holders know about the new limit. 
Mr L says Nationwides  terms arent fair and has raised The 1999  Consumer Contract  
Regulations. Were an informal dispute  resolution  service, not a court, and decide  cases on 
a fair and reasonable basis. That means, I make my decision based  on what  I think  is fair 
and reasonable having  considered everything thats  been provided. So whilst I take on board 
Mr Ls comments about the terms, I havent  found them to be unfair. Theres  nothing in the 
terms that says Nationwide will contact  Mrs L before  it changes  the savings limit. The terms 
say Nationwide  has to get in touch  with customers before making  a change to their 
detriment. But increasing the savings limit isnt a change to Mrs Ls detriment. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr L and Nationwide have said and provided. Having 
done so, I havent been  persuaded to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Im satisfied Nationwide  
took reasonable steps to tell its customers about the limit increase by posting information  
about it online and in branch. I understand Mr L feels Mrs Ls been treated unfairly as an 
online customer but I havent found that to be the case. Mr L says Nationwide  should build 
the savings limit into its online banking facility. But its up to Nationwide to decide what 
information it gives customers  online.  As I think Nationwide dealt with Mrs Ls complaint 
fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4492417