K820x#14complaint
Miss C complained about what happened  when she changed her account at National 
Westminster Bank Plc.
background
Miss C said that she had a notification  about  bank charges  on her account,  so she went to a 
branch at the start of May 2018 to change the account. She said that she wanted  to close  
her old account and open a more basic account without a monthly charge instead. 
Miss C had two direct  debits on the account, and she wanted them to be transferred to her 
new account. She said shed definitely asked for that to happen, so the direct  debits  
shouldve been  paid. 
Miss C said she discovered later that the direct  debits werent paid for two months. She 
nearly had her home insurance cancelled because  of this, and had problems with a health 
insurance plan too. She sent us letters that her home insurer sent to her, to say that her 
direct debit hadnt been paid because No account  is held, alternative  details are needed.  
And from her health insurer, to say that it hadnt  been able to collect  a payment.
Miss C went back  to the branch to sort this out. She said she had to pay about £650  out of 
her savings to pay off debts on this new account. That was to cover  bank  charges  that 
werent her fault. She said when she complained, NatWest paid her £50. She said that must  
mean it knew it had made a mistake, but it kept saying it didnt think  anything  was wrong. 
NatWest wrote to Miss C about the failed direct  debits. It said that her health insurance 
hadnt been paid in May. Shed paid money  into her account on the same day, so NatWest  
didnt explain what had gone wrong.  NatWest  also said that it could see that her home 
insurance also hadnt been  paid.  It said that this seemed to have been cancelled  by her 
insurer in the middle  of May. NatWest said it didnt  know why that happened, and asked 
Miss C to get in touch  with her home insurer to put the direct debit back  in place. 
NatWest didnt think these  direct debits had failed  because of something  it had done. But it 
accepted that it had made a mistake  about something else.  It didnt think  it had explained to 
Miss C that her old account  wasnt being  closed, it was being changed to an account that 
she didnt have to pay for instead. That sort of change doesnt affect direct debits, they 
should stay in place. NatWest was sorry that it hadnt explained  this process  fully to Miss C, 
and it paid her £50 to say sorry  for that. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that Miss C paid a little more into her 
account every month than she paid out in direct debits, but she also had to pay a monthly  
charge for having her old account,  and an overdraft fee. And she hadnt allowed for that. So 
over time those charges had added up. He thought these charges were  in line with the 
account terms and conditions which applied before Miss C changed the account type. So he 
didnt think NatWest had to pay that money back.  
Our adjudicator said that NatWest had now shown  us evidence that the direct debit to 
Miss Cs home insurer had been cancelled by the insurer. That didnt fit with what  was in the 
letter from that insurer, but it didnt seem likely  that NatWest had cancelled the insurance by 
mistake, because it was cancelled  well after the date of Miss Cs visit to the branch.
Ref: DRN42546262Our adjudicator also said that the payment for Miss Cs health  insurance failed because it 
wouldve taken her over her overdraft limit. He said that banks are allowed  to decline 
payments in circumstances like this. NatWests  system notes showed  that it hadnt  cancelled 
that direct  debit either. The insurer had cancelled that too. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that it was NatWests  fault these payments failed. 
Our adjudicator also considered what NatWest did when it downgraded Miss Cs account. 
NatWest had accepted that it couldve done more to make clear to Miss C that her old 
account wouldnt close and payments  would  stay as they were. Our adjudicator  thought that 
the £50 that NatWest had paid for that was in line with what  he wouldve awarded, so he 
wouldnt ask it to do any more.
Miss C didnt agree with that. She said that NatWest  hadnt written  to her about  all of this, it 
just sent her a mobile phone alert, which is why she went into the branch. And it didnt call 
her, although it said it would. Miss C said that her home insurance was almost  cancelled, 
and she missed a health  appointment  because she didnt want  to face them  after the recent  
problems. She repeated  that shed had to pay almost £650 in charges. She said that 
NatWest had made money  out of her, which she thought was a disgrace. She emphasised 
how stressful this had all been for her. 
Our adjudicator didnt  change his mind. He set out again why NatWest had paid Miss C £50. 
That wasnt  related to the failed direct debits. And he said that he couldnt  say that Miss Cs 
direct debits had failed because of something NatWest did. So although he appreciated that 
this was stressful for Miss C, he didnt  think NatWest caused that stress. And he still thought 
the charges on Miss Cs account were valid.  He didnt  think  he could  ask NatWest to pay 
more compensation  because  it hadnt called Miss C when  it said it would.
Miss C still didnt agree. She said that shed asked for her direct debits to be transferred, and 
thats what shouldve  happened. She said shed had to make extra  payments  to make up for 
those missing direct debits. She wanted  an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
Our adjudicator replied  that he didnt think that Miss C had been forced to make extra 
payments. Shed just had to send  some money  which shouldve  been collected earlier by 
direct debit, but wasnt. And then he passed this case to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Our adjudicator explained that he wouldnt be considering an additional  point that Miss C 
raised, about having been mis-sold a packaged bank account several years ago. He noted  
that she hadnt raised that with NatWest  as part of this complaint. Our adjudicator  was right to 
say that NatWest needs to be given a chance to respond to complaint points before our 
service can address them. And I think that this complaint may actually have been raised with 
our service  already, so we may not be able to look at that issue  again.  So, for the reasons our 
adjudicator mentioned, I wont  be considering  that issue here. Ill look at the issues  Miss C 
raised with her direct debits and the money she had to pay to clear the debt on her account.  
Ref: DRN42546263NatWest has shown  us its internal system  notes which say that the direct debits werent 
cancelled by it. It has also shown  us that Miss Cs account details, her sort code and account 
number, didnt change  when it downgraded her account. And, as our adjudicator said,  the 
timings of when these direct debits  were cancelled dont suggest  to me that this was done by 
mistake, or by accident, while Miss C was in the branch. 
I dont know for sure what went wrong  with these direct debit payments, but I havent seen 
anything that makes me think this was NatWests fault. I dont think  it has to do anything to 
make up for what went wrong with those payments.
Miss C also complained about the amount of money she had to pay to clear her account  
debt. Ive looked at Miss Cs account statements, and I think  that this debt has built up over 
time because Miss C was paying in slightly less to her account every  month  than was 
coming out. Ive explained that I cant consider here whether Miss C was mis-sold this 
account. And I havent seen anything to make  me think that these  charges  werent  applied  to 
her account  in line with the terms and conditions of her account. So I dont think that 
NatWest has to pay Miss C back this money.
Miss C said that NatWest had paid her £50, so it mustve accepted that it had done  
something wrong. But it wouldnt accept that the problem with the direct debits was its fault. 
NatWest has accepted that it couldve  done  a better job of explaining to Miss C that her old 
account wasnt going to close. Thats why it paid £50, just for that part of her complaint. 
I think NatWest  was right to make that payment. If it hadnt made that mistake,  and had told 
Miss C more clearly what was happening,  then Miss C may not have assumed that the 
problem with her direct  debits was caused  by this change  to her account.  
I dont think the problem with the direct debits was caused by something  NatWest did. But I 
think NatWest couldve  avoided some  of the confusion around this with a clearer  explanation 
of what was going on. I think that the payment  of £50 that NatWest  has paid is the right 
amount to make up for this. 
I know that Miss C will be disappointed, but I dont think NatWest has to do any more than it 
has done already.  For that reason, I dont think this complaint  should  be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4254626