K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about the way Portafina LLP handled a potential transfer of pension  
benefits he held with a former employer.
background
Portafina contacted Mr W in March 2017 and offered to review  his pension  provision. The 
contact appears to have  been unsolicited. He completed a form of authority allowing 
Portafina to get information from his former employer. Portafina wrote  to the pension scheme 
in March 2017, requesting a transfer  value quotation  so that they could advise whether 
transfer was the right option. The scheme  provided a transfer quotation in April 2017  but 
sent this to Mr W and not Portafina. This was valid for three months.  It seems  that Portafina  
didnt chase the response until August 2017.
Once Portafina had received the information, it arranged for a transfer value analysis  (TVAS) 
to be completed.  Portafina appear to have received the TVAS in October  2017,  but it didnt 
write to Mr W about it until February  2018.  
In March 2018, Mr W spoke with Portafina about the transfer.  He was told that this existing 
pension could provide an annual pension of around  £1,800 per year or a lump  sum of 
£8,000 with a pension  of around £1,250. The transfer value was around £43,500 and Mr W 
says that he noted  that it would take around  24 years to recover that value. A decision was 
taken not to transfer.
The pension scheme then wrote to Mr W in March  2018. It set out the benefits  that could be 
payable at age 60, later that year. These benefits were lower  than those  Portafina  had 
suggested. Mr W took advice from different advisers  and went  ahead with a transfer. The 
transfer value  received  was over £45,600 and so higher than that quoted in 2017.
Mr W complained.  He was unhappy  with the time Portafina had taken, the poor advice not to 
transfer out of the pension and the potential cost of an additional fee of £300 for a further 
transfer value.
Portafina didnt  uphold the complaint and it was referred to this service. It was considered  by 
an adjudicator  but he didnt  think that it should be upheld. He concluded, in summary;
Portafina had delayed but Mr W had not lost out due to the delay. This was because 
the later, actual,  transfer value was higher.
The fact that a second adviser had recommended the transfer when Portafina had 
not, didnt mean that its advice was wrong.
Ultimately,  Mr W hadnt paid a further £300 fee. So it wasnt fair to make  an award for 
this. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said that the adjudicators view was biased. He had to go to another  
adviser because  of Portafinas failures.  He also said that he had lost out on £300 because 
the scheme administrators waived this fee instead of making a payment to him for their 
failures. He also said that the increased transfer  value represented growth and that he could 
have achieved higher growth if he had transferred sooner and invested the funds.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN42026512my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint. Thats because  I agree  with the adjudicator and broadly with his 
reasoning.
I can understand Mr Ws upset. I agree that Portafina could have  handled the advice process 
more swiftly. But ultimately  Im not satisfied that Portafinas advice was wrong or that Mr W 
has lost out as a result  of any delay.
Mr W was looking  to transfer safeguarded  pension benefits. As the adjudicator  has said, the 
regulators guidance is clear that a transfer like this should only take place where it is 
suitable and in the consumers best interests.  There is also a presumption against  this type 
of transfer being suitable.  So its not surprising that Portafina didnt recommend it, that was 
their professional opinion  and there  is no definitive  answer. The fact that a second  adviser  
gave a different  view doesnt  mean  that Portafina  was wrong.
The transfer did take place within a year. The transfer value had increased by then and so I 
dont think Mr W lost out because of the delay. The growth achieved  wasnt insubstantial and 
was more than Mr W could  have  achieved in a conventional secure savings account. 
With regards to the additional fee of £300, whilst  Mr W was potentially exposed  to paying 
another fee this didnt happen. It appears  to have  been waived by the pensions 
administrator. But even if it was off-set as opposed  to being waived, it wasnt  paid.  So I dont 
think it would  be fair to make any award for this particularly when the transfer value 
increased.
Overall, I dont  think it would be fair to make an award. There was delay but Im not satisfied 
that Mr W has lost out as a result  of it. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I dont make an award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4202651