K821x#15complaint
Miss J has complained that she asked National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest)  to change  a
packaged bank  account, called a Select  Silver account, to a fee-free one, but it failed  to do 
so. She thinks that Natwest should refund her the fees she paid for the Select Silver account
and add interest. 
background
I previously sent Natwest and Miss J a provisional  decision on this complaint. That
provisional decision now forms part of this final decision and I have  attached a copy.
In my provisional decision,  I set out the background and circumstances of the complaint and
I explained why I thought  that Natwest had made a mistake and should compensate Miss J. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments  and evidence they wanted me to
consider before I made  a final decision.
The period  of time I gave for responses  has now passed. Miss J has told us that she has 
nothing further  to add, but Natwest has raised several further  points.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked into everything that Miss J and Natwest have told us or sent us
throughout the case, and I have  decided to uphold Miss Js complaint. Ill explain why. 
In response to my provisional decision,  Natwest made  six main  points. In outline, it said: 
1.There is no evidence that Miss J asked to change  her account in February  2017.
2.In December 2017, Miss J raised a query concerning a missing transaction and 
Natwest wrote to her to tell her that it had credited funds  to her Select Silver account, 
so she should  have known she still had it. 
3.In January 2018, it told Miss J over the telephone she still had a Select Silver 
account.
4.On several occasions during 2018,  Miss J queried some transaction  fees on her bank 
statements, so she should have seen the monthly  fees for the Select Silver account.
5.In March 2019, Miss J rang to question why she wasnt  receiving benefits from 
Natwests Reward scheme and it wrote to tell her she had a Select  silver account  
and wasnt eligible for these rewards.
6.In December 2017 and December 2018,  it sent Miss J annual  eligibility  statements 
for the Select Silver account which it thinks were sufficient to let her know  she still 
had that account.  
 I have considered each  of these in turn.
1. There is no evidence  of Miss Js request to change her account in February  2017
Ref: DRN42721662Natwest has highlighted this as being its first and foremost concern with my provisional  
decision. However, it doesnt seem to be considering Miss Js description of her visit to the 
branch as evidence.  
I acknowledged in my provisional  decision  that Natwest has no records  of this visit and I 
explained why I still found Miss Js description  convincing. This remains  my position.  I 
disagree with Natwest  that there is no evidence. I think Miss J has provided ample. 
Before commenting  on the rest of Natwests main points individually, I would like to highlight 
that they all relate to events which took place  after it had failed to act on Miss Js request to 
close her Select Silver account. I considered them collectively in my provisional decision 
when I said: 
Natwest has pointed  out to us that after February  2017, it wrote to Miss J several 
times and that its letters mentioned that she still had a Select Silver account  and it was 
charging her the monthly fee, although  this wasnt the main purpose  of the letters.  I 
fully accept that it did this. However,  I dont think that these letters  mitigate the mistake 
it made in not changing her account promptly when she asked it to do so.
 
This remains my considered position.  I dont think it was up to Miss J to correct  Natwests 
mistake. However, in fairness to Natwest,  I have looked at each event it has described to 
see if any of them mitigated its mistake. 
2. In December  2017,  it wrote to Miss J about  a missing transaction 
Natwest has sent us a copy of this letter.  It describes  how it was making a refund to Miss Js 
account. But it is entirely concerned with this refund. I dont think  it mitigated Natwests 
mistake. 
3. In January  2018, it told Miss J on the phone that she had a Select  Silver account  
Natwest hasnt given  us a great deal of information  about this call. It has mentioned  that a 
call was transferred between its benefits  team and its telephone banking team (it isnt clear 
which way, although  I dont think that is significant) and it advised Miss J that her account 
remained as a Select Silver. It hasnt told us what the call was about, how it responded or 
what it said to Miss J about her request to switch to a fee-free account. I dont think  the call 
mitigated Natwests mistake. 
4. Miss J checked her statements 
I accept that Natwest has shown Miss J did this. It has highlighted that it discussed  some 
transaction fees with Miss J, and again  I accept that it may well have done  this. However, it 
has inferred that Miss J should have queried  the monthly fees during these  conversations. I 
dont think this inference is fair. It seems to me that Miss J called  Natwest  about a particular 
issue (transaction fees) and I dont think it follows she should necessarily have raised  
another (Natwests  failure to switch  her to a fee-free  account) at the same  time. 
5. Miss Js discussion  about Natwests Reward  scheme
Natwest has sent us some of its notes  from this conversation. It seems that the main  gist of 
the discussion was Natwest  explaining to Miss J that she had never  held an account which 
Ref: DRN42721663qualified for the scheme. I dont think the conversation did enough to draw  Miss Js attention  
to the continuation of her Select Silver  account to mitigate Natwests  earlier  mistake.
6. The annual eligibility statements 
I accept that Natwest sent these.  It had to send them  to all customers  with packaged 
accounts to comply with some of the regulations under  which it operated. However,  unless 
Miss J was specifically seeking  to check what  Natwest had done since  her visit to the 
branch, (and I dont  think she was obliged to make  such checks) I dont think  they mitigated 
Natwests earlier failure to switch her to a fee-free account. 
Natwest has also mentioned that Miss J used its online banking service and so should have 
known through  this that it hadnt  switched her to a fee-free  account. However,  I do not agree 
that Miss J using this service mitigated Natwests earlier mistake.
So in summary,  I still consider that Natwest didnt change Miss Js Select  Silver
account to a fee-free  one when she asked it to. It follows therefore that Natwest should  
put things right for Miss J by paying  her appropriate  compensation.
putting things right
To put things right for Miss J, Natwest should put her into the financial position  she would
have been in if it had changed her Select Silver  to a fee-free account when she requested
the change. If it had done things correctly, it should have completed this change  during
March 2017.
Natwest should therefore:
refund  Miss J all the fees she paid for the Select Silver account from (and including) 
March 2017 onwards
add interest to each  of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year (simple) from the 
date Miss J paid the fee until the date it makes the refund (+).
(+) HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Natwest to take off tax from this interest. Natwest must
give Miss J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken if she asks for one.
I understand that when Natwest refunded Miss Js monthly fees for mis-selling  the 
Select Silver  account, then it may have included refunds for March and April 2017 in that
compensation. If it did so, and has appropriate records which  it can send  to Miss J, then it
may start this compensation  from May 2017 rather than March 2017.
Ref: DRN42721664my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am upholding Miss Js complaint against 
National Westminster Bank Plc. It should  now put things right for her by paying her the 
compensation I have  described. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2020. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN42721665Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Miss J has complained that National Westminster  Bank Plc (Natwest) didnt change a
packaged bank account, called a Select Silver account, to a fee-free one, when  she asked it
to. She thinks  that Natwest should  refund  her the fees she paid for the Select Silver account
and add interest.
background
The adjudicator who looked into Miss Js complaint previously didnt think  that she had made
a direct request to Natwest to change her Select Silver account. The adjudicator didnt
recommend that Natwest should give her any money back.
Miss J didnt agree with the adjudicators findings  and asked  for an ombudsman to review
her case. So it has come  to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked into everything that Miss J and Natwest  have  told us or sent us about the
complaint so far, and Ive provisionally decided to uphold  it. Ill explain why.
Both parties agree that in 2012 Natwest mis-sold the Select Silver account  to Miss J and that
it paid her fair compensation for this in February 2017.  They also agree that when Natwest
paid the compensation, it wrote to Miss J to say that if she wanted to change  the account,
she should telephone its sales team or contact any Natwest branch. However, they disagree
about what happened next.
Miss J has told us that as instructed in Natwests letter,  she went  into her local branch,
spoke to a cashier and asked  to change the account to a fee-free one. Shes  told us that she
took a letter with her to explain this and left it with the cashier, who agreed to change the
account for her.
Natwest has said that it didnt receive any instruction from Miss J to change  her account  until
March or April 2019. It has told us that it has checked its databases and cant  trace  the visit
which Miss J says she made to her local branch, or the letter she says she left with the
cashier.
The crux of the disagreement is therefore whether Miss J made the request to change  the
account in the way she has described during  February 2017, or didnt make any such
request until March or April 2019.
I fully accept that Natwest has searched its databases diligently, and that in most  situations
they may well contain reliable records of its interactions with its customers. However, I am
not convinced that its systems are always totally accurate, fully up-to-date, comprehensive
and free from occasional errors or omissions.
Miss J has been very consistent in her description of her discussion  with the cashier.
Amongst other things,  she has told us about the type of account  the cashier offered  her as a
replacement for the Select Silver one; that the cashier  said it would  take up to 14 days  to
change the account; and that the cashier said she could keep her account and personal
identification numbers.
Ref: DRN42721666When Natwest replied  to Miss Js original complaint, it said that it had inappropriately
provided her with the Select Silver account, and when coupled with her previous perception
that the account  had been wrong for her, it seems unlikely to me that she would have
wanted to keep  it. I think  that in the circumstance  its likely she would have wanted to change
it. Furthermore, although Natwest has said that before February  2017 Miss J had shown a
certain level of engagement with the Select Silver account, it has accepted that since  then
she has not utilised its benefits at all. Miss J has confirmed this. So it also seems to me
that she probably thought Natwest had changed it for her.
I cant  be certain what happened, but I think its probable that Miss J made  the visit she has
described to her local branch, told Natwest  that she wanted to change to a fee-free account
and justifiably  believed  that Natwest would  arrange this for her within  14 days. I dont know
exactly when Miss J made this request, but given the date of Natwests letter  to her, it seems
likely that it was in either late February or early March  2017.
Natwest has pointed out to us that after February 2017, it wrote to Miss J several times and
that its letters  mentioned that she still had a Select Silver account and it was charging her
the monthly fee, although  this wasnt  the main purpose of the letters.  I fully accept  that it did
this. However, I dont think that these  letters  mitigate the mistake it made  in not changing her
account promptly when she asked it to do so.
I dont know why Natwest  has no records of Miss Js visit to her branch, or of the letter  she
left with the cashier. She has told us that the branch  concerned has since closed and that
Natwest may have mislaid  the records as result  of this closure. I dont  know how likely this
may be, and I will leave  it entirely up to Natwest to investigate  this possibility if it so wishes. I
wont comment any further.
So in summary, I have  provisionally found that Natwest didnt change Miss Js Select Silver
account to a fee-free one when she asked it to. If I finally  decide this way, I will tell Natwest
to put thing  right for Miss J by paying her appropriate compensation.
putting things  right
To put things right for Miss J, Natwest should put her into the financial position she would
have been in if it had changed her Select Silver  to a fee-free account  when she requested
the change. If it had done  things correctly, it should have completed  this change during
March 2017.
Natwest should therefore:
refund Miss J all the fees she paid for the Select Silver account  from (and including)  March 
2017 onwards
add interest to each of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year (simple) from the date Miss J 
paid the fee until the date it makes  the refund (+).
(+) HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Natwest to take off tax from this interest. Natwest must
give Miss J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken if she asks for one.
I understand that when Natwest refunded Miss Js monthly fees for mis-selling  the Select
Silver account, then it may have included refunds for March and April 2017 in that
compensation. If it did so, and has appropriate records  which it can send to Miss J, then it
may start this compensation from May 2017  rather than March 2017.
Ref: DRN42721667my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I currently intend to uphold Miss Js complaint.  Should
I finally decide  this way, I will tell National Westminster Bank Plc to put things right for her by
paying the compensation  I have described  above.
But first, I invite both parties to respond to this provisional decision with any further
comments or arguments they wish to make, or any information they wish me to review.
I will consider any responses they send me by 27 June 2020 before making a final decision.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4272166