K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  moved one of his pension 
plans into a cash fund in 2015. Hes said that he wasnt aware this had happened,  and hes 
lost out financially as a result. 
 
background
 
In 2018 Mr H complained  to Prudential after he realised  his pension plan was invested in a 
cash fund. He said he didnt ask for his fund to be moved and he requested that any loss of 
growth in his fund be covered. 
 
Prudential responded to the complaint and explained that the fund was switched to the cash 
fund in 2015. This was done  as Mr H had been  looking to access  his pension and had 
requested a benefits pack. 
Prudential said Mr H had been  made  aware that this was going to happen at the time. And it 
said that it explained that should he wish to switch the fund again, hed need to let Prudential  
know. Prudential said it hadnt  heard  back from Mr H since  that point. 
 
Mr H was unhappy with this response so the complaint was referred to this service. Mr H 
also raised a new complaint point. He said he had two pension policies with Prudential  but 
was unhappy  the second plan had been set up as opposed to his funds being added  to the 
first policy.   
 
An investigator here reviewed the complaint but didnt think that Prudential had done  
anything wrong. In summary  he said:
Mr H had two pension  policies  with Prudential. In May 2015 he called to enquire 
about accessing one of these  plans as a cash lump sum. But after receiving the 
benefits pack, he didnt complete the paperwork.  
During a telephone call between Mr H and Prudential, Mr H was informed that his 
fund would be moved to cash  to preserve the valuation. And during this call he was 
told that should he want to re-invest the funds in the future, this can be requested via 
Prudential.
Mr H continued to receive statements showing the pension  was invested in a cash  
fund. 
Prudential had not been  given  the opportunity to respond to the complaint about  how 
Mr Hs plans were  set up and so the merits of this complaint hadnt been considered. 
 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He said he didnt think it was made clear in 
correspondence that the funds had been transferred into cash. And he was unhappy that the 
investigator had only listened to one phone call between him and Prudential.  
The investigator obtained a further  two calls from Prudential  and explained that having 
listened to them and reviewed the statements, his findings remained the same. The 
investigator said that Mr H was informed during a telephone call the funds would be moved 
to cash and that the documentation sent to Mr H did show the pension was held in cash. 
 
Ref: DRN45606232As the matter couldnt be resolved the complaint has been  passed to me to reach a final 
decision.  
my findings
 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
the investigator reached, and for mostly the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
 
I've listened  to the telephone calls provided  between Mr H and Prudential.  And, whilst  I 
appreciate Mr H may not recall what was discussed,  during one of the calls the Prudential 
representative explained to him that his fund would be switched  to cash. 
The representative said that this was being  done to safeguard the value  and it was in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. It was also explained that once that switch had 
been made it couldnt be cancelled. And the representative said that Mr H would need to call 
back if he wanted to switch back to the funds he was in previously. It appears that Mr H 
acknowledged what the representative  had said by saying okay at the end of the 
explanation. 
Prudential also sent Mr H a Personal Pension Quotation shortly after the calls,  on 25 May 
2015. This made it clear that the funds had been switched to cash and why that was. It said:
 
"we have switched the units under policies numbered  *** and *** into the cash fund 
under the terms  of the policy rules. This allows us to guarantee the benefits 
available.
Prudential has since confirmed that this letter contained an error as only one of the plans 
was switched to cash, the plan Mr H was intending to access. And that plan remained in that 
fund because it never received an instruction from Mr H to switch the funds out of cash.  
 
Ive also considered the statements that Mr H was sent annually after the fund was switched 
to cash.  I appreciate that he doesnt think these are clear as he didnt know what Ex Cash  
A meant. But I think it was clear from these statements  that one of his plans was invested 
across a range of funds and 100% of the other  plan was in the Ex cash  A fund. So I think 
this, along with what hed previously been  told about  the fund being moved to cash, ought to 
have alerted him to the fact that his plan was invested in a cash  fund.  
I do appreciate how strongly  Mr H feels about  this matter. But I can only ask Prudential  to do 
something to put matters  right if I think its made a mistake. However, having considered 
whats happened, I cant say that it has.  
Finally, I understand  that Mr H is concerned with the way in which his second policy was set 
up. Looking at the application details, I cant see that Prudential provided any advice in the 
arrangement of this plan.  So any concerns regarding the sale should be referred to the party  
that arranged  for the plan to be set up. 
Its worth  noting that Prudentials terms and conditions do state  that a separate  plan would 
be required  because a plan receiving regular contributions couldnt then receive  a transfer-
in; a new plan would  need to be set up for that. So I dont think Prudential made a mistake  
when setting the second plan up. And, it was the responsibility of the business that sold Mr H 
the plan to explain this to him. 
Ref: DRN45606233For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think that Prudential  have treated Mr H unfairly so Im 
not upholding the complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2020.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4560623