K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about his home insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc, because it accused 
him of fraud in relation  to a water leak claim hed made. It subsequently declined the claim 
and avoided the policy (treated it as though it hadnt  existed) from 21 September  2017   the 
date on which it says the fraud occurred.
background
Mr W lived in his home with his adult sons.  He married Mrs C in November 2016. Mrs C lived 
in a rented  property with her children. Following their marriage  Mrs C continued to rent her 
property but spent more time with Mr W at his home. In June 2017  Mrs C moved the majority 
of her and the childrens  belongings from her rented property to Mr Ws home. However,  for 
personal reasons  related to a tragic circumstance, Mrs C didnt give notice to the landlord  
and continued  renting  her former  home. Throughout  this time, and into August 2017, Mr W 
gave Mrs C money to assist with her living expenses.
On 3 August  2017 there was a leak at Mr Ws property,  now the combined family home, from 
the tank in the loft. The property was soaked and the family went to stay with various friends, 
occasionally utilising a hotel. Mr W made a claim to AXA which  it accepted. It organised 
contractors to strip and dry the property, although a dispute arose  about whether  or not 
Mr W had received authorisation from its contractors to dispose  of damaged contents items. 
And when  Mr W felt the repairs werent moving swiftly enough, he completed some  strip-out 
work himself. Mr W also appointed a loss assessor to act on his behalf.
Meanwhile, AXAs loss adjuster visited  the property on 22 August 2017.  Mr W told the 
adjuster that he had been looking for alternative accommodation for the family and had 
found one property at £450  per week, or one for £1,100 per month  for a six-month  let. On 
24 August 2017  the adjuster approved  the latter arrangement. The family then moved  to that 
property  which was Mrs Cs former home.
AXA asked the adjuster  for proof in respect of the accommodation costs. On 21 September 
Mr W forwarded an email to his loss assessor which purported to be from the landlord for the 
rental property, acknowledging the arrangement  made to let the property for six months at a 
cost of £1,100  per month. The assessor  asked for payment to be made  accordingly.  On 
3 October 2017 AXA paid Mr W (as part of a larger payment) £3,300, for three  months rent, 
with a further payment for the same being made  in December 2017.
In February 2018,  with reinstatement of the familys home having been  delayed a further 
email was provided, again purporting to be from the landlord. This confirmed that the rental 
period for the property the family  were  staying in had been  extended  for a further six months  
at the same  price as before.  AXA paid Mr W, £6,600.
However, AXA then became  aware that the signatory  of the emails was Mrs C, and the 
emails had come from her account. It asked Mr W to explain this. Mr W said that proof of 
where the family were staying had been asked for, but hed been unable to approach  the 
landlord in this respect as the landlord thought only Mrs C and her children were living there.  
He said the family renting that property was the most economical outcome and the least  
stressful/inconvenient option for the family.  He said the only reason for rental outlay, at that 
time, for that property was because they couldnt live in their home  due to the leak.
Ref: DRN44621892AXA considered what Mr W had said but told him it was avoiding  his policy, declining  his 
claim and would likely seek to recover the outlay it had spent on the claim to date, around 
£60,000. Mr W appealed  but AXA wasnt minded to change its view. AXAs solicitor issued a 
final response on its behalf in November 2018, prompting Mr W to complain to this service, 
and AXA then issued  a final response  directly  in January 2019. AXAs letter  confirmed the 
claim was being declined and the policy voided  from 21 September  2017  on the grounds of 
fraud (the date of the first email). This letter didnt refer to AXA seeking recovery  of its outlay 
but it did confirm  that AXA wouldnt be refunding any premium to Mr W.
Mr W, via his loss assessor, told our investigator that AXAs  actions were  heavy handed  
given Mr W had otherwise always acted honestly and only ever sought to minimise the claim 
costs. Mr Ws assessor said Mr W had been in a difficult position  and only created the 
documents to evidence  costs his policy entitled him to and because  evidence of a rental  
property was insisted  upon by AXA/its loss adjuster.  Mr W said he was also unhappy that 
AXA was still denying  it had given authorisation for contents items to be disposed of, that it 
was seeking to recover its claim outlay and that it had taken so long for it to investigate 
matters.
Our investigator felt AXA had fairly  and reasonably come to the view that Mr W had sought  
to gain a benefit he wasnt entitled to. He noted the dispute which had persisted about 
contents items (which  AXA hadnt  dealt with in its final response) but, in light of the 
avoidance, and as with AXAs recovery action, he didnt think  he could say it was unfair.
Mr Ws assessor said Mr W, during  the course of the family  staying  at Mrs Cs former  home,  
had paid Mrs C more  than the amount AXA had paid him for rent for that same period. It was 
felt, therefore, to be immaterial that Mr Ws payments hadnt coincided  with either AXAs  
payments for the rent or Mrs Cs rental payments to the landlord. What  had been claimed for 
had been paid. The assessor  asked  for an ombudsmans consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont intend to uphold 
this complaint.
There is no dispute that Mr W provided  fabricated documents  to AXA in order to persuade  it 
to pay him monies  equivalent to £1,100 per month for a twelve-month period. He claims his 
intentions in providing that information were good  and that he was only claiming  what  he was 
entitled to under the policy. AXA thinks Mr W wasnt entitled to claim these monies because 
the rent outlay  hadnt arisen because of the loss which Mr Ws home had suffered  it was a 
cost Mr W had always been  paying.
Considering the bank  account information provided, I cant say AXA is wrong in its view.  
Mrs C clearly rented the house prior to the leak in August 2017,  even  though she and her 
children hadnt  lived there  since June. The combined family then moved  there at the end of 
August/beginning of September 2017.  Mr W had passed money  to Mrs C, prior to June, 
throughout the period  they had lived together and continued to pay money to Mrs Cs 
account, either from his own account or a business account, following the combined family 
moving to Mrs Cs former home. But the lump  sums  AXA paid to Mr W for rent werent 
passed to Mrs C. 
Ref: DRN44621893I understand that being in the middle of a large loss claim  such  as was the case here, would 
have been confusing and stressful for the family, with Mr W having to manage  many different 
things  such as payments  from AXA that often covered  many  aspects of the claim, and that 
some costs were being incurred by Mr W which AXA hadnt yet reimbursed. But Mr W has 
sought to maintain throughout  that he was to pay rent for the property the family had moved 
to and that the emails were created to evidence  that outlay. I can understand AXAs 
reluctance to accept that argument when it isnt clear that Mr W actually paid the rental  
amount claimed.
If I accept that Mr W was paying Mrs C for many  things, at different times; sometimes  just to 
help with living expenses  as he was the main earner, sometimes  for claim items that AXA 
hadnt yet settled, sometimes just because the situation was complex and things had to be 
juggled and sometimes for rent, the fact Mr W may have paid more to Mrs C during the 
course of the family living in her former  home, than AXA has paid in rent, doesnt mean that 
Mr W has incurred  costs commensurate with the sum he claimed for and AXA paid. 
Mrs C rented the house before Mr Ws property suffered the leak. According to Mr Ws 
statements both he and Mrs C paid rent before the leak  and the bank account details show  
payments for rent never ceased. Moving  into that house may have been a better  option  for 
the family,  for personal reasons, than finding  somewhere  else and it may have been the best 
option for AXA, but Mr Ws actions gave  it no opportunity to consider its position  in that 
respect. AXA points  out in its correspondence  that whilst  Mr W felt he had no option but to 
create the emails, he did have the option  of being  honest with AXA,  but he chose not to. 
I cant ignore the fact that a contract  of insurance is based on good faith; the parties  are 
meant to deal with each  other with clean  hands   Im not persuaded Mr W did that here.
Furthermore, the premise of insurance  is that you cant  profit from an incident   that an 
insurance policy will cover  you for costs incurred due to the loss suffered which is covered 
by the policy.  In this instance the rent Mr W claimed for was actually always  a household 
expenditure. Mr W says that it would  have ceased  but for the incident. But given Mrs C had 
continued to pay the rent for several months  after moving her things into the combined family  
home suggests otherwise. For clarity, Mrs C was not subject to a rental  agreement  that 
required her to continue  to pay rent for those months  she could have ended the tenancy 
with a short amount of notice. I certainly  cant be satisfied that the rent would most likely 
have stopped. Which means  Mr W sought to claim from AXA money to cover costs  that 
werent generated due to the loss which had occurred at the family  home.  I think AXA acted 
fairly and reasonably when it avoided the policy  and declined  the claim.
AXAs actions mean that its liability for the water  damaged and claimed for items falls away. 
It is entitled to keep the premium and recover its outlay if it wishes  too. It did take AXA a 
while to complete its investigations and make its decisions  but I dont think  it caused  undue 
delays.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against AXA Insurance  UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2020.
Ref: DRN44621894Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4462189