K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited, trading as 
Argos Card Services,  is responsible for refunding  him the cost of a mobile  phone  he bought 
using his Argos store card.
His complaint is brought on his behalf  by a third party.
background
In October  2015 Mr M bought a mobile  phone online using his Argos store  card on a buy 
now pay later (BNPL)  arrangement. He paid the balance before the BNPL expiry date, so 
no interest was charged. Mr M says that around three  months later he experienced problems 
with the phone. He says that he contacted  Argos who told him to contact the phones 
manufacturer. The manufacturer asked him to return the phone  for repair   which  he had to 
do twice. When the phone  still didnt work, he says the manufacturer told him it was 
irreparable.
He wrote to Argos to complain and experienced poor service  in trying to resolve  his 
complaint. Argos acknowledged it had let him down.  It said Mr M should return  the phone 
and it offered him a gift card to the value  of the phone and it said it would refund the cost of 
him posting the phone  back to it.
Mr M did not accept the gift card, wanting  a cash refund.  His complaint  was passed to 
Argos Card Services (ACS). It did not uphold his complaint.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  He couldnt  
conclude there was enough  evidence  to show that the phone was faulty when  Mr M 
purchased it. In the absence of that evidence, he thought Argoss  offer was fair and 
reasonable and that ACS wasnt obliged to do anything more.
Mr M didnt  agree. His representative said, on his behalf and in summary, that:
Mr M didnt damage the phone. The contents  of his letters to Argos, and to this service,  
evidence that the phone was faulty.
Mr M returned the goods  which were  faulty so the business is legally obliged  to provide 
him with a full cash refund.
The purchase was made online,  so Mr M has additional rights.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.
Ref: DRN40019532Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
In certain circumstances, legislation (section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act) gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against  the supplier of goods or services or the provider of 
credit if theres been a breach  of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. Im only able 
to look at Mr Ms complaint from the aspect of what  ACS has done  not directly  what Argos  
has (or hasnt) done.
To be able to uphold  Mr Ms complaint about ACS, I must be satisfied that theres been  a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  by Argos and that ACSs response to his claim 
under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ms claim 
under section 75 as only a court  would  be able to do that.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of goods is satisfactory.  As such,  in order to uphold this complaint I would have 
to be persuaded  that the phone wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place.
Mr M says some  of the functions on his phone stopped  working  around  three  months after 
the phone  was supplied. And he says he contacted Argos who told him to contact the 
manufacturer. He then says he had to return the phone to the manufacturer twice for repairs,  
but the faults still remained. Our adjudicator  asked  Mr M, via his representative, to supply 
evidence of his communications  with the manufacturer and, in particular, evidence  that two 
repairs had been  attempted. This wasnt provided - Mr Ms representative simply referred us 
back to his letters. 
Ive considered these  carefully. Im sorry to disappoint  Mr M, but without the evidence  from 
the manufacturer, Ive not seen enough for me to conclude that the phone developed a fault 
within six months  and that ACS is therefore obliged to accept his rejection of the phone. 
From the evidence thats been supplied, the first time Mr M wrote to Argos  wasnt until 
August 2016  more than six months  after hed bought the phone. In order  to uphold  his 
complaint, Id need to see independent  evidence  of the fault. And Im afraid, despite our 
request, this hasnt been supplied.
This means  I cant  conclude theres  been a breach of contract.  So I dont conclude that ACS 
is obliged to provide Mr M with a cash refund.
Argos has acknowledged it didnt  provide  good  service when Mr M complained. To 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenienced hes been caused,  its offered to send 
him a gift card to the value of the phone. I understand why Mr M isnt happy with this offer, 
but I cant see that Argos has accepted that theres  been a breach of contract. And thats 
what is key to my review of this complaint. So this doesnt make  a difference to my 
conclusion.
Ref: DRN40019533my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019. 
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4001953