K821x#15complaint
Miss F is unhappy with how Adrian  Flux Insurance Services Group administered her car 
insurance policy. 
background
Miss F took out car insurance via her broker, Adrian Flux. When  the policy was due for 
renewal she didnt renew with the same insurer. She says it wasnt  made  clear  to her when 
the cover  ended. So, when she had an accident  on the day her insurance  was due to expire 
she was surprised to find that she wasnt insured. 
Miss F told us she had a letter to say there would be no cover  beyond  21 April 2019. Miss F 
says shes been  left in a position where she has been involved in accident where the other  
driver hasnt accepted  liability with no insurance.  Shes also received a ticket from the police.  
Adrian Flux issued a final response letter. They said the cover  ended at noon and this was 
clearly noted on the certificate of insurance. So they didnt think  it was unreasonable  for 
Miss F to read the letter together with the certificate of insurance. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Miss Fs complaint. She didnt  
think it was reasonable  to expect Miss F to cross  refer the letter confirming when the cover  
ended with the policy documentation.  She didnt think it was made clear in the letter that the 
cover would end at noon. She also noted that Adrian Flux didnt mention this when they 
spoke to Miss F over the phone. 
She recommended Adrian  Flux put things right by:
(a)considering Miss Fs claim as her previous insurer  would  as per the terms of the 
policy she had with them
(b)considering any consequential losses Miss F suffered as a result  of their error  such  
as the ticket she was issued  by the police (subject to Miss F providing evidence)
(c)Paying Miss F £250 for the worry, trouble and upset she experienced due to the error
Adrian Flux didnt agree. They said all the certificates explained the policy expired at noon, 
not midnight. So they didnt think it was fair for them  to be held completely responsible  for 
the situation.  
Miss F told us that Adrian  Flux had given her the wrong information about the quote during 
calls with them. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Miss Fs complaint because I dont think Adrian Flux has treated her fairly. I 
say that because: 
Ref: DRN47845552The letter sent to Miss F said, there  will be no insurance cover beyond  21/04/2019 . 
I dont think it was made sufficiently clear  at what point  in the day the insurance came 
to an end; 
Adrian Flux says Miss F had lots of other  documents which  specified  the time.  But 
the letter didnt  prompt her to check the schedule of insurance. And this also wasnt 
mentioned in the Frequently Asked Questions document.  So this doesnt  change my 
thoughts about the outcome of this complaint;
Miss F has lost out as a result of whats gone  wrong. She was involved in an accident 
about three hours after the policy expired and before her new policy started. I think 
that if the letter had made the time the cover  ended clearer, or prompted Miss F to 
check her certificate  of insurance, its unlikely shed have ended up in this position  as 
I think shed have  made the necessary  arrangements  before driving her car. So I 
think its fair for Adrian  Flux to consider her claim as her previous insurer would and 
pay any other consequential losses, subject to Miss F providing  sufficient evidence in 
support of this;
As the third party hasnt accepted  liability, and shes had a ticket from the police this 
has caused Miss F a lot of worry which is understandable as shes got no insurance. 
So I think its fair for Adrian Flux to pay her £250 compensation to reflect the trouble 
and upset caused. 
Ive considered whether further compensation is due because of the information 
Miss F was provided with during the calls about the quote. But I think  the 
compensation Im awarding fairly reflects  any inconvenience experienced as a result  
of what was said during the calls. So Im not increasing the overall compensation Im 
awarding. 
putting things right
Adrian Flux should  put things right by:
(a)Considering  Miss Fs claim as her previous insurer would  as per the terms of the 
policy she had with them
(b)Considering  any consequential losses Miss F suffered as a result  of their error  such 
as the ticket she was issued  by the police (subject to Miss F providing sufficient 
evidence)
(c)Paying Miss F £250 for the worry, trouble and upset she experienced due to the 
error. 
Ref: DRN47845553my final decision
Im upholding Miss Fs complaint about  Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group  and direct  
them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or reject  my decision before 
11 July 2019.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4784555