K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Southern Rock  Insurance Company cancelled his motor insurance 
policy from the start (voided it) and declined his claim. He wants it to reinstate  the policy and 
indemnify his claim. 
background
Mr H had a car accident and when Southern  Rock validated  the claim it found that he hadnt 
told it that hed had a motorcycle insurance policy cancelled previously. Southern Rock said 
Mr H had deliberately  or recklessly misrepresented  information so it voided the policy  and 
declined the claim. Mr H said hed not misrepresented as he didnt think the question asked 
referred to anything other than car insurance.  He also said that Southern  Rock  hadnt shown 
that the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  
Southern Rock had asked  a clear question about previous cancellations which Mr H had 
answered incorrectly. She thought it wouldnt have offered cover if the previous cancellation 
had been declared. So she thought it had reasonably voided the policy  and declined the 
claim. But she thought the misrepresentation hadnt been deliberate but that it had been 
reckless. 
Mr H reiterated that the question  he was asked wasnt about non-car insurance. He said he 
applied for the policy through  an online comparison site and the question he was asked 
differed to that Southern  Rock had provided.  Mr H asked for his complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this has been  a frustrating and financially  difficult experience for Mr H 
and his family. 
As the investigator  has explained, where a complaint arises from non-disclosure of 
information important  to an insurer, we take into account the relevant legislation.  We look to 
see that it asked  a clear  question when the policy was taken out. We check that the 
information given  would  affect whether a policy  was offered. And we check whether the 
informant has acted  carelessly or deliberately  in making the non-disclosure.
Mr H bought his policy through  an online comparison site. He was asked as part of the 
application whether any driver on the policy had ever had any insurance voided, amongst  
other things.  He was given the option of answering yes or no, and Mr H selected no. Ive 
seen two versions of the question asked by this comparison site. The wording varies slightly,  
but I think the meaning and intention remains the same.  The policy  Proposal  Form  also 
states the question asked  about previous insurance  history and any voidances and that Mr H 
had answered  no. But Mr H told us that hed had a previous motorcycle insurance policy 
voided.
Ref: DRN43772092I can understand that Mr H thought the question referred just to car insurance as this was 
what he was applying  for. But I think this was a misinterpretation.  I think  the question clearly  
refers to any type of insurance as it doesnt specify car insurance. I think Mr H should  have  
answered this question Yes on the online form. Or, when he noticed it answered incorrectly 
on the proposal form, he could have corrected  it. 
So I think Southern  Rock asked a clear  question about previous voidances  of insurance 
which Mr H answered incorrectly. I dont think Mr H took reasonable care to answer the 
question. Southern Rocks underwriter has told us that it wouldnt have offered cover  at all if 
it had known about the previous voidance. Its explained that it wouldnt have offered a policy 
through the online comparison  site if Mr H had declared the voidance.  So I think that, under 
the relevant legislation, Southern Rock was entitled to void the policy  and decline the claim. 
Southern Rock also said that the misrepresentation was at best reckless. I think  Mr H was 
aware of the previous voidance. He was asked a question about voidance of previous 
insurance. So I think he should have been reasonably aware that this information was 
important to the insurer. If Mr H was unsure about how to answer  the question, he could 
have asked for advice.  So I agree that his providing the incorrect answer was reckless.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.  
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4377209