K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited have sold him a washing 
machine of unsatisfactory quality. The glass door shattered during spin cycle and damaged  
clothes which it wont reimburse  him for. Hes also unhappy his credit file has been affected  
by this issue. 
background
Mr N has an account through Very (a trading name of Shop Direct). In September 2017 Mr N 
bought a washing machine. The machine  cost £249.99 and Mr N used a Buy Now Pay Later 
option. 
In January 2018, Mr N complained to Shop Direct as the glass door shattered during a wash  
cycle. The glass tore holes into the clothes Mr N was washing at the time. Shop Direct  
arranged a repair from the supplier, who came out and replaced the glass.  However, as 
glass remained in the washing  machine  Mr N raised concerns with Shop Direct. It initially  
made £100 compensation payment as a good will gesture. But Mr N wasnt happy and so 
complained. He also stopped making payments to his account. 
Shop Direct considered the complaint but said it was unable  to arrange collection of the 
washing machine  without confirmation  from the supplier. It also said it hadnt been  provided 
evidence of the damaged clothes and so it wasnt  willing  to pay any redress. A further £100 
compensation was offered following this.   
Not happy with that Mr N asked  us to get involved, and he sent us pictures of his damaged 
clothes (he hadnt been able to upload these to Shop Direct). We asked Shop Direct for its 
file and comments on the pictures.  But it didnt  think it was responsible for putting the matter 
right as that fell to the supplier. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint as section 75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974 
applied to the transaction which made Shop  Direct equally liable  as the supplier  for any 
misrepresentations or breach of contract. He was satisfied the glass  breaking  and repair  not 
being effective  meant  the contract  had been  breached. So he found Shop Direct  should 
replace the washing machine with a new one, pay £500 for the damaged  clothes and £100 
for the inconvenience  this matter had caused. However, he didnt find Shop Direct was 
wrong to record adverse  information as Mr N had stopped  repaying  his account which had 
been made up of other items. 
Mr N agreed the outcome.  But Shop  Direct didnt. It maintains  the supplier is responsible for 
this matter and that under  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 Mr N isnt entitled to a replacement 
as a repair has been carried out. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint 
for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. 
Mr N bought his goods from Shop Direct using a consumer credit  agreement.  Section 75 of 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 says
Ref: DRN42267122(1)If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within  section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation  to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the 
supplier in respect of a misrepresentation  or breach of contract, he shall have a like 
claim against the creditor who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor. 
This means  Mr N has a like claim against Shop Direct as he does against the supplier for a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. Mr N is complaining about the quality of the goods. If 
the goods arent of satisfactory quality,  that can amount to a breach of contract. 
Mr N had only acquired the washing machine four months prior to the glass shattering  during a 
wash cycle. Any reasonable person would expect a new washing machine to last much longer 
than that before breaking. And so Im satisfied  the goods werent  of satisfactory  quality which 
amounts to a breach of contract. 
Shop Direct arranged  for a repair  which is a remedy available  against the supplier. And if the 
repair had been  effective then I would say that was the end of the matter. But I understand the 
machine has been left with bits of glass in it which  could  cause further  damage in the future. 
Im therefore  not persuaded the repair has been effective. 
Mr N has a claim against the supplier for faulty  goods.  And a repair  or a replacement is an 
appropriate remedy. As a repair hasnt been  effective Im satisfied its appropriate to now look 
to replace the faulty goods. As Mr N has that claim against the supplier, he has a like claim 
against Shop Direct. Im therefore satisfied Shop Direct should provide Mr N with a new 
replacement washing machine of the same specification or as near as is reasonably possible. 
When the glass shattered Mr N had clothing going  through a wash  cycle. He has provided 
pictures of his clothes  which show a number of tears. I know  Shop Direct isnt persuaded the 
glass would  cause this damage, but it hasnt provided any persuasive  evidence that would 
cause me to doubt  Mr Ns testimony and photographs. I find it plausible  that if glass  entered a 
rotating drum, that contained clothes, damage is a likely consequence.  Im satisfied the 
damage caused to the clothes is a consequential loss resulting from the faulty goods. And so 
Mr N also has a claim for that damage against  the supplier and so a like claim against Shop 
Direct. 
Shop Direct contacted the supplier who had indicated someone  had already  been in contact 
about the damaged clothes. It transpired  that was Mr Ns partner. But Im given to understand 
the supplier made no compensation offer or payment to Mr N for the damage  caused. That 
means his like claim against Shop Direct remains  intact. 
Mr N has provided a number of pictures  of the damaged  clothing.  And I think it fair to say a 
lot of it was fairly expensive high street brands. Although Mr N hasnt been  able to provide 
receipts, and I wouldnt expect him to, he has provided screen shots showing comparable 
clothing and its cost, which has been provided to Shop  Direct.  Given the amount of clothes 
and that type,  Im satisfied a washing load of clothes is likely to be in the region of £500. I 
therefore find Shop Direct should  pay Mr N £500  so that he can replace the damaged  items. 
Shop Direct had offered  £100 compensation for the inconvenience this had caused (in 
addition to £100 it had already paid). Given that Mr N has been without a functioning  
washing machine,  and without items of clothing,  I find this amount to be fair. 
Ref: DRN42267123And for the sake  of completeness, as Mr N stopped making payments to his account it would 
be right for Shop Direct to record adverse information  about the operation  of the account; its 
required to record accurate information  about  it. Since then Shop Direct has sold the debt to 
another party. Mr N will need  to get in contact with that other party  in order to make 
arrangements for repaying the balance owed. 
how Shop Direct  need to put this right
Within 28 days of receiving Mr Ns acceptance of my decision I require Shop Direct to:
Replace Mr Ns washing  machine  with a new washing machine of the same  
specification or as near as is reasonably possible.
Pay Mr N £500 for the damaged clothes. 
Pay Mr N an additional £100 for the inconvenience this matter  has caused. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint. I require Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited  to compensate Mr N in accordance  with the above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4226712