K821x#15complaint
Mr Hs complaints about TenetConnect Services Limited (Tenet) concern the actions  of his 
former financial  adviser, Mr D of Dhanda Financial, in 2006 and 2007. Hes raised the 
following concerns:
In February 2006, Mr D told Mr H hed no longer receive commission  payments for 
his investments. Instead, he proposed  Mr H pay him a fee based on the value of the 
funds he managed. He agreed  and made payments until 2007 when Mr D suggested  
a new arrangement. 
In May 2007, Mr D said he had cash flow problems and proposed Mr H pay him a 
£25,000 lump sum in lieu of his fees for the next five years.  He agreed and made  the 
payment.
Mr H has since  discovered Mr D continued  to receive substantial  commission from his 
investments for a long time after this. Dhanda Financial was an appointed representative of 
Tenet at the time and he thinks it should be held responsible for Mr Ds actions.
This decision relates only to point  1 above.  Ive addressed point 2 in a separate  decision 
under a different complaint reference.
background
Mr H first complained to Tenet in March 2014. His complaint letter raised  four issues,  
including the two above. Some  of the other issues he raised related to a complex  fraud by 
Mr D, for which he was later convicted and imprisoned, of which he was one of a number of 
victims. Tenets response dated 12 May 2014 directly referred to point 2 above, but not point 
1.
 
Mr H then referred another  aspect of his original  complaint to us, but not points 1 and 2 
above. In October  2016, one of my colleagues  concluded we couldnt look at that complaint  
because it wasnt referred to us within six months  of Tenets response and he wasnt  
satisfied the delay was due to exceptional circumstances.
More recently, Tenet corresponded further  on Mr Hs complaint covering points 1 and 2. Its 
first response was dated 9 March 2017.  In respect  of point 1, it said he should  have realised  
he was paying  commission  charges  on his investments as well as Mr Ds fees and 
complained sooner. In respect of point 2, it essentially repeated what it had said in 2014   
that this involved  a personal loan and was a private arrangement for which  it wasnt  
responsible.
After further correspondence from Mr H, Tenet wrote again on 9 June 2017. It said its 
position on point  2 hadnt changed. But in respect  of point 1, it accepted he hadnt  received 
valuation statements and agreed to uphold this part of the complaint. It offered  to refund the 
commission payments Mr H had paid on one of his investments between  2006 and 2007 
with interest.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with this response and referred  his concerns to us. His complaint form 
is dated 15 September 2017 and specifically refers  to points 1 and 2.
Ref: DRN49197172Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. Rather  than basing  compensation 
on a refund of commission deducted  from Mr Hs investments, to put things right he felt 
Tenet should refund all the monthly  fees Mr H paid Mr D between February 2006 and the 
start of the new arrangement in May 2007 with interest.
Tenet didnt  accept the investigators assessment, making the following key points:
Mr H knowingly entered into the fee agreement with Mr D and presumably wouldnt  
have complained if commission had stopped being deducted from his investments as 
promised.
Mr H held a number  of investments. After speaking to the providers, only AXA 
confirmed deductions for commission could have  been stopped with the money 
remaining in Mr Hs investment. The other  providers said the deductions  would still 
have been made and they would have kept the money. So the new arrangement only 
meant Mr H paid extra charges on the AXA bond. The fee he paid Mr D was for all of 
his investments. If compensation is to be based  on a refund of fees, it should only 
involve the part of the fee covering the AXA bond.
Theres insufficient evidence to show Mr D promised  fund management or other 
services he wasnt authorised to provide. The fee agreements of Mr Ds that it has on 
file dont show he was offering fund management services. And theres no evidence, 
for example  regular  fund switches, to show he carried  out this service for Mr H.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I thought this complaint should be 
upheld. An extract is attached and forms part of this decision. Both Mr H and Tenet  
contacted us to say they had nothing further  to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party had anything  to add to 
my provisional decision, my conclusions havent changed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
If Mr H accepts my decision, TenetConnect Services Limited must pay him compensation 
calculated using the method set out in my provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN49197173extract from provisional decision:
my provisional  findings
jurisdiction
Tenets correspondence  appears to show it consents to us looking into Mr Hs complaint covering 
point 1 above,  but Im addressing this issue for the sake of completeness. 
The rules I must follow  to decide whether I can look at a complaint  are set out in the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) rules,  published as part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook.  The rules  
say that, without the consent  of the business involved, we cant  consider a complaint  that is brought  to 
us outside set time limits. DISP 2.8.2 says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint  if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service . . . more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent 
the complainant  its final response  or redress determination or summary resolution 
communication
Ive seen nothing to indicate  Tenet addressed  point  1 of Mr Hs complaint in 2014 or at any other time 
before its response  dated 9 March 2017.  Mr H didnt refer his complaint to us within six months of this 
letter. But in the case of complaint point 1 at least, Im satisfied  the second response dated  9 June  
2017 superseded this. Tenets position changed substantially and the letter  appeared (to Mr H at 
least) to extend the deadline, saying  a complaint  had to be pursued within six months  of the date it 
was issued.  Mr H did contact  us about this complaint point  within six months of the June 2017 letter 
and Im satisfied this means he complained in time.
putting things  right
By paying a fee to his adviser  at the same time as money was being deducted from at least  one of his 
investments to cover commission payments to the adviser, Mr H was effectively  being double charged 
without realising it. Tenet seems to accept  that wasnt appropriate and the issue I need to consider  is 
how to put things  right.  The main aim of any award I make is to return Mr H (as close as possible) to 
the position hed be in but for the inappropriate actions of Mr D.
The evidence  Ive seen  indicates Mr H began paying  a regular fee to M Dhanda in February 2006 and 
continued to do so until May 2007 when he paid a lump  sum of £25,000 in lieu of future  fees. Mr H 
has provided  bank statements that appear to show  the following payments were  made to Mr D by 
standing order:
£250  on 1 February 2006;
£500  on 1 March  2006;
£600  on 3 April 2006;
£600  on 2 May 2006;
£600  on 1 June 2006;
£600  on 3 July 2006;
£600  on 1 August  2006;
£600  on 2 January 2007;
£600  on 1 February 2007;
£600  on 1 March  2007;
£600  on 2 April 2007; and
£680  on 1 May 2007.
I dont currently have  statements covering  the period from September  to December 2006. But given 
what Mr H has told us and the fact the payments were made by regular  standing order,  Ive currently 
no reason to think he didnt make an additional four monthly  payments of £600 each during that 
period. And that he therefore paid total regular  fees amounting to £9,230 during  this time. If Tenet 
Ref: DRN49197174hasnt seen these statements, it can ask our investigator for copies before responding to this 
provisional decision  if it wishes.
Before he suggested otherwise, theres nothing to suggest Mr H was dissatisfied  with the original  
arrangement, whereby money was deducted  from his investments to cover Mr Ds commission 
payments. Mr H says Mr D misled him to believe these  deductions would no longer be made once he 
started paying a fee and I find his recollection compelling. It certainly seems unlikely he would have 
willingly agreed to pay twice  if he didnt  need to. 
If Mr D hadnt  misled him about what he was proposing and how it would work, I think  its most likely 
Mr H would have opted to continue with the original  arrangement.  As Tenet has pointed  out, its not 
clear Mr D was offering any additional services that would particularly benefit  Mr H in exchange for his 
fee. Comparatively speaking, Mr H had relatively  straightforward arrangements  and, in the absence of 
evidence he planned  to do anything  more  than provide occasional reviews of his investments,  the 
monthly fee seems excessive  for what  effectively  appears to have  been a retainer. And given most of 
the investment  providers  have  confirmed deductions would have continued whether or not 
commission was paid to Mr D, I cant see that it would have  benefitted him to change  the original 
arrangement. 
On balance and taking everything into account,  I currently think Tenet  should pay Mr H compensation 
of A + B, where:
A = a full refund of each monthly fee paid to Mr D between February  2006 and May 2007, 
when he paid the £25,000 lump sum to cover future fees;
B = simple  interest at 8% per year on each amount in A from the date the fee was paid to the 
date compensation is paid. The interest is to compensate Mr H for not having  use of his 
money in the interim.  Income tax may be payable on the interest.
Finally, in answer to some of the points that have been raised while weve been considering this 
complaint:
I think its more  appropriate to base redress on fee payments rather than commission for the 
reasons Ive explained. Even if I felt it should be based  on commission payments, I wouldnt 
agree Tenets offer had been calculated correctly. To truly put Mr H back into the right 
position, it would be necessary to compare the value of his investments to the value they 
would have  achieved if commission payments  had been stopped and any money  deducted for 
this purpose had remained  invested. 
I think its appropriate  to refund all fees rather than just the portion paid in respect of the AXA 
bond. As Ive explained, if Mr D hadnt misled Mr H about  how things would work, I dont think 
hed have  agreed to pay a fee at all.
Im aware Mr H has recovered some of the money he gave  Mr D from the courts, but I 
understand this was paid for the subsequent fraud rather  than the fees paid between  2006 
and 2007. So I dont think its appropriate for Tenet to adjust the redress to take account of 
these payments and its email of 18 December 2017 appears to confirm it accepts this point.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint. I currently think TenetConnect  
Services Limited should pay Mr H compensation calculated using the method set out above.
Ref: DRN4919717