K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Fluent Money Limited  gave  them  incorrect advice about taking 
out a new secured loan to pay their mortgage arrears and unsecured debts. 
background
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage was in arrears. They had other debts and some  defaults. They  
wanted to move house and asked Fluent Money  for advice about  how to improve  their credit  
score and the likelihood of a successful mortgage  application.
Fluent Money recommended that they take out a second charge mortgage. The funds were  
used to pay the arrears  on their existing mortgage and other  debts. Mr and Mrs M say 
theyve since found out that theyre unlikely to get a mortgage until the arrears have been 
cleared for 12 months, so they are still unable to move home. And they didnt need to borrow 
as much as Fluent Money recommended as they didnt need to repay  all of the other  debts. 
Mr and Mrs M say if theyd known theyd have to wait 12 months they could  have borrowed 
less and paid the unsecured debts from their own funds. Mr and Mrs M say Fluent Money 
recommended taking out a new loan so that it could benefit from the fees. They  also say 
they werent told about the fees.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld,  saying:
Mr and Mrs M say Fluent Money  should have told them potential mortgage  lenders 
would require them to have cleared the arrears for at least 12 months. However, each 
lender has difference policies. 
Fluent Money didnt  give any guarantees that theyd be able to move.  It said the new 
loan would tidy up their credit which would be favourable.
while Mr and Mrs M were told by another adviser their only problem was the arrears, its 
not clear this would  have been  the case  if they still had other outstanding debts and 
defaults.
if Mr and Mrs M had raised funds to repay their debts themselves, this would have taken 
about three to four months. This wasnt  suitable  for Mr and Mrs M as they want to move 
as soon as possible.  And the advice  to clear their mobile phone debts wasnt  necessarily 
wrong as they wanted to improve their credit  position. 
using the secured  loan to repay other  debts reduced Mr and Mrs Ms monthly outgoings. 
So they werent financially disadvantaged.  While  there would  be more interest to pay 
over the mortgage  term, they intend  to sell the property and repay the loan in the near 
future. 
the fees were  explained to Mr and Mrs M before they took out the loan.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree. Mrs M said theyd been disadvantaged by Fluent Moneys  
advice. She said they now have a large  loan commitment.  
Ref: DRN47590612my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs M have  a number of complaints about the advice  they were  given  by Fluent  
Money. After  considering  what theyve said, I dont think Fluent Moneys  advice was 
unsuitable. 
Mr and Mrs M wanted to improve their chances  of getting a mortgage as they wanted to 
move house.  Mr and Mrs M had mortgage  arrears, past defaults with outstanding  balances 
and missed unsecured  credit payments. Their credit score was poor.  Fluent Money 
recommended that they take out a 10 year second charge mortgage loan for £13,000, plus 
fees, and use the funds  to pay their mortgage arrears  and other debts.
The loan application, signed by Mr and Mrs M, gave  payment instructions to the lender for 
the consolidated debts.  This included £1,770 to their existing mortgage lender for their 
arrears, £6,260 to their existing mortgage lender to repay their flexible mortgage account,  
£1,180 to a credit card account  (which  was in default)  and £610  to an account  with a mobile 
phone provider (which  was also in default). 
Mr and Mrs M say theyve  since found out that some lenders have criteria about mortgage 
payments being  up to date for a minimum period, which means they still cant get a 
mortgage as soon as they want.  And some lenders arent concerned about defaulted mobile 
phone accounts,  so they could have borrowed less. 
Ive listened to Mrs Ms calls with Fluent Money.  Fluent Moneys adviser  told Mrs M that 
lenders have different criteria and would view the defaults and arrears differently. He said 
the longer the mortgage is shown  as up to date the better. He said they might have to wait 
six months  or even  12 months  after clearing  the arrears rather than the three months 
they were hoping for. I cant see that Fluent Money misled Mr and Mrs M about when theyd 
be able to apply  for a new mortgage. I dont think it was wrong  to recommend that they pay 
the arrears and defaulted accounts as soon as possible.
Mr and Mrs M say they were financially disadvantaged as they now have a large loan. But 
the purpose of the loan was to repay  other debts. After taking out the loan Mr and Mrs Ms 
monthly outgoings reduced. While repaying  debts  over 10 years is more  expensive than 
repaying them sooner,  Mr and Mrs M intend to sell their house and repay the loan in the 
near future.  
Ive also listened  to the call between Mrs M and Fluent Money when  it explained that a £995  
lender fee and a £1,430  broker fee would be added to the loan. The adviser said this cost 
was included in the monthly  payment  although it could be paid separately if they chose. 
Mrs M confirmed with Fluent Money that these  fees would be payable if the loan was repaid 
in the near future. Fluent Money said theres  an early repayment charge  equal to two months  
interest if the loan is repaid early in full. These fees were also set out in the mortgage offer. I 
think Mr and Mrs M were  made aware of the fees.
Ref: DRN47590613Im sorry  that Mr and Mrs M werent able to find a mortgage so that they could move  home  
when they wanted to. But I dont  think they were misled  by Fluent Money.  Given Mr and 
Mrs Ms objectives, I dont think the advice  it gave was unsuitable. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 August 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4759061