K821x#15complaint
Mrs W says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL)  mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy in 1996.
Although the policy was sold by another business, FICL has accepted  responsibility for the 
sale and this complaint.  So Ive referred  to FICL during this decision.
background
The PPI policy was sold to Mrs W when she applied for a store card most likely  while  
shopping. The PPI policy was designed  to pay a monthly benefit  if Mrs W became too unwell 
to work or lost her job. The policy has now been  cancelled but FICL  has told us that while  it 
was active on Mrs Ws account she was charged total PPI premiums of £1,191.58.
Our adjudicator thought Mrs Ws complaint  should not be upheld.  Mrs W disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings,  so the complaint was passed  to me.
In June 2019 I issued my provisional findings  on this complaint and invited  both parties to 
comment and send  me any additional evidence  they wanted me to think  about.  A copy  of my 
provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I was intending  to uphold Mrs Ws complaint, my main  
reasons were:
I was not persuaded it was most likely  Mrs W was given a fair choice about whether 
to buy the PPI policy.
I thought Mrs W could  have continued  to meet her monthly  repayments  comfortably 
even without the PPI policy.  So if Mrs W had been  made aware of the cost of the 
policy I didnt think shed have  thought  it good  value  to her and would not have 
bought it.
Mrs W has told us she has nothing further to add.
FICL has not responded to my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ws case. 
Neither FICL  nor Mrs W have replied  with any new evidence or points for me to consider. 
Therefore I see no reason  to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision in 
June 2019.
Ref: DRN49780942what FICL must do to put things right 
FICL should put Mrs W in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs W wouldve owed when the account was closed if 
the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs W owed when she closed the 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs W would have 
owed when she closed the account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs W would have owed each month without PPI        
Mrs W paid more than enough  to clear the balance,  FICL should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Mrs W paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs W wouldve owed  FICL  something on the credit  card. The interest rate should  
be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs W what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give    
Mrs W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I uphold Mrs Ws complaint 
and direct Financial Insurance Company Limited  to pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019. 
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN49780943copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs W says Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold  her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy in 1996.
Although the policy was sold by another business, FICL has accepted responsibility  for the sale and 
this complaint. So Ive referred to FICL during this decision.
background
The PPI policy was sold to Mrs W when  she applied  for a store  card most likely while  shopping. The 
PPI policy  was designed to pay a monthly benefit  if Mrs W became too unwell to work or lost her job. 
The policy has now been cancelled  but FICL  has told us that while it was active on Mrs Ws account  
she was charged  total PPI premiums of £1,191.58.
Our adjudicator thought Mrs Ws complaint should not be upheld. Mrs W disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings, so the complaint  has been passed to me.
Ref: DRN49780944my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case.  
Having done so I am intending to uphold Mrs Ws complaint for two reasons, Ill explain these.
FICL has been able to show  us a copy of the original  credit agreement signed  by Mrs W in March  
1996.
Looking at it carefully  it appears to have been completed by two different people or at least using  two 
different pens. Mrs Ws details have been carefully completed on the left hand side of the application 
form. The PPI section  of the form in the centre appears to have been completed separately.  There is 
a statement that begins, Yes, I want my account covered by Payment Protection. It looks like the 
word NO has been written beside this statement  but then crossed  out and replaced with the word  
YES in a different  hand  (or pen) to the rest of the form.
There may be good reason  for the way the form has been completed. For instance it could be that the 
correction to the PPI section was made with Mrs Ws agreement.  But Id consider it good practice to 
ask the consumer to initial or sign any corrections made to a credit agreement and I cant  see this was 
done.
Taking everything into account Im not persuaded that it is most likely Mrs W was given a fair choice 
about whether to buy the PPI policy.
I could uphold Mrs Ws complaint on this point alone but I also have concerns  that the cost of the 
policy wasnt made  clear and that if it had been, Mrs W would not have agreed to buy the policy.
I say this because Mrs W has told us her employer  would  have paid her a good level of sick pay if she 
had become too unwell to work. Mrs W has told us that her employer also provided her with 
Permanent Health Insurance (PHI).  The PHI policy  meant that even when her sick pay ended,  Mrs W 
would receive 75% of her salary until she returned to work. Given her employer and the nature of the 
industry she was employed in, I think it is likely Mrs W did enjoy these  benefits.
Taking this into account, I think  Mrs W could have continued to meet her monthly repayments 
comfortably even without the PPI policy. So if Mrs W had been made  aware of the cost of the policy I 
dont think shed have  thought it good value  to her and would not have bought it.
Mrs W has lost out because  of FICLs failings when  it sold her the policy. Ive next looked  at what it 
needs to do to put things  right.
what FICL must do to put things right 
FICL should put Mrs W in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
E. FICL should find out how much  Mrs W wouldve owed when the account  was closed if the policy 
hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges. 
FICL should then refund the difference between what Mrs W owed when  she closed the account 
and what she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
Ref: DRN49780945If Mrs W made a successful  claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes her.  
F. FICL should add simple  interest on the difference between what  Mrs W would have  owed when 
she closed the account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest rate 
should 8% a year.
G. If  when  FICL works out what Mrs W would  have owed each month without PPI        Mrs W 
paid more than enough to clear the balance, FICL  should also pay simple interest on the extra  
Mrs W paid. And it should  carry  on paying  interest until the point when Mrs W wouldve owed 
FICL something on the credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
H. FICL should tell Mrs W what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give    Mrs W a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
intending to uphold Mrs Ws complaint and direct Financial Insurance Company Limited to pay 
compensation as set out above. 
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4978094