K820x#14complaint
Mr H complained because  he felt Tesco Personal  Finance  PLC unfairly  took a payment via 
direct debit to pay his credit card balance.
background
Mr H has a credit card with Tesco. The full outstanding balance  on the account is collected 
by direct debit each month.
The August  statement said the full balance  of £300.97 would be collected  on 27 August, or 
shortly after.  On 29 August Tesco wrote  to Mr H because the direct debit had been returned 
unpaid. Tesco explained that it had re-requested the direct debit from Mr Hs bank  and that it 
should receive the funds within 10 working  days. The letter  also suggested that:
Mr H pay at least the minimum  payment  as soon as possible in order to prevent further 
charges; and
if he did make a payment, to cancel the direct  debit with his bank to avoid making two 
payments.
On 31 August Mr H paid the £300.97 manually. On 6 September Tesco received another  
£300.97 via the direct debit.
Mr H complained to Tesco. He felt it shouldnt have  re-requested the direct debit for £300.97 
because the manual payment he made meant he didnt  owe that amount. He also felt Tesco 
should have refunded the overpaid  amount  to him when it became aware of the situation. 
Tesco didnt  think it had done anything wrong as it had explained to Mr H what would 
happen because  of the original returned  direct debit  and what he should do if he made a 
separate payment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs main argument centres on the fact that on 6 September  £300.97  wasnt owed so 
Tesco shouldnt have  re-requested the direct debit. He feels  that Tescos automated system 
should have checked to see if the payment was still due, and it should  only have re-
requested the payment if it was due. He says if Tesco had done this, as they do when 
presenting the original  direct debit, this situation would not have arisen.
When deciding complaints I rarely need  to know why something happened  I normally  just 
need to see that something did happen,  whether that was a businesss fault, and what  
impact that had on the consumer. I also dont have the power to dictate to businesses  what  
procedures and practices they should adopt.  Essentially,  thats a commercial  decision each 
business is free to make. However, in saying  that, if I think in following a particular procedure 
or practice  a business treats a customer unfairly,  then I might ask it to put things right eg by 
paying compensation.
So with that in mind, although Ive noted Mr Hs thoughts about asking Tesco why its system 
doesnt check before re-requesting  the direct debit to see if the payment was still due, I dont 
believe I need to know this in order to decide this complaint.
Ref: DRN47512492In order to treat him fairly Tesco  should give Mr H advanced notice confirming when a 
payment will be taken  from his account and how much it will be. Im satisfied the August 
credit card statement and the letter dated 29 August fulfilled this requirement. As I 
understand it, the process of Tesco re-requesting the direct debit had already started by the 
time Mr H made the manual payment. So, as was intimated in the 29 August letter, the 
manual payment Mr H made wasnt enough to stop the direct debit from being re-requested.  
He needed to also cancel the direct debit with his bank  to avoid double payment.
Mr H has also argued that irrespective of how and why the direct  debit was re-requested 
Tesco should have  refunded the money once it knew it had received double  payment. If an 
error is made in the payment of a direct  debit, irrespective of whether that error was made  by 
the organisation claiming the payment  or the bank or building  society  making the payment, 
its the bank/building societys responsibility to fully and immediately refund of the amount 
paid. Tesco said that if Mr H had asked it might have been  able to return  the manual 
payment he made by card,  but it told us that when Mr H first raised the matter  he said he 
wasnt too bothered  about a refund and he was more concerned  that his debit card had been 
declined.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Tesco treated Mr H unfairly. It told him it was going to re-
request the direct  debit and what he needed  to do to prevent two payments being  taken. And 
as the direct debit hadnt been cancelled it claimed the money.  Im therefore not going to 
uphold this complaint.
I appreciate it may not be of any comfort  to Mr H, but even if I had concluded that Tesco had 
treated him unfairly I still wouldnt have upheld this complaint. Thats  because  I dont punish 
or fine businesses simply because they do something wrong. If a business treats a 
consumer unfairly then I consider awarding compensation for financial losses, distress or 
inconvenience. But Im not persuaded based  on what  Ive seen here that Mr H suffered any 
financial loss, or any distress or inconvenience that warrants compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4751249