K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix). Hes unhappy Phoenix has said his 
annuity will be reduced following an error made  when it was originally  set up. 
background
Using the proceeds from his personal pension policy (PPP), Mr O chose to purchase an 
annuity with Phoenix. The annuity started  5 May 2017 and his first annuity  payment was 
made the following month.
Following a review Phoenix identified  an error  had been made when Mr Os annuity  was set 
up. Phoenix wrote to Mr O to explain what happened and in summary said:
Mr Os annuity had been overpaid  since it started  and it was sorry for any 
inconvenience caused
Mr O was receiving  a gross annual annuity of £6,791.40 in monthly instalments when 
he should be receiving £6,220.32
to correct the error it intended to make  the necessary reductions to Mr Os monthly 
annuity payment  from 5 September  2018.  However it intended to delay the reduction 
for two months so Mr O could consider the effect  of the reduction on any of his 
regular outgoings  
it needed to recover the overpayments made to Mr O since 5 June 2017  which  
totalled £392.67 so far. And it confirmed  this sum would increase by the time it 
reduced Mr Os annuity on 5 September 2018
Mr O should let it know if he would  prefer Phoenix to reduce his annuity payments 
sooner. Otherwise  itd write to him again to confirm the remaining balance after the 
two additional  payments  hed have received
Further to receiving Phoenixs letter Mr O complained. He said he wasnt happy about his 
annuity being reduced or having to repay  the overpayments made to him. Mr O explained 
that hed accepted the figures  originally quoted to him as his income  for life and had based 
his financial decisions on this.
Phoenix later responded to Mr Os complaint and in summary said:
since its previous letter to Mr O it had decided not to ask for the overpayments to be 
repaid 
it still intended to reduce  Mr Os annuity as outlined in previous correspondence  
Mr O remained  unhappy with Phoenixs response. And following a number of calls with Mr O 
and his financial adviser, Phoenix later sent Mr O its final response  to his complaint. In 
summary Phoenix said:
the annuity quotations Mr O received included Guaranteed Annuity rates  (GARs) that 
were part of Mr Os PPP
the GARs were  only payable if Mr O took an annuity with Phoenix and wouldve been 
lost if Mr O had transferred his PPP away from Phoenix
having checked Mr Os PPP it could see that the purchase money  on it was 
£70,342.05 which was the amount Mr O wouldve had to give another  provider for 
comparison quotations
Ref: DRN42384772because of the GARs,  the actual cost for Phoenix to provide  the annuity  to Mr O was 
£157,097.73. So Phoenix thought it was unlikely Mr O wouldve got a better or  
comparable annuity rate with a different provider
its error had resulted  in Mr O receiving a higher annuity than he shouldve,  and so 
hed been overpaid.  Because the error  was Phoenixs fault it wouldnt be asking Mr O 
to repay  any money to it
it wasnt able to continue paying  Mr Os annuity  at the higher  rate and needed to 
correct the amount  he was being  paid
the first amended  annuity payment would be made from March 2019 and would be 
£518.36 per month (gross)
for trouble and upset caused  by its error  Phoenix offered £400 compensation
Unhappy with Phoenixs response  Mr O referred  his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and in summary said:
she thought  it was fair for Phoenix to amend Mr Os annuity amount so he was 
receiving what he was entitled  to
she felt Phoenixs offer of compensation for what happened was fair 
Mr O responded to our investigator and in summary said:
he was disappointed and couldnt  understand why Phoenix was allowed to make an 
error and penalise him for it
he felt the reduction in his annuity was a significant penalty
Phoenix should be held to the contract  originally agreed to when his annuity  was set 
up
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
direct Phoenix to do anything further.  Ill explain why. But before I do, I should  emphasise 
that while Ive taken note of the correspondence, arguments and comments made by both 
parties, I have limited my response to what I consider to be the issues  central to this 
complaint. 
I should firstly say I have  real sympathy  for Mr O. I can appreciate  it will have been deeply 
frustrating to learn Phoenix made  an error when it originally set up his annuity. And that it will 
have been even more concerning when Mr O was informed that Phoenix intended to put the 
matter right by requiring Mr O to repay  the amounts hed been  overpaid and by reducing his 
annuity to the correct  level.  
As Mr O has explained, both he and his wife were already struggling financially before 
Phoenixs error came to light. And hes said any reduction in his annuity will cause him 
further difficulty with meeting his outgoings. Mr O says his Phoenix annuity  was and still is an 
integral part of his monthly budgeting for retirement. 
There isnt any dispute about the fact that Phoenix made an error. And Mr O is 
understandably very unhappy about  this. 
Ref: DRN42384773The issue  I have to decide is whether the action Phoenix has taken is fair, satisfactorily 
resolves the matter  and sufficiently compensates Mr O for trouble and upset caused by what  
has happened.
I understand Mr O would like Phoenix to keep paying his annuity at the higher rate. He 
doesnt think its fair Phoenix make any changes to his annuity when he accepted  the 
original figures it provided him with in good faith.  While I appreciate  the point Mr O is trying 
to make here, Im unable to support this position.  Phoenix made a mistake and paid Mr O a 
higher level of annuity than he was entitled  to. But this doesnt mean Phoenix is now bound  
by its errors. 
In a situation like this, we aim to put a consumer back in the position they would have been 
in, had the correct  action  been taken at the outset. So for Mr O, the correct  action is that he 
receives the annuity he was originally entitled to and not the higher  annuity paid to him in 
error. Mr O isnt entitled to benefit from Phoenixs  mistake by continuing to be paid a higher 
annuity income. And because of this Im unable to conclude that it would  be fair to require 
Phoenix to keep paying Mr O the higher annuity  that was originally  set up incorrectly.
I note Phoenix was originally requesting Mr O repay  the annuity overpayments  hed 
received, but having considered the matter further  it has decided to write off the 
overpayments. Phoenix  is entitled to ask for the overpayments made to be returned but 
given what Mr O has said about  his financial situation I think it was reasonable for Phoenix to 
change its position  on the matter. 
Im mindful that Phoenix notified  Mr O of the error it had made  in June  2018.  And while it 
originally said it would  reduce Mr Os annuity  payments  to the correct  amount in September 
2018 Phoenix later revised this to March  2019. So in addition to the original overpayments 
Mr O received and has been  allowed to keep  hes also received several more annuity 
payments at the higher  incorrect rate while this matter  has been ongoing. I havent seen 
anything to suggest Phoenix  is asking Mr O to pay these  overpayments back. I consider the 
action Phoenix has taken in this respect to be fair considering Mr Os financial situation.  
Phoenix has given  Mr O further time before reducing  his annuity, and in doing  so it allowed 
Mr O the opportunity to review his finances  and outgoings based on him receiving the 
correct annuity  payments  going forward. I think this was appropriate in the circumstances.
Turning now to the impact  of Phoenixs  error. Its clear to me trouble  and upset has been 
caused to Mr O. For what has happened  Phoenix has apologised, written  off any 
overpayments and offered  Mr F £400 compensation. This level of award is fair and 
reasonable and in line with what Id expect to see in the circumstances- especially 
considering the avoidable  loss of expectation  Mr O has suffered and distress and 
inconvenience Phoenixs error  has caused.  
I have real sympathy for Mr O and can appreciate how upsetting this will all have been. Its 
clear to me that having  correct information  about his retirement income was of great 
importance to Mr O and understandably  so as it wouldve  impacted the financial decisions he 
made. Phoenixs error will have naturally undermined Mr Os confidence in the service  it 
provides and his faith in the information  it gives him. But Phoenix doesnt dispute the fact 
that it has got things  wrong. It has apologised and offered compensation for what has 
happened. 
While Im not directing  Phoenix to make  the award I understand Mr O would like, in that I 
dont think Phoenix  should be bound to continue paying his annuity  on the incorrect basis,  I 
Ref: DRN42384774should say that I do think  its entirely reasonable for Mr O to expect Phoenix to get matters  
as important as this right. And its unfortunate that in this case  that didnt happen. I am 
genuinely sorry to hear of the impact that this has had on Mr O. 
I dont underestimate  or doubt Mr Os sincerity or strength of feeling in bringing  his complaint 
to this service and I understand that my decision may come as a disappointment to him, but 
for the reasons Ive explained I wont be asking Phoenix to do anything  further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it Mr O to decide whether he 
would like to accept Phoenixs offer of £400  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Chillel Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4238477