K821x#15complaint
Mr Vs representative, a claims management  company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice by Lloyds Bank PLC.  
background
In September  2007, Mr V and his wife Mrs V were  advised to invest £10,000 each  into an 
Open Ended  Investment Company (OEIC).
Lloyds rejected the complaint. In summary  it said:
At the time Mr and Mrs V held £29,000 jointly in a savings account.
Mr V had £11,500 invested  in a cash ISA and in total they had £42,000 available. 
The investment  of £10,000 each  represented  only 47.62%  of their available  funds.  
Mr V was left with £22,000  which was suitable for emergencies or unplanned 
emergencies.
Mr Vs attitude to risk was assessed as balanced and he chose to invest  in the 
Balanced Growth  Portfolio which was a low to medium  risk fund.
The funds matched Mr Vs attitude  to risk, and were considered suitable for 
inexperienced investors. 
Mr and Mrs V encashed their investments early to pay for home improvements which  
wasnt envisaged at the time. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld.
In summary,  he said:
Mr V was advised to use a fund which was risk rated 3 out of 6 by Lloyds. 
It targeted around 50% in equity investments and the rest in bonds. 
The advice given  to Mr V was suitable as he was willing and able and to take some 
risk.
The CMC disagreed with the investigators  view and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, on the face of the evidence and on balance, despite what the CMC says,  I 
agree with the investigators conclusion for substantially the same  reasons. Im not going to 
uphold this complaint.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Vs strength of feeling about  this matter. 
Ref: DRN45590352He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider  the evidence presented by Mr V and the business,  and reach what I think 
is an independent,  fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. 
Im aware theres a separate complaint brought by Mrs V (identical in nature) which  will also 
be considered  by me but in a separate complaint. In this case  Im only considering Mr Vs 
complaint. 
On balance Im satisfied that the advice given  to Mr V was broadly suitable.  Im satisfied that 
he was willing to take a risk and was in good  position to do so with £10,000  of his money. 
Mr Vs answers also indicate  that he was prepared to take risk with his capital. It was 
recorded that Mr V answered Tend to Agree  to the following questions:
Ups and downs in the value of my money are acceptable to achieve  potentially 
better growth over the long term.
My first priority is to maximise the return on my money so I am prepared to accept 
the risk that its value  may fall.
It was also recorded  that Mr V answered tend to disagree to the following question:
Maintaining the money I have is more important to me than making it grow.  
Mr Vs answers on balance suggest  that he was willing to take a risk with his money. And Im 
unable to say that the funds  invested around  50% in equities  and more than a dozen other 
funds  was more risk than Mr V was willing to accept. 
Ive seen no reason  to suggest that he was interested in paying off the mortgage  rather than 
investing  I note the fact find records that he didnt want  advice about the mortgage. In any 
case, having a mortgage didnt prevent Mr V from investing.  
Im also satisfied that Mr V had sufficient time to weigh up the advice. Despite what  the CMC 
says, I dont think Mrs V was advised to invest too much of his money or that he put too 
much of it at risk. 
Furthermore, after investing, I note that Mr V still has a reasonable amount of cash  reserve - 
over £20,000 collectively  for emergencies. 
I also note Mr V surrendered his investment in order to pay for a kitchen.  Its unlikely this 
was envisaged  at the time of the investment and doesnt make the recommendation 
unsuitable. But for this unforeseeable  reason, Im satisfied at the time Mr V was willing  to 
invest for five years.  
Ref: DRN45590353I appreciate Mr V will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same  conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate  his 
frustration, Im not going to ask Lloyds to do anything.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what  
he wants.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020. 
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4559035