K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) didnt block his credit 
card after hed notified it of his gambling addiction and this was irresponsible.  As a result he 
used his credit card and spent £2,300  on gambling transactions  which  hed like written off.
background
In May 2016  Mr S notified  Barclaycard that he was experiencing  financial difficulty  due to a 
gambling addiction.  It was agreed with Mr S that Barclaycard would block his card and a 
repayment plan was agreed. Mr S thought his card was blocked  permanently and that he 
couldnt use it again.
In March 2018, he relapsed  and used his credit  card to spend £2,300 on gambling  
transactions. Hes unhappy  that Barclaycard allowed  him to use his card despite being  
aware of his gambling addiction and he thinks this was irresponsible.  To settle the complaint 
he wants Barclaycard to write off the £2,300 he spent on gambling  transactions.
When Mr S complained to Barclaycard, it upheld his complaint. It agreed that Mr S had 
made them aware of his gambling addiction but this hadnt been noted on all of its systems. 
It offered  £250 compensation.  It also refunded over credit limit charges of £24, a late 
payment fee of £12, and interest  of £64.90. Mr S doesnt think  this is sufficient  so he referred 
his complaint to our service.
When our adjudicator looked  into Mr Ss complaint she didnt recommend it should be 
upheld. She thought that when Barclaycard wrote to him in late May 2016  to confirm his 
temporary payment  arrangement,  it was clear that at the end of his temporary  arrangement 
his account would return to normal and youll need  to start paying  your contractual  minimum 
payment and will charged late payment fees if you dont pay on time. Therefore she didnt 
agree the bank had made an error as the plan was for 12 months and as he met his 
contractual minimum payments his account returned  to normal.
She noted that Barclaycard sent him a letter in May 2017 to tell him his reduced payment 
plan had ended. Although Mr S told Barclaycard of his gambling addiction  on 13 June 2017 
she noted that gambling transactions were permitted by the terms and conditions  of his 
account. The transactions were recorded on his statements as cash  transactions  and 
Barclaycard had explained that even if there had been a block on his account, it wouldnt 
have been possible  to block the transactions because they came  up as cash  transactions 
rather than gambling  transactions.
The adjudicator noted that Barclaycard had refunded to Mr S over credit  limit charges of £24, 
a late payment fee of £12, interest  of £64.90 and it had also offered £250 compensation. 
She also noted that Barclaycard agreed  to reset a payment plan hed set up through a debt 
charity and she noted that although  the Barclaycard  agreed to reduce Mr Ss interest  to 6.9% 
during the temporary arrangement no interest  had in fact been charged on his account  since 
September 2016. Overall she thought this was fair and reasonable.
Mr S doesnt  agree  with the adjudicators view. He made a number of detailed points. He 
thought Barclaycard should have been alerted to his problems due to the number of cash 
transactions he made around 12-14 March 2018.  In response our adjudicator  didnt think the 
bank had made an error because the terms and conditions  allow  for cash transactions.
Ref: DRN48578262He also wanted  to know why gambling  transactions werent turned off and he referred  to a 
gambling case study on Barclays website which says that this can be done.  In response,  
Barclaycard explained to our service that this was a feature only currently  available  for 
current account holders  with a debit card.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard accepts it made an error  here because although Mr S told Barclaycard about his 
gambling addiction  this wasnt noted on all its systems. As Barclaycard accepts it made  an 
error here the question I need  to ask myself is whether its done  enough  to put matters  right.  
On balance I think it has, so Ill explain why.
In May 2016  Mr S contacted Barclaycard  as he was experiencing  financial difficulties. 
Barclaycard agreed  to suspend interest and charges  on his account for 30 days to agree  a 
way forward and his account was put on hold. This was confirmed in a letter dated 20 May 
2016.
A repayment plan was then agreed by which Mr S agreed to pay £200 per month for 12 
months and Barclaycard agreed to reduce interest to 6.9% during the period of the plan. This 
was confirmed in a letter dated 24 May 2016. The letter made clear that at the end of the 
arrangement his account would return to normal.
Mr S kept to the arrangement  and in April 2017 Barclaycard notified him that his reduced 
payment plan would be coming to an end soon.  It also wrote  to him towards the end of May 
2017 to confirm his plan had come to an end and the letter  made clear that his credit card 
account would move back to his standard terms, including  interest  rates.
Mr S told us that he thought his card was permanently blocked but Ive seen nothing  to 
suggest this was the case. Ive looked at the letters  written by Barclaycard  when  the 
temporary arrangement  was agreed and Im satisfied that these made clear that use of his 
card was only suspended whilst the temporary arrangement was in place. And if Mr S 
thought his card was blocked permanently there wouldnt have been any need for him to ring 
Barclaycard as he did in June  2017 to tell them about his gambling addiction.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ss credit card account allow  gambling  transactions to 
be made and the charges and interest  applied to his account appear to have  been  
applied in line with the terms and conditions  of his account. So I dont think Barclaycard 
made an error, procedurally, in applying these. What I need to decide  is whether 
Barclaycard acted fairly.
Its not disputed  that Mr S notified Barclaycard of his gambling addiction in June 2017. 
However, his gambling transactions appear on his credit card statements as cash  
transactions. Barclaycard has explained that as these transactions were  recorded as 
cash even if a block had been applied, it wouldnt have been able to identify that the 
cash transactions were  gambling related.
Where a cardholder  makes transactions and there isnt any dispute  that the 
transactions were  carried out by him, I think Barclaycard is entitled to assume that Mr S 
wanted to purchase  the goods or services. And it isnt Barclaycards responsibility  to tell 
an account holder  what  they can and cant spend  their money  on or to monitor  
transactions or to make unsolicited  recommendations  about how money  is being spent.
Ref: DRN48578263As Mr S has had the benefit  of the money  in the sense  of being able to spend  it as he 
wished  I dont  think it would be fair to ask Barclaycard to write  off the amount of 
Mr Ss gambling transactions.
I dont agree that Barclaycard should have been alerted to there  being  a problem due to 
the number of cash transactions he made in the middle of March  2018. I say this 
because Ive looked at his statements and the cash transactions made were still within 
the permitted  cash  limit detailed on his statement.
Barclaycard also emailed Mr S on 14 March  2018 to explain that he was nearing his 
credit limit and it also sent a further  email  on 19 March 2018 to let him know hed 
exceeded his credit limit. So I think Barclaycard acted fairly  in making Mr S aware of his 
transactions and I think he could  have contacted  Barclaycard sooner about this.
Im sympathetic to the position  Mr S now finds himself in but for the reasons  Ive explained 
above I wont be asking  Barclaycard to write  off the £2,300 of gambling transactions.
In settlement  of the complaint, Barclaycard has refunded a late payment fee of £12, two over 
credit limit charges of £24, interest of £64.90 and its also offered £250 compensation. I also 
note that when Barclaycard set up the temporary payment arrangement in 2016 although it 
said reduced interest of 6.9% would be charge, Barclaycard has confirmed  that no interest  
was changed  on his account  since September 2016.  Barclaycard also agreed to reset  a 
payment plan Mr S set up with a debt charity. So overall I think  Barclaycards  settlement  is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint and it remains  open  to Mr S to accept the £250 
compensation offered by Barclaycard which Id expect it to honour.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4857826