K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about  U K Insurance Limiteds (UKIs)  handling of their travel 
insurance claim. 
Ive referred to all parties working on UKIs behalf as UKI within  this decision.  
background
Whilst on holiday, Mr D started experiencing some health problems. He was admitted to 
hospital for further investigations. Mrs D notified UKI of this. UKI wanted some  further  
information to ensure  the claim was valid. Mr D chose to leave the hospital rather  than risk 
incurring costs that may not be covered by UKI. 
Two days after Mr D had first been admitted to hospital,  UKI provided a guarantee of 
payment. 
Mr and Mrs D complained  to UKI about  its handling  of the claim,  particularly the delay in 
providing the guarantee of payment. 
UKI accepted its handling of the claim wasnt as it should have been. It paid Mr and Mrs D 
£300 compensation for this. Unhappy  with this, Mr and Mrs D brought a complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She accepted  UKI had made  
errors, but she thought the compensation it had paid Mr and Mrs D was reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt accept our investigators  findings, so the matter has been referred to 
me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr D was experiencing some serious symptoms, and was admitted to hospital for 
investigations. UKI requested information from Mr Ds GP. It wanted to check he had no 
history of the symptoms,  so that it could confirm  the claim would be covered and provide the 
guarantee of payment. As the investigator  has explained, its normal for insurers  to do this. 
Unfortunately, Mr D was worried that his claim might not be accepted  and so chose not to 
remain in hospital  overnight.  UKI accepts  that given Mr Ds symptoms, it should  have  
escalated the matter to someone senior at the time. If that had been done, it says it could  
have provided  reassurance to Mr D and tried to convince him to remain  in hospital. Given  
that Mr D hadnt experienced the symptoms  previously, I agree that UKI could have provided 
more reassurance to Mr D. Had it done  so, its likely he would  have remained in the hospital. 
After UKI received the necessary information  from the GP, it provided a guarantee of 
payment two days after the claim was first made. It seems there was an avoidable delay 
here, as UKI advised Mr and Mrs D it was still waiting for the information from Mr Ds GP, but 
the GP told Mrs D it had already been  provided.  Thankfully this delay didnt impact Mr Ds 
Ref: DRN46947012health, and he was able to go back into hospital and receive the treatment he needed after 
UKI had provided  a guarantee  of payment.
UKI also says that its communication could have been better. Ive looked at the claim notes 
and I agree that UKI could  have  provided Mr and Mrs D with more  updates.  
Mr and Mrs D have explained that the experience was very traumatic  for both of them. I do 
have sympathy for them, as they went through a difficult time in a foreign country. However, 
as the investigator  has explained, we can only consider the impact that UKIs actions had on 
them. Taking everything into account, I think the £300 compensation paid by UKI was 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as Im satisfied the compensation UKI 
has paid was reasonable for its errors.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 May 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4694701