K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  about the conflicting information theyve received from both 
Prestige Finance Limited and their original lender, about the transfer of their secured loan. 
Theyre unhappy their data and information  was passed to Prestige Finance Limited  in 2015. 
Mr and Mrs F have  also complained about the early repayment charges they paid when they 
redeemed the loan, and the fact the interest  rate increased in between them applying for the 
loan and agreeing to the terms, and the loan being  agreed  and completed  by the lender. 
Mr and Mrs F also complain about  the way they were treated whilst in financial difficulty, and 
the fees and charges they incurred as a result.
background
In 2006 Mr and Mrs F took out a secured loan for just over £28,000. In March  2015, this loan 
was sold to Prestige  and in July 2015 the loan was fully redeemed.  Mr and Mrs F 
complained about the transfer  of the loan at the time, as they were unclear how to make 
their payments. The previous lender confirmed to Mr and Mrs F that the loan hadnt actually 
been transferred  to Prestige, and paid some  compensation  to apologise for any confusion.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs F complained to the previous lender  about  their secured loan. However, 
the previous lender forwarded the complaint to Prestige, and explained that as the loan had 
been transferred,  Prestige  were responsible for responding to Mr and Mrs Fs concerns.
Mr and Mrs F complained again about the information theyd received about the transfer, as 
it conflicted with what theyd been  told previously. They  also raised their concerns with the 
Information Commissioners Office  (ICO).
Prestige responded  to the complaint. They explained that Prestige had been the owners of 
Mr and Mrs Fs loan since March  2015, but the loan portfolio  Prestige had bought from the 
previous lender was not fully transferred over until November 2015   which was after 
Mr and Mrs F had redeemed their loan. So whilst Prestige owned the loan when it was 
redeemed, the loan account  was never  fully transferred. 
Prestige also explained that Mr and Mrs F had complained  about  the arrears  fees and 
charges in 2008, and this complaint was responded to at the time  so they wouldnt be 
looking into that again. They said that no arrears  fees had been charged since July 2008. 
They also explained that they didnt  have details of any early repayment charges  
Mr and Mrs F were  charged upon redemption  so couldnt investigate that point, but they 
invited Mr and Mrs F to provide more  information about the charges so they could respond.
Mr and Mrs F asked  our service to look into things. They  explained how much distress they 
were experiencing as a result of the conflicting information theyve received about their loan.  
They also told us that the ICO had considered their concerns and found that the previous 
lender of Mr and Mrs Fs loan had not complied with their data protection  obligations. 
Mr and Mrs F have  also made a similar  complaint  to our service about  their mortgage, which 
our service  is considering  separately.
Our investigator looked into things and explained that our service only had the power to 
consider Mr and Mrs Fs complaint about  events that took place after 1 April 2014. He said 
this was because  the loan Mr and Mrs F took out was an unregulated credit  agreement,  and 
the original lender this was taken out with didnt fall within our services compulsory 
Ref: DRN41961152jurisdiction until 1 April 2014. So this is the timeframe he considered.  Having done so, he 
didnt uphold  the complaint.
Mr and Mrs F asked  for an ombudsman to make  a decision on the matter,  so the complaint 
was passed to me.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 9 April 2020. This is what I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Which parts  of this complaint can our service consider?
Mr and Mrs F took out a second charge secured loan for just over £28,000 in 2006. This was 
an unregulated  credit agreement. Although it was an unregulated agreement, our service 
would still be able to consider a complaint about  this loan if the lender  was in our compulsory 
jurisdiction at the time. However, the relevant lender  didnt fall under our compulsory 
jurisdiction until 1 April 2014, so we can only consider Mr and Mrs Fs complaint about what 
has happened since then.  Ill now go on to consider the way Mr and Mrs F have been treated 
by the relevant lenders  since this date.
The transfer of the loan to Prestige
I can understand why Mr and Mrs F are concerned and confused  about what happened with 
their loan before it was redeemed  as theyve  received different explanations over a 
significant period  of time. Both the previous lender and Prestige have now explained  what 
happened. Mr and Mrs Fs loan was sold to Prestige in March 2015,  and this is the point  at 
which they became  the legal owners  of the loan.  
However, the loans  Prestige bought  were  not fully transferred  over to their own systems until 
November 2015   and the previous  lender  continued to administer the loans on Prestiges  
behalf for this interim period. Mr and Mrs Fs loan account was never  fully transferred to 
Prestiges system as theyd redeemed it in the interim. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs F have  
now received a clear  explanation about  what  happened,  and Ive got no reason to doubt 
what both lenders have now said is the case. But I am persuaded Mr and Mrs F should be 
compensated for the confusion theyve  experienced due to the conflicting information  theyve 
been given. Considering everything all parties have told us, Im satisfied Prestige should pay 
Mr and Mrs F £225 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Im aware  Mr and Mrs F have 
also received an offer of compensation from their previous  lender, which Ive taken into 
account when  deciding what to award.
Mr and Mrs F feel that by passing their data and information onto Prestige, the previous 
lender has breached data protection requirements. Theyve  also told us the ICO has a 
similar view, although havent provided  our service  with the ICOs actual report  to evidence 
this. Whilst it is not the role of this service  to determine whether there has or hasnt been a 
breach of data protection law by a business, I will consider whether I think the business has 
acted fairly  and reasonably, taking into account all of the relevant  information.
In this case, Prestige  became the legal owners of Mr and Mrs Fs loan in March  2015. So Im 
satisfied that because of this, it was fair and reasonable for Mr and Mrs Fs data and 
Ref: DRN41961153information held by the previous lender to be passed  over to Prestige. Whilst I appreciate 
Mr and Mrs Fs loan was redeemed shortly after the change  in ownership  Im not 
persuaded this makes  a difference here as Prestige were still the owners  at the time the loan 
was redeemed. As a result, I dont think Mr and Mrs F have been treated unfairly due to 
Prestige having  access to their information.
Mr and Mrs F have  also complained about the sale of the loan to Prestige itself  and the 
fact that the lender was able to pass their data and information to another  lender without 
their permission. I understand Mr and Mrs F are unhappy they werent consulted about the 
sale of the loan, and werent given the option to remain with their original  lender.  
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of their loan agreement and am satisfied that these 
allowed the lender to transfer the loan to another lender at any time.  So the lender was 
acting within  the terms of the contract at the time. But Ive also thought  about  whether it was 
fair for them  to use this term when they agreed to sell Mr and Mrs Fs loan in 2015. 
Mr and Mrs Fs loan was only held with Prestige for around five months  before it was 
redeemed. During  this time, Ive not seen  anything to suggest  that being  with Prestige meant 
that Mr and Mrs F were treated any differently  as the original lender was still administering 
their loan at the time. I know Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that the sale of the loan meant that 
Prestige had access to their information   but Ive already addressed  that issue above. 
Considering everything, Im not satisfied the lender  was acting unfairly  when they sold the 
loan to Prestige,  and Im not satisfied Mr and Mrs F have lost out as a result of the sale.
Fair treatment whilst in financial difficulty
Since Mr and Mrs F took out this loan, theyve been  through difficult  times  both due to Mr Fs 
employment situation and his health. Im sorry to hear about the challenges theyve faced  
during these times, and the impact  this has had on their lives.
As I explained, I only have the power to consider how the lender  has treated Mr and Mrs F 
since 1 April 2014  so Ive looked  at whats happened since  then. Looking  at the contact 
notes for the loan account, there are no notes to suggest that Mr and Mrs F told Prestige or 
the previous lender that they were  experiencing financial difficulty during this time. They  
were also making their monthly  payments on time each month. As a result, no fees or 
charges were incurred  on the account because  of any arrears from April 2014 onwards. 
Taking all of this into account,  Im not persuaded the lenders have acted  unfairly when 
administering Mr and Mrs Fs loan account  during this period.
Early repayment  charges  paid to settle  the loan
Mr and Mrs Fs loan was due to be repaid in 2026.  However in 2015 Mr and Mrs F paid 
£21,915.17 to redeem  the loan. The lender returned  £85.51 to them after this was paid. 
Prestige has said that they dont have  the details of any early repayment charges that 
Mr and Mrs F paid when  they redeemed the loan. And Mr and Mrs F havent been  able to 
provide details of these  either.
The terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs Fs loan state that after year four of the loan being 
in place, there will be no charges for early repayment provided the borrowers  give one 
months written notice. If one months  notice isnt given   the terms state  that one months 
interest will be charged on redemption.
Ref: DRN41961154Looking at the contact notes I can see that Mr and Mrs F asked for a redemption  figure  on 
22 July 2015.  The notes state  that Mr and Mrs F were made aware of the early repayment 
charge (although the note doesnt  say what this would be). The loan was redeemed  on 
31 July 2015.  So less than one months  notice was given by Mr and Mrs F for early  
redemption, and in line with the terms and conditions  of the loan, the lender was entitled to 
charge Mr and Mrs F one months  interest  because  of this.
Whilst Prestige havent provided details of what was charged at redemption,  I do have the 
transaction history  which shows the amounts that have been  paid towards the account. It 
does seem that around £150 was charged for additional interest at redemption  which  was 
roughly what Mr and Mrs F had been  paying in monthly interest leading up to then. So I think  
its likely  this was the early repayment charge  for redeeming the loan without  a months 
notice. Given that the lender had a weeks notice that this loan would be fully repaid around  
11 years  early, Im not persuaded  £150 is an unreasonable amount for the lender to charge 
to cover the costs to them of this.
Mr and Mrs F were  also charged £66 for a solicitors discharge fee. As well as setting out the 
early repayment charges,  the credit  agreement also says that administration and processing 
costs to discharge the property are payable. This is a common  feature of secured loan 
agreements across the industry, as legal and administrative work  is required to end the loan 
contract and remove the charge from the propertys title. This would have been payable  
regardless of whether the loan was repaid early or ran for the full term. The amount 
Mr and Mrs F were  charged for this is not out of line with what  Id expect, and what is 
commonly charged by other  lenders.
Its not entirely clear  from the transaction history if there were any other charges applied to 
the loan at redemption other than those Ive mentioned above. If either party  can now 
provide more information or detail about this, Id be happy to consider it before I issue my 
final decision. But based on the information I currently have, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs F 
have incurred or paid any early  repayment charges unfairly.
responses to my provisional  decision
Prestige responded  and accepted my provisional  decision.
Mr F didnt  agree with the provisional outcome I had reached. He sent information  about 
legal advice hes sought about whether a breach of data protection  has occurred.  As a result 
of this, hes requested  that I increase the compensation award to between  £4,000  and 
£5,000. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including the detailed submissions Mr F 
has provided since I issued my provisional decision.
Having done so, whilst I appreciate Mr Fs strength  of feelings on the matter, I havent seen 
anything which changes  my original decision.
I understand that Mr F feels strongly  that a data breach  has been made by the previous 
lender, as his data was passed  to Prestige after he redeemed the loan. But Ive already 
Ref: DRN41961155explained that it is not the role of our service to determine whether or not either lender has 
breached data protection law. So I wont comment on that further here.
I have thought very carefully though about  whether I think  it was fair for the previous lender  
to pass data about Mr and Mrs Fs loan to Prestige when it did in November 2015. Having 
done so  Im still persuaded it was fair. 
Prestige owned  Mr and Mrs Fs loan from March 2015 until it was redeemed later that year. 
So even though by the time Mr and Mrs Fs data was transferred to Prestige in November, 
the loan had already been  redeemed, I still think it was appropriate for Prestige to receive 
and hold information about  Mr and Mrs Fs loan  as they remained liable for the loan and 
any future administration that may be required in association with it. An example of this 
would be complaint handling   as has been demonstrated here.  So as Im not satisfied the 
lender has acted unfairly by sharing this information,  I wont be asking Prestige to pay 
Mr and Mrs F compensation for this.
I do still think that Mr and Mrs F have been given  incorrect and conflicting information  about 
this issue since the transfer took place. I appreciate Mr and Mrs F have been through a very 
difficult time over the years, and have found  this issue distressing in particular. But having 
considered the overall circumstances, Im still satisfied a payment of £225  from Prestige is a 
fair amount to compensate them  for this distress. I think  a significant amount of 
Mr and Mrs Fs distress  has come  from the fact theyre unhappy Prestige has access to their 
information in the first place. But as Ive already said  I dont consider it would be fair for 
Prestige to compensate  them for this, as I dont  think  the transfer of information was done 
unfairly. 
Neither party have  commented on, or provided  any more information  about the other  
complaint points addressed in my provisional decision, so my decision  on those points 
remains unchanged.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold  this complaint and instruct  
Prestige Finance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs F £225 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 July 2020.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4196115