K822xcomplaint
Mr C says that GD Partnership gave him misleading  information  about his pension  income.  
He says hes lost out as a result, because he wouldnt have given  up work when he did, if 
hed been given clearer information.
background
Mr C contacted GD Partnership in 2017, to find out what his income  would be in retirement. 
GD Partnership took Mr C through a fact find interview on 12 July 2017.  It noted down that:
Mr C was 64, 65 the following year;
he was earning  £20,000 per annum  and his and his wifes total income  from work  and 
pensions was nearly £30,000  per annum;
his wife had four years to go before she got her state pension;
he had and occupational pension income  of £2,760 per annum (from scheme A);
he planned to retire as soon as he could afford  to;
Mr C had a further  defined benefit  pension  scheme with a transfer value of around 
£30,000 (from scheme B); and
they needed a joint income of £17,000  to comfortably  meet  their outgoings.
GD Partnership sent Mr C a letter on 16 August 2017 about his state pension  entitlement.  
The letter said As you will note from the statements, [Mr Cs] State Pension benefit  has 
been calculated  as £166.42 per week payable from 6th May 2018 (£8,683.56 per annum).  
This is based on your National  Insurance record up to the 5th April 2017, plus an estimated 
£46.33 per week from your Contracted Out Pension Equivalent  (COPE).
Mr C met with GD Partnership again  in April 2018,  about his scheme B pension. GD 
Partnership sent him a recommendations report dated 22 May 2018. The report  noted  that 
he had recently retired. Mr C told us he retired shortly before  his 65th birthday. GD 
Partnership advised Mr C to take his scheme  B fund of around £32,000 as an uncrystallised 
fund pension lump  sum (UFPLS). The report discussed Mr Cs other options. Mr C accepted  
GD Partnerships advice.
The report  noted  that having  left his job, his income  versus expenditure was:
Self Wife
State pension £8,840
Employment £7,200
Occupational Pension £2,760
£11,600 £7,200
Tax £0 £0
Net income £18,800
Household expenditure £17,000
Surplus £1,800
In June 2018, Mr C telephoned GD Partnership  to query the pension  income he was getting.  
The call note shows that Mr C said he believed he would be retiring  on a pension  of around 
£280 per week (including the £46.33 per week) and this is why he gave  up his job. 
Ref: DRN47486482GD Partnership issued their final response letter in June 2018 and rejected Mr Cs 
complaint. However,  they offered to return the £300  fee due for providing  Mr C with advice.  
Mr C wasnt happy with this response  and the complaint was referred to this service in July 
2018. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed the complaint. He said that whilst  the letter issued to Mr C 
on 16 August 2017, couldve  been  clearer, it wasnt incorrect. The COPE amount estimated 
to be £46.33 was in fact part of the pension  Mr C was already getting through  his scheme A 
pension. Our adjudicator  pointed out that Mr C had another pension (his scheme  B pension) 
which he couldve taken an income from, if he wanted to increase his income.  However, 
instead hed taken this as a taxable  lump sum.  This meant that his weekly  income was 
reduced, but that hed got a lump sum in place  of it. Our adjudicator also said, had Mr C 
continued to work past 65, and taken the full lump sum, he was likely to have been  a higher 
rate taxpayer in the 2018/19 tax year. And from the correspondence it appeared Mr C was 
concerned about  his tax position.
The adjudicator felt that the business  hadnt  done anything substantially  wrong  and that the 
offer of £300 compensation was fair and reasonable given  the circumstances. 
Mr C was unhappy with the findings of the adjudicator. He said that GD Partnership  were the 
professionals and that, he retired  earlier  than he otherwise would have done if hed been 
given clearer information in August 2017.  Mr C said he would have carried  on working for 
around one year more  had he known he wasnt going to receive  the extra £46.33  per week.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mr Cs complaint  has been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. Thats  because  I think GDs Partnerships  
offer of settlement is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont  make  any award. 
Ill explain  why.
Ive read GD Partnerships  letter of 16 August  2017. Ive also looked at the pension  forecast  
from the Department for Work and Pensions dated  8 August 2017, sent with that letter.  The 
DWP letter said his state pension forecast was £166.42 per week.  It said this about his 
COPE: 
Your COPE estimate is 
£46.33 a week
This will not affect your State Pension forecast. The COPE amount is paid as part of your 
other pension schemes, not by the government.
In most cases the private pension scheme  you were contracted out to:
will include an amount equal  to the COPE  amount
may not individually identify  the COPE amount.
Ref: DRN47486483Taken together I think  this correspondence  made it clear what  Mr Cs state pension  was 
likely to be, but that the COPE would  come from his private pension  scheme.
Its fair to say that GD Partnerships letter didnt make it clear that Mr C was already being 
paid the COPE amount from his scheme A pension  in payment. Mr C had two pension 
schemes, schemes A and B. I cant see that he asked GD Partnership which scheme  his 
COPE would be paid from.  But, I think GD Partnership ought reasonably to have clarified the 
position.
So, as Mr C was given  incomplete information,  I have gone on to consider whether I think 
Mr C has lost out because  of GD Partnerships failure to make  this clear. Ive thought  about  
whether he wouldve done something different if given clearer  information. Mr C says he 
wouldve continued to work for around another  year,  before leaving his job. He says hes lost 
out financially. 
Firstly, had Mr C worked  for another year, received his state pension,  his scheme A pension 
and taken the UFPLS from scheme B, I think it likely he wouldve been a higher rate tax 
payer. I can see from the May 2018 report there was some  discussion around tax and the 
impact of taking the UFPLS. I think Mr C wouldve ended up paying considerably more tax if 
he carried on working. I think this is likely  to have had a bearing on Mr Cs decision to 
continue working.
Secondly, Mr C told GD Partnership in August 2017,  that he intended to retire as soon as he 
could afford  to. Once Mr Cs state pension came into payment, it seems  to me that he was 
able to afford to retire  as their income from his state pension,  his scheme A pension and 
Mrs Cs salary exceeded their outgoings and they had a surplus.  So, I think given his stated 
objectives, even  if hed been  told he was already  getting the COPE amount, most likely  Mr C 
wouldve still chosen to retire when he did.
 
Mr C retired before he received the recommendation report  from GD Partnership about  
taking his scheme B pension. Mr and Mrs Cs income without his Scheme B pension 
exceeded their outgoings.  I think when he got the August  2017  letter,  he probably thought he 
would get £46.33 per week from his scheme B pension. I say that because GD Partnership 
say that when making his complaint, Mr C told it that he believed the COPE amount would 
be paid from his scheme B pension as income. 
GD Partnership says it made  it clear  to Mr C at the point  he decided  to take the UFPLS  that 
he would  be taking his pension as a capital  payment, rather than as income. From reading 
the May 2018  report, I think GD Partnership  did make this clear. Details of his and his wifes 
financial position were  clearly outlined in that report,  and Mr C opted to take the lump sum 
instead of a monthly income, which it appears he was not reliant  on to meet his outgoings. 
So, although  I accept  that it may not have  been clear to Mr C initially which  scheme the 
COPE was being paid from, when he decided  to take the UFPLS  I think it wouldve been 
clear that he wouldnt  get both a capital and income payment from scheme B. I think  had 
Mr C wanted to ensure  that his monthly income was around £280  per week,  he wouldve 
mentioned his income requirement to GD Partnership at that time. I cant  see that he did 
that.
I dont think that Mr Cs lost out financially because of the incomplete  information he received  
from GD Partnership. I havent  seen anything to make me think he didnt receive  the correct  
amounts due from schemes  A and B. For the reasons Ive explained I think it likely  that he 
Ref: DRN47486484wouldve still given up his job when he did, even  if he had been given clearer  information.  
So, I dont think Mr C has lost out because of anything that GD Partnership did wrong. 
I understand that Mr C did not pay GD Partnership  the £300 fee payable for the advice 
given. If Mr C decides to accept my decision, GD Partnership can offset this amount against 
the £300 it is due to pay Mr C in compensation.  So, GD Partnership doesnt  have to pay  
Mr C anything.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint for the reasons explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4748648