K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide)  mis-sold  her single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies when she took out loans with it.
background
Nationwide sold Mrs R the policies  when she took out two loans. The first loan was taken out 
in September  1999 and the second loan was taken to pay off this in June 2000. The policies 
covered Mrs R if she lost her job for up to 12 months  or was unable  to work due to accident  
or sickness until the end of each loan term.
Our adjudicator didnt  think her complaint should be upheld against either sale because  he 
thought the policies were presented as optional and thought the PPI wouldve been useful 
for Mrs R.
Mrs R disagrees.  She says she didnt know she had PPI.
So her complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Rs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Rs complaint on either of the sales of PPI.
Nationwide needed  to make it clear  to Mrs R she had a choice in taking the PPI. Mrs R said 
this wasnt done  and Nationwide say that the documentation from the time of the sales  
makes it clear to Mrs R that PPI was optional. 
So to decide how the PPI was presented,  Ive considered what  Mrs R has said along with 
what Nationwide have  said about  its sales process and any documents weve  been given 
from the time of each  sale.  
Ive seen a copy  of both Mrs Rs signed  loan agreements  which  I see clearly set out the 
costs of the loans  and the Optional Credit Insurance with and without interest, separately. I 
dont think that Mrs R wouldve thought the PPI wasnt optional when thats how its 
described in both the agreements she signed.  
And I think if Mrs R hadnt agreed  to take out PPI or thought she had no choice in taking the 
PPI she wouldve questioned why it was included and described as optional within the 
agreement. So I think Mrs R received the loan agreements with PPI on them  because  she 
chose to take the loans with PPI when  she applied  for the loans.
Nationwide say the sale of the PPI on each loan was non-advised. From what I understand 
of its sales process I think this wouldve been the case. What  this means is that in its view it 
didnt recommend PPI to Mrs R, it just gave her information about PPI. This information 
needed to be given in a way that was clear,  fair and not misleading so that Mrs R could 
make an informed choice  about buying PPI.
Ref: DRN48048002From what  I can see on the loan agreements I think the cost of the PPI was clear,  but I dont 
know if the other information given was good enough. In saying that I dont think this 
wouldve made a difference  because I still think Mrs R wouldve taken out the policies  
because at the time she took out each loan:
From  the information I have,  theres  nothing to suggest Mrs R wasnt  eligible for the 
PPI. And it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions 
in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made  it difficult to make  a 
successful claim.  
Theres nothing to suggest the PPI wasnt affordable.
The PPI wouldve provided her with a useful  benefit as a successful claim wouldve 
paid out on top of any savings or sick pay Mrs R was entitled  to and for potentially 
longer - until the loan had been repaid  in a disability claim, or for up to 12 months for 
an unemployment claim.
Nationwide offered pro-rata refunds,  so Mrs R didnt lose out when she repaid both 
loans back early. 
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs R. I 
think she wouldve still taken the PPI as it provided  a useful benefit and was of value to her. 
And because of this, I dont think Mrs R is any worse  off as a result of any wrong doing by 
Nationwide in either of the sales of PPI that this complaint relates to.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Rs complaint against  Nationwide  
Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4804800