K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1999 
alongside a credit card. Mr C says Barclays Bank  UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold 
him the policy. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr C says that at no point was it made clear to him that the policy  was optional. But based 
on the evidence  Ive seen I think Barclays did make it clear Mr C didnt have to take out the 
PPI and that he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant  remember this. 
I say this as the Mr C first took out his credit card in 1988 and he had this card for more than 
10 years  before the PPI was added to the account. So I think  Mr C wouldve known the PPI 
was not a condition of having the credit  card with Barclays. 
Ive seen a copy  of the application form Mr C completed and signed in 1999  to upgrade his 
credit card. This included a section with PPI where Mr C has ticked the yes option to agree 
to the policy. But there  was also an option  to decline the cover  so again I think  it was clear 
that PPI was an optional extra. Mr C signed this application form so I think this reflected what 
he wanted at the time. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide if the policy was 
right for him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Mr C says he didnt need the PPI as had sufficient other means  which he couldve relied on 
to cover his repayments  had he been suddenly unable to work. Mr C said he had sick pay 
entitlement of six months full pay and he had £10,000 in savings. He told us these savings 
were easily accessible but he was saving for a holiday. However, Ive seen evidence  that 
Mr Cs told Barclays  he had £3,000 in savings at the time. In any event the PPI wouldve 
paid out for up to 12 months - so for longer  than his sick pay wouldve lasted - and in 
addition to his sick pay and savings. This means  Mr Cs savings couldve been used for 
other expenses, or protected for its intended purpose.  So I still think the policy couldve been 
useful for Mr C and overall  I dont  think better  information about the PPI would have put him 
off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont think this policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN47677902Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4767790