K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  credited 7p to his credit card 
account without  giving  him any explanation as to why this had been  done or how the amount 
had been calculated. He is concerned that the amount may have been miscalculated  and 
that he may in fact be due a larger refund. He asks for over £1,300  in compensation.
background
Mr M has a credit  card account with the Halifax. In February 2017 5p was credited to his 
account, which was described in his statement as an interest  adjustment. In April 2018  he 
complained to Halifax, saying that he had received no explanation for this credit,  and had not 
been told about it (other than in his statement). He asked for a full and detailed  calculation of 
how this figure had been arrived  at, so that he could check if it was correct, as he suspected 
that he may in fact be due a larger refund. He asked for a public apology,  £650 in 
compensation, and a refund of the cost of the stamp, envelope and stationery he had spent  
on sending his complaint letter, which came to £3.36.
In April Halifax apologised, refunded  the £3.36, and also paid Mr M £75 for having failed to 
explain how the interest credit had been  calculated. However, it insisted  that the figure was 
correct and that no mistake had been made.
In May 2018  another interest adjustment was made to Mr Ms account,  this time for 2p. 
Again, he complained and asked for the same  compensation as last time. This time, Halifax 
did not offer any further compensation. Mr M brought this complaint to our Service.  (He has 
also made a similar complaint about  another Halifax account, in which he has asked for 
£10,550 compensation, but that complaint  is being  dealt with separately.) He also 
complained that Halifax  had ignored the complaint  letter  hed sent in May.
Halifax said that the interest had been  calculated automatically and was correct.  It had not 
been obliged  to write a letter to Mr M to tell him about each credit, because they were for 
such small amounts.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He didnt think it would be fair or reasonable to 
expect Halifax to write letters to Mr M about  each credit. He thought that the interest 
adjustments were  likely to relate to the brief period between Mr M making a payment  to 
Halifax and Halifax crediting the payment to his account. He saw no reason to doubt that the 
figures were  correct, or to suppose that Mr M was owed a larger refund. There  was no 
evidence of any financial loss to him. In any case, the £75 payment  Halifax had already 
made to him was more than enough.  Finally, Halifax had not ignored Mr Ms May letter, as it 
had replied to him eight  days  later.
Mr M said he hadnt seen Halifaxs reply to his May complaint letter before. He asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Although in this decision  I am not dealing  with Mr Ms other  complaint, that does not prevent 
me from considering the evidence in that complaint to the extent that it is relevant to an issue 
Ref: DRN49260252raised in this one. I see that in November 2017, before Mr M wrote either of his complaint 
letters in this complaint, Halifax sent him its final response letter  in the other complaint. That 
letter referred to another interest adjustment  of 3p and explained what that had related to. 
I dont need to quote the explanation here,  as our investigator in that other complaint quoted 
it in full in her decision in November  2018. (If Mr M no longer has it, then we can provide it to 
him again.) It is enough for me to say that I have  read it, and it is a clear explanation of why 
the interest was credited to Mr Ms account. It is broadly the same explanation as our 
adjudicator gave in his answer to this complaint.
Mr M had made a payment of nearly  £105 to Halifax,  but it took Halifax two days  to credit 
that payment  to his account. The 3p represents the interest that would have been earned  on 
that £105 during those two days if the payment had been applied to his account immediately. 
I infer that the same explanation  is the reason for the credits of 5p and 2p which  are the 
subject of this complaint.  I dont know why Halifax didnt repeat its explanation when he 
complained again in 2018, but I have no doubt that this is the reason.
Mr M says he didnt  receive that letter. I accept that, but I also accept that it was sent at the 
time. There is no evidence from which I could conclude that the letter  is a recent forgery,  as 
he suggests.
I have no reason to doubt that the figures  of 5p and 2p are correct, and I think that Mr Ms 
complaint that he might  be owed more than that is speculative and not supported by any 
evidence. But for the sake  of argument, I will entertain the possibility as a hypothetical  
question and see what conclusions  that leads me to. It seems quite clear to me that the 
interest that could be earned in a couple of days on such a payment could only ever amount 
to a few pence,  and not hundreds or thousands  of pounds as Mr M has suggested.  The 
difference would  in fact be dwarfed by the £75 which Halifax has paid Mr M, and so I would 
not expect it to pay any more than that. Indeed, I think that Halifax has been quite generous; 
it has done more  than I would have told it to do even if its calculations had been  off by a few 
pence. Mr Ms request  for £650 compensation for each interest adjustment is admirably 
ambitious, but self-evidently out of the question.
I agree  with Halifax that there was no need  for it to write Mr M a letter to tell him about each 
interest adjustment, due to their very low value. I think  that their inclusion  on his statements 
was enough.
I do not think it would be reasonable to require Halifax to show  how it worked out the figures  
of 5p and 2p. Nor do I think  that a public  apology is warranted. I accept that Mr M did not 
receive Halifaxs reply to his letter in May,  but I also accept  that it was sent.  So I do not think  
that Halifax has done anything wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019,  but there is no need for him to reply.  If we do not 
hear from him, then we will presume that he rejects my decision.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4926025