K820x#14complaint
F, a limited company, has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) locked access  to its 
telephone banking facility because Mr B, its director, didnt answer  some  security questions 
correctly. The complaint has been brought  by Mr B, on Fs behalf.
background
Mr B is the director of F, a company that has an account with HSBC.
Mr B does most  of Fs banking using this facility, which uses voice recognition  software to 
recognise Mr B when he calls.
One day the software wasnt working, so Mr B had to speak to a customer service  agent to 
verify his identity. He couldnt recall the accounts  telephone security number, so had to 
answer some security questions  to reset access to the facility.  He didnt answer all of these 
correctly, and access to the facility  was blocked. He was unhappy,  and asked to speak  to a 
manager. The manager tried to help by resetting Mr Bs access  to Fs facility, but Mr B again 
answered some questions incorrectly, and the account remained blocked.  Mr B was told 
hed have to visit his nearest branch  which was 40 miles away  to enable him to reset  
access, which he did do later that day. Whilst in branch, he again spoke to someone on the 
telephone banking line, and this time answered all questions correctly.  His access to the 
facility was re-instated.
Mr B complained to HSBC hed been  locked  out of Fs account unnecessarily. HSBC replied 
saying Mr B hadnt correctly answered  all the security questions,  so it blocked access to the 
facility to protect the account  this telephone  security process  is designed to ensure  HSBC 
is speaking to the right person to protect all accounts from fraud and financial crime.
Unhappy with this, Mr B brought the complaint to us. However, one of our investigators 
agreed with the bank   it hadnt done anything wrong. Mr B had answered some questions  
incorrectly, and HSBC  was right to block access to ensure the safety of the account.
Mr B was unhappy with this outcome.  He says one of the questions  originally asked  what  
was the account holding  branch  wasnt  fair, as he couldnt have known the answer  to this 
as he recalled opening Fs account  online. So his complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC have guidelines saying what they have to do when a customer cant access  their 
phone banking facility.  These require HSBC  to ask the customer  a number  of random 
security questions on the phone. Mr B, like any other customer, had to answer  these 
questions correctly to pass  security and gain access to the facility.
Ive listened to the first phone call and can see Mr B answered some of the questions  
incorrectly. Mr B says the manager  should have asked him other questions to verify  who he 
was, when it was clear he couldnt answer  a question,  to help him get access.  Mr B offers to 
provide other information to confirm his identity  he says he has account  statements in front 
of him and can confirm  any transaction going  back to when the account opened. 
Ref: DRN44060282The manager explains  he cant accept this as proof of Mr Bs ID, and I think  this is 
reasonable. To make sure the ID process is secure, HSBC decide  which  questions  to ask. 
They do this to help prevent the risk of third parties  fraudulently getting  access to an 
account.
When Mr B went to the branch, and made the second call, he was asked more questions, 
some the same,  some  different. This time,  he answered these correctly, and the phone 
banking access to Fs account  was reinstated.
I understand why Mr B was frustrated after he was locked out of the facility, and then had to 
spend time going to a branch many miles away to fix the issue. However, he didnt answer 
all of the security questions in the first call correctly. Mr B says the question  about which was 
the account holding branch was unfair. However,  Ive seen HSBCs list of questions that 
must be used to verify someones  identity  in this type of situation, and Im satisfied this was a 
reasonable question to ask. So I think HSBC were right to follow  their guidance to ensure the 
security of Fs account, by blocking access until Mr B could visit a branch to provide proof  of 
his ID to allow access to the facility to be reset.
For these reasons, I dont  consider that HSBC have done anything  wrong.  I dont consider 
theyve acted unfairly in blocking access to Fs account after Mr B was unable to correctly  
answer all of the security  questions. So I wont be asking them to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B, on behalf  of 
F, to accept or reject my decision  before 5 September  2019.  
Mark Evans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4406028