K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc has registered a marker at CIFAS,  the 
national fraud prevention  agency, which is affecting her ability to obtain borrowing.
background
Ms R applied for a buy to let mortgage  with NatWest in November 2018.  This was declined  
and so, she says,  were subsequent applications  with other  lenders.  Ms R found  out that a 
marker had been  registered at CIFAS in December 2018. She made a subject access 
request to CIFAS and found that an application fraud marker  had been made for false  
documentation. She complained to NatWest. It told her that when it suspects fraudulent  
activity it may add a marker. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that:
-NatWest needed  to meet the criteria to load a marker with CIFAS and have sufficient 
evidence.
-It had provided copies of the documents Ms R gave it during her application  and 
evidence of its checks. NatWest had shown  inconsistencies in what  Ms R provided.
-He was satisfied  that this wasnt  the result of an honest mistake  and that what  
NatWest found was sufficient to justify the marker.
Ms R didnt agree and wanted the investigator to be more specific. She said that there  might  
be an issue with her employment record as her ex-employer  had ceased  trading. And that its 
accountants had provided her with information. She didnt believe  that employer had paid all 
the payroll tax due and she wondered if that was part of the problem. She provided her P60 
and P45 tax documents and she now understood it had ended  her employment in November  
2017 without then telling her. Ms R also provided a reference from her overseas bank 
manager about her good  standing.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has explained  the role of CIFAS.  And I want to add that its not enough for a 
financial business to have a suspicion of fraud or financial crime to add a marker. There 
must be reasonable grounds to believe thats been  attempted. And the evidence  must be 
sufficiently clear such that the business  could report it to the police. So thats a high bar.
I also need to say that in cases of alleged fraud like this we wont be in a position  to enter 
into discussion about the nature of the evidence weve seen. And to say exactly  what any 
discrepancies were.  But as the investigators indicated we need to be satisfied during our 
impartial review that the criteria have been  met.
With that in mind Im not going  to be able to comment on the issues Ms R has mentioned 
with her pay and tax documentation. Thats something shed  need  to take up with the parties 
that provided it to her or the relevant authorities. Ive looked  carefully  at what NatWest  has 
provided, the basis for its investigation and how it arrived  at the decision  not to agree to 
borrowing and to apply  the CIFAS marker.  And at how NatWest looked  again  at that decision 
when Ms R complained.
Ref: DRN43067742Having done so Im afraid I find that NatWest  has satisfied the standard necessary here. And 
so I dont have  a reasonable basis to require it to remove the marker. I fully appreciate the 
likely ongoing consequences  for Ms R.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4306774