K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation  to a solar  
panel system she says was misrepresented  to her by the supplier.
Miss G is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
background
In or around September 2015, Miss G was contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel  system (the system) to be installed at her 
home. After  being visited by a representative  of P, Miss G decided to purchase  the system  
and finance it through  a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.  The system was 
subsequently installed.
In February 2017  the CMC made a claim on Miss Gs behalf  under section  75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Miss G to enter  into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following  misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system including VAT had been documented as £9,950 to 
mislead Miss G  this figure did not include  any interest  associated  with the loan, so 
the true cost was £19,452.60;
Miss G was promised a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £799.80 and this didnt take into 
account that after making her loan repayments  Miss G had an actual annual deficit  of 
£1,296.84;
Miss G was unaware that she had to register her system to receive feed-in-tariff 
(FIT) payments and hasnt received any FIT payments;
the credit  agreement would be self-funded by the FIT payments  alone;
the system would  not cost her a penny; and,
she would make savings on her electricity bills.
The CMC also said: Miss G had been  pressurised into signing the agreement and 
purchasing the solar  panel system; Shawbrook had failed to assess  Miss Gs credit 
worthiness; she had no warranty or guarantee despite being told the system  would be under 
warranty for 20 years; and that it hadnt  been explained that the performance of the system  
would deteriorate slightly year on year.
The CMC also raised  concerns under  section  140A of the Act. It said there was an unfair 
relationship between Miss G and Shawbrook due to the misleading representations  made  
about the systems expected performance.
On making the section  75 claim to Shawbrook, the CMC  provided; a copy of a non-
compliance hearing from the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC)  dated December 
Ref: DRN445161722013, the quote that P had given Miss G, copies of marketing material used by P, a job 
advert for P, the loan agreement with Shawbrook and some of Miss Gs electricity  bills.
In its final response letter  Shawbrook said, having reviewed the information  it held on file, as 
well as information provided by P, that it didnt  agree  the system had been misrepresented  to 
Miss G or that there were  any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. In summary, it said:
the fixed sum loan agreement was clear that the cash price  of the system was £9,950 
and the total amount payable, due to the associated interest, was £19,452.60;
the contract P had provided  Miss G set out the expected total returns from the 
system and this, alongside the finance agreement, made it clear that the system  was 
not self-funding  immediately  and that there would  be a cost involved;
the contract with P showed  that the expected  annual return  in year one was £799.80, 
whereas the loan agreement repayments  were  £108.07  a month, or £1,296.84 over 
the year, so there would be a shortfall between the expected benefits and the loan 
repayments;
P said that Miss G had raised no concerns about  being pressurised into agreeing  to 
the installation  of the system and the associated finance, and she hadnt exercised 
her right to cancel the contract within the cancellation period. To support this, it had 
provided a satisfaction questionnaire in which Miss G had rated  the salesperson as 
5 out of 5, very satisfied;
having checked the Ofgem database,  the system had been  registered for the FIT and 
Miss G had been submitting readings  and receiving FIT payments;
P had reviewed the monitoring  device for the system, and this showed that since  
installation the system  had been  generating in line with the contract;
the system wouldnt increase Miss Gs electricity  consumption, and any increase in 
her electricity  bills would  be due to a change in lifestyle;
the contract with P clearly says that the inverter has a 20-year  warranty  and that 
HIES had separately provided  Miss G with her warranty  / guarantee;
the performance of the system and any deterioration are set out in the contract;
as part of her loan application,  Shawbrook  had completed a full credit check to 
assess Miss Gs credit  worthiness  and her ability to repay the loan. Miss G had met 
its lending criteria and the account  hadnt  been in arrears.  Shawbrook did offer to 
discuss Miss Gs ability to meet  her loan repayments moving forward;
Shawbrook didnt  pay any commission to P for introducing Miss G to it.
Unhappy with this response,  the CMC  referred the complaint to this service.  One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. During our investigation Shawbrook provided 
an appendix of documentation between Trading Standards and HIES in relation to P. Having 
considered all the information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had 
misrepresented the system to Miss G and found no reason  to uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN44516173The CMC didnt agree with the investigators  view. In summary,  it said:
the investigator hadnt considered  all the evidence submitted, namely the marketing 
literature which referred to systems as being  self-funding, or the RECC findings from 
December 2013;
the documentation provided  to Miss G was used  to directly mislead her and she has 
an annual deficit of around £800;  and,
the energy  savings  predicted by P are incorrect and her electricity bills have 
increased.
It also suggested that we speak to Miss G for her recollections. When our investigator spoke 
to Miss G, she told us:
she initially registered her interest  for the system through  an advert on a social media  
platform;
P visited her at her home and advised  her about her options;
the system was advertised as self-financing  and would pay for itself and be financed 
by a credit agreement;
the salesperson  for P told her that the quarterly payments she would receive would 
counterbalance her loan repayments;
she was told that during  the winter months she would have to top up the difference 
between the loan repayments  and the quarterly payments she would receive, but the 
summer months would make  up the shortfall so annually she would be paying out 
what she would receive;
once the system was paid for, which  she thinks was over the term of the loan, the 
money she makes would be hers;
her initial  interest in the system  was to reduce her electricity bills and she was told 
there would  be a reduction  in her energy costs. After the first quarter her electricity 
bills had doubled. When she contacted P to query this, she was told that it would sort 
itself out over time;
her energy bills have increased  from around £60 to around £140  a month;
it took around a year for her system  to be registered for FIT payments  as P didnt 
provide her with all the information she needed;
she has since had the system  inspected by two separate companies that have told 
her that the energy inlet from the national grid is higher than the output from the 
system. She was told that this meant that her appliances will only use electricity  from 
the national grid, rather than the system,  so the system wouldnt work in the way she 
was led to believe it would and would never be self-financing;  and,
her last FIT payment for the previous year was £378.25.
Ref: DRN44516174As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the case has been passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes  section  56 and section  75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services  bought  using credit. It states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly  be jointly and severally  liable to the 
debtor.
As Miss G paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction.  This means  that Miss G could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same  
way she could have  claimed against  P, the supplier. So, Ive taken  section 75 into account  
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations  between Miss G 
and P, as the supplier,  are deemed to have been  conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision  Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made  by one party (or his agent) to a second party which  induces 
that second party to enter  the contract, thereby  causing them  loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This states:
(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit  agreement 
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising  out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement)  is unfair  to the debtor  
because of one or more  of the following:
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights under 
the agreement  or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either before 
or after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement).
Ref: DRN44516175(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks  relevant (including  matters relating to the creditor  and matters 
relating to the debtor).
So, Ive considered whether a court might find that there existed an unfair relationship.
Miss Gs recollection of the sale
Ive listened to the call that Miss G had with our investigator and considered this along with 
the complaint  the CMC  submitted to Shawbrook.  Ive noted that Miss Gs recollections  do 
differ in some respects to the complaint letter submitted by the CMC. As an example, in the 
complaint letter the CMC refers to Miss G being unable to register her system for FIT 
payments and therefore not receiving any payments,  whereas Miss G told us that there was 
a delay in her system  being registered  for FIT payments of around a year,  but this was since  
resolved.
The CMC has also said that Miss G was cold called by P, whereas she told us that she 
registered her interest in the system through a social media platform before being  contacted 
by P.
Having said that, there  are some similarities between the complaint submitted by the CMC 
and Miss Gs recollection of the sale, for example  that the system would pay for itself over 
the loan term.
Miss G has decided  to be represented,  by a CMC, in her complaint to Shawbrook. The 
complaint letter submitted  to Shawbrook was seven pages in length  and set out in great 
detail the reasons for the section 75 claim and the alleged representations that were made 
that induced Miss G to enter into the contract.
The complaint letter is dated February 2017,  approximately 18 months after the date of sale, 
and I would expect  this to reflect Miss Gs recollection of what  happened at the time the 
system was sold.
Whilst I appreciate Miss G has spoken to our investigator and provided additional 
information that wasnt included in the initial complaint made  on her behalf, there is a 
significant time difference between the date the complaint was made and the conversation 
with our investigator. I think  this may explain  the inconsistencies I have highlighted above. I 
think that its reasonable to expect the CMCs letter to accurately reflect what Miss G says 
she was told and her version  of events at the time of sale, especially as the CMC has put the 
alleged representations in quotation  marks. So, in so far as there  are any discrepancies  that 
have a material impact on my decision,  Ive placed  more weight on the submissions made  in 
the original letter of complaint. Having said that, Im satisfied that Miss G was told that the 
system would be self-financing over the term of the loan.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and Miss Gs solar quote,  titled Your Personal Solar  
Quotation. Ive considered these in detail and whether they support  the alleged  
representations made  by P.
Ref: DRN44516176The quote  is a detailed document that sets out key information  about the system,  the 
expected performance, financial benefits  and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales  process  and is therefore relevant when considering  if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside  Miss Gs recollection of the sale.
Ive noted that the CMC  provided the quote when it made the complaint  to Shawbrook, so 
Im satisfied that Miss G did receive  a copy of this at the time the system was sold.
The credit agreement, which was also provided by the CMC at the time the original 
complaint was made, sets out the amount being  borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual  monthly repayments.
Ill now consider each of the alleged representations made as set out above.
The FIT payments
In the original letter of complaint Miss G says that she was unaware that she needed to 
register the system to receive FIT payments, and as a result of this, she has never been in 
receipt of the FIT payments.  If this were true, this would have a significant  impact on the 
benefits Miss G would be receiving from the system.
The CMC has subsequently provided  a screen  shot showing that Miss G has been in receipt 
of FIT payments from November 2016.
                                                       
This contradicts the claim in the original letter of complaint, and Im satisfied the screen shot 
shows Miss G was aware that she needed  to register the system to receive  FIT payments 
and that she subsequently went ahead  and did so.
Miss G has alleged  that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered,  or 
self-funded by her FIT payments.  Ive considered the quote that was provided  by P and 
considered whether this supports what she says she was told as I consider the quote was 
central to the sales presentation.
Page eight of the quote sets out the estimated income Miss G could expect to receive by 
way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into two tables. The first shows  the 
expected FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income  
over 20 years. My understanding  is that the system  would only receive  FIT payments for 20 
years and this is why 20 years has been  used in the quote.
                                                    
I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Miss G could expect  to receive 
a total income  in year one of £433.87  from her FIT.
Page 9 of the quote goes  on to look at the electricity savings  Miss G could expect from her 
system as well as any savings she would make  from taking out any optional  extras  including 
a voltage optimiser  and an OWL heating control.  The expected year one electricity savings is 
Ref: DRN44516177£365.93 and the combined  income  and savings in year one is shown as £1106.69. This is 
shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
The following  page, so page 10, has a section titled Repayments. This has three tables set 
out over 60 months,  120 months and 180 months.  The table for 180 months is highlighted  in 
orange as this is the length of the loan that Miss G entered into with Shawbrook. This table 
sets out that there are 180 monthly  payments of £106.32 due and compares the overall 
expected grand total from the system,  averaged over a monthly  basis,  versus the expected 
loan repayments.
           
I think the quote clearly  sets out the income  Miss G could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected  contractual  monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept  that the table doesnt  simply compare her FIT income  to her monthly loan 
repayments, it does  clearly set out that the overall income  she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income  and any additional  savings, would not be immediately  sufficient to cover 
her monthly loan repayments. Therefore,  Im not satisfied that she was told that her monthly 
loan repayments  would  be covered by the FIT income alone.
Total cost of the system  and expected benefits
Miss G has said that the cost of the system was documented  as £9,950.  She has said that 
this was done to mislead her as this figure  did not include any interest  associated  with the 
loan so hid the true cost of the system, £19,452.60.
Im satisfied that the quote provided  to Miss G makes it clear that the cost of the system  is 
£9,950. This is supported by the credit agreement  which sets out that the total amount of 
credit is £9,950 and goes  on to show that the total amount  payable  would be £19,452.60.
And as the quote provided  by P is clear  that there would  be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table above,  Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote  and the credit  
agreement, made it clear  that although the cost of the system  was £9,950, it would  cost 
Miss G more than this as she had decided to pay for it with a fixed  sum loan.
Ill now consider whether  P told Miss G that the system would not cost her a penny, and 
that she could  expect to receive a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £799.80.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system  versus 
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing 
the two.
Im satisfied that this table  shows that in the first year Miss G was expected to have made a 
loss of £10.21 a month and in the second  year this would decrease  to a loss of £4.16 a 
month. It wouldnt  be until the third year that the expected benefits would exceed  her 
monthly loan repayments, and, by my calculation, it wouldnt  have been  until around year 
five that she would have sufficiently recouped any previous  annual  losses and the system 
would be paying  for itself.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system  wouldnt  be self-funding from the start,  
and Im unable to conclude that Miss G was told that the system would not cost her a 
Ref: DRN44516178penny. I think the quote is clear  that there would be a difference  between her expected 
income and monthly  loan repayments.
In addition to this, page six of the quote has a graph illustrating the difference between  the 
expected income  and loan repayments:
Again, Im unable to conclude that the system would  not cost her a penny  as the graph, in 
my view, clearly illustrates the expected shortfall  between the expected income compared to 
the monthly loan repayments.
I do accept that Miss G was told that shed receive a year one benefit of £799.80 as this was 
the expected combined income  from FIT payments and electricity savings on her energy 
bills. Having  said that, taking into account the available evidence,  Im not persuaded that 
Miss G was led to believe that shed  receive  this sum in her hand. Im satisfied that the quote 
makes it clear that shed  have to make loan repayments and overall there  would be a deficit.
I also accept that Miss G was told by P that the system would pay for itself over the term of 
the loan. Page 12 of the quote has a table headed Estimated performance over 20 years:
        
This shows that by year 13 the overall benefits  that Miss G could expect to receive would 
have exceeded  the total amount  payable under her loan agreement. This table also sets out 
the panel degradation  rate so Im satisfied that P made her aware  that performance of the 
system would deteriorate over its lifetime.  The quote document also refers to any warranty 
associated with the system or the inverter and whilst Miss G has said she doesnt have a 
warranty, Im satisfied  that this is not the case.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Miss G that the system would pay for itself by 
year 13, as supported by the table above.  If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance  of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Miss G. The quote sets out that the system  is expected to produce  
2,912.85 kWh a year and this in turn would generate the income by way of FIT payments 
and savings in her energy bills, that Miss G could expect to receive.
Between 18 November  2016 and 2 December 2019,  the system generated a total of 9,526 
kWh. I have calculated that the system  generates, on average, 8.58 kWh per day or 3,131  
kWh a year.  This is higher  than the estimated generation provided in the quote, so Im 
satisfied that the system is performing in line with, or in excess of, the quote.
So, based  on this, I would  expect Miss G to be close to recouping any initial losses  from the 
system and for it to be paying  for itself. Miss G has said that this isnt the case  so Ive gone 
on to consider whether P have overstated the potential income  and savings Miss G could 
expect to receive by, for example using unreasonable assumptions.
The quote  P provided to Miss G was personalised to her specific  circumstances and used a 
number of underlying assumptions to calculate  the income and benefits she could expect to 
Ref: DRN44516179receive over the systems lifetime. The assumptions used included the expected annual 
generation in kWh from the system, the amount of energy  generated by the system that 
Miss G would use rather than buying it from her energy provider, therefore leading  to 
savings on her energy  bills and the expected increase in utility prices alongside the expected 
annual increase in RPI inflation.  The expected increase in utility prices  and RPI were based 
on the Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005  and 2014.
As set out above, Im satisfied that the system  is performing in line with the figure provided in 
the quote and therefore Im able to conclude, as supported by the FIT statements provided, 
that the FIT payments received are also in line with the figures provided in the quote.
The quote  sets out that Miss G was expected to use, or self-consume, 75% of the kWh 
generated by the system  each year. This in turn would lead to a first years annual  saving of 
£365.93. This amount of saving would  increase  each year in line with the ONS data Ive 
mentioned above.
Shawbrook, on behalf of P, have provided information from Miss Gs OWL monitoring 
system. It has explained that this system was used to monitor  the amount of kWh generated 
by the system along with the amount of kWh that were exported  back  to the National Grid. 
Therefore, any kWh that hadnt been exported to the National Grid would have  been  used, or 
self-consumed, by Miss G. The information  provided  from the monitoring system  shows  that 
the system generated an overall total of 5,186.8  kWh from the date of installation to around 
March 2017 with 828.7 kWh exported  to the National Grid. This means that Miss G had self-
consumed 4,358.1  kWh of the electricity that had been generated, or 84%, which is higher 
than the 75% P had estimated in her quote.
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied  that the estimates for the expected generation 
by the system and the percentage of energy  that Miss G was expected to self-consume were  
both reasonable  assumptions for P to have  made.
When estimating the future income  and electricity savings that Miss G could expect to 
receive from the system, P estimated that both energy prices and RPI would increase in line 
with the available information from the ONS. The figure used for energy price increases  was 
8.38% and for RPI was 3.22%. Ive considered the available information from the ONS from 
2015 to 2020 to see whether both energy  prices  and RPI have increased in line with the 
estimates provided by P. The data from the ONS  suggests that energy prices have 
increased by 3.7% and RPI by 2.56%.  Both of these  figures  are lower than the assumptions 
used by P and in my view explain  why she isnt receiving the financial returns  from the 
system that she may have expected.
The assumptions used  by P, as set out above, were based on the available information from 
the ONS  from 2005 to 2014. Therefore, I dont  think it was unreasonable for P to have used 
these assumptions to calculate  the expected financial returns  from the system.  Im of the 
view that this goes  some way to explaining why the system may not be self-funding  by year 
13 and certainly by the end of the loan term. Although I appreciate  Miss G will be 
disappointed by the financial returns from her system,  Im satisfied that this isnt due to P 
using unreasonable assumptions  when she entered into the contract  for the system.
S140A
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under s140A the Act.
Ref: DRN445161710A sufficient  inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed 
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent  found any misrepresentation 
and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions  used by P were reasonable, I think a 
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair  relationship under  the Act.
Further considerations
In response to our investigators view, the CMC said that all the evidence it had provided 
hadnt been taken into consideration. This included the marketing literature used by P along  
with the findings of the Renewable Energy  Consumer Code (RECC) non-compliance panel  
hearing from December  2013.
Ive noted that the marketing literature the CMC has provided has been supplied on all the 
complaints it has submitted to us about  P and isnt dated. Therefore, I cant conclude that 
this was provided to Miss G, or that it relates  to the time her panels  were sold.  Whilst it does 
refer to the system  paying for itself and being  self-funding, Im not persuaded I can place as 
much weight on this, especially when considered along with Miss Gs personalised quote. 
And, as I have explained above, at the time Miss G entered into the contract  with P Im 
satisfied that her system  would have been self-funding and pay for itself by year 13 of the 
loan.
The RECC non-compliance panel findings are from December 2013,  almost  two years  
before Miss G entered into her contract with P. Shawbrook has also provided information 
from Trading Standards, setting out that it had been working with P since  the findings to 
improve Ps sales process. This work  included  Trading  Standards  helping  P to enhance their 
business paperwork and documentation to ensure compliance with the relevant legislation.  
This has ultimately led to P receiving Primary Authority Status by the Secretary of State.
So, whilst I accept the RECC  findings  found concerns with Ps sales  practices in 2013, the 
evidence discussed  above indicates that Ps sales process, practices and documentation 
had evolved prior to Miss G entering  into her contract and I have to take account of the 
particular circumstances  of this case,  along  with the wider, contemporaneous evidence.
Miss G raised some concerns about Ps sales process, said that she was pressurised into 
entering the contract and fixed sum loan agreement,  and said a proper  affordability  check 
wasnt conducted and that she is now struggling to make her contractual monthly  loan 
repayments.
Based on the available evidence that has been  provided Im of the view that the sales 
process wasnt unreasonably pressured  and taking account of the overall  cost of the system 
alongside the length of the loan term, I dont  think the length of the meeting with P at 
Miss Gs home was unreasonable.
Im also of the view that the checks on whether the loan was affordable to Miss G were 
proportionate. I note that Shawbrook asked her to contact  it if she were struggling  with the 
monthly loan repayments. If Miss G does decide to contact Shawbrook I would expect it to 
treat her positively and sympathetically if she is in financial difficulty.
Miss Gs later recollections
Ref: DRN445161711As previously explained, Miss G has provided  additional information that wasnt  included in 
the initial complaint  made on her behalf and there  is a significant time difference between the 
date the complaint was made  and her later recollections. And as I think that its reasonable 
to expect the CMCs  letter to accurately  reflect what Miss G says she was told and her 
version of events at the time of sale, Ive placed more weight on the submissions made in 
the original letter of complaint.
Miss G has said it took around a year for her system to be registered for FIT payments. Ive 
noted that the first FIT payment Miss G received  was around 12 months after the system  
was installed at her home. This payment appears  to cover the period from installation to the 
date of payment,  so whilst  there does appear  to have been a delay  in the registering of her 
system for FIT payments,  Im satisfied Miss G didnt suffer a loss because of this.
Miss G has provided an up to date screen  shot of her FIT payments:
                                                 
Miss G has raised concerns that the overall  FIT payments she received in 2020, £378.25, 
were significantly  lower  than she had previously been receiving. Ive noted that in both 2018 
and 2019 Miss G has received three  FIT payments, with the last payment being in 
November/ December, whereas in 2020  she has only received two payments with her last 
one being in September. 
The payment she received  in March 2021 will have included the additional generation from 
the end of 2020. So, Im satisfied that the reason the total amount  she received in 2020 was 
lower than in previous  years was due to her not receiving  a payment around November 2020 
as opposed to any issues around the systems  performance.
Miss G has said that her main  reason  for taking out the system was to reduce her electricity  
bills. And contrary  to what she was told by P, her electricity bills have continued to increase. 
She has also said that two other solar panel  companies have inspected the panels and have 
told her that her home  appliances  will draw the electricity from the National Grid as opposed 
to the electricity generated by the system. To support this, she has provided  some of her 
electricity bills and a contract from a company Ill refer to as E for further works to the 
system dated August 2017.
Firstly, Ill consider the electricity statements that have been  provided. The statements  that 
have been provided cover from March 2012  to March 2016 and there is also a personal 
projection for electricity  usage for 2019.
The electricity bills show that from March  2012 to March 2016, the amount of kWh Miss G 
used increased  from 5,404  kWh to 9,050 kWh. Considering that the system wasnt  installed 
until October 2015, my view is that these statements show Miss Gs electricity  usage had 
been increasing before the system was installed. So, Im not persuaded that any increase  in 
her electricity use can be linked to the system.
The personal projection for 2019  shows that Miss G is expected  to use 12,495 kWh. I accept  
that this is around  a third higher than was being  used  prior to the system being installed. But 
given the OWL monitoring  system,  which showed  Miss G had consumed  4,358.1  kWh from 
the date of installation to around March 2017 , I dont think  theres evidence to support  a 
finding that the system is increasing her electricity consumption.
Ref: DRN445161712Miss G has also provided a contract for further works from E. She has said that E told her 
that this work was required  as her home appliances were using the electricity from the 
National Grid rather than the electricity  being generated by the system. The contract  has 
some handwritten information on it under  a heading Extra Products. The handwritten note 
appears to say PV+ with health check + volt read with a cost of £1,995.
The contract doesnt explain why the work  is needed  or, in my view, set out what  work will be 
undertaken. Having  considered this, alongside  the OWL  monitoring system  which  shows 
Miss G was using the majority of the electricity being  generated by the system, I cant  
conclude the system  isnt working as it should.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided  by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were  no untrue statements  of fact made by P that induced Miss G to 
enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold  this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June  2021.
Beth Wilcox
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4451617