K822xcomplaint
Mr V complained that his motor insurer, Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Ltd (LV),  
should have written-off  his car following  an accident, rather than arrange  for its repair.  Mr V 
thinks he lost out as a result of this  he now has a fully repaired car he thinks should have 
been written off, and this will affect  its value when he tries to sell it. He also complained  
about the standard of repair carried out to his car by LVs authorised repairer.
background 
Mr V had a motor policy with LV. His car was damaged in an accident and was sent to one 
of LVs authorised  repair firms. After collecting the car from the repairer, Mr V noticed some  
of the repairs  hadnt  been done properly, and there  was a problem with the two front seats.  
He booked the car into his local dealership for a service and was told the seats were unsafe 
and the car un-roadworthy.  LVs engineer  then inspected  the car and authorised further 
repairs.
Mr V also questioned if the car should  be written-off (known  as a total loss), both at the 
initial repair stage and later when further repairs were authorised.  However, LV said the cost 
of the repairs  was less than the market value of the car, and they wanted to repair  the car.
Mr V didnt agree with this decision, and was also unhappy with the poor quality of the first 
repair, so he complained to LV. They apologised for the way their engineer dealt with Mr V, 
and offered to pay him £100.00 compensation for the poor service  he received, but they said 
that it was their choice  whether to repair or scrap a car after an accident.  
Mr V was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to us. He also asked for 
compensation to reflect  the likely  loss of value to his car because  hed have to disclose, 
when selling, that it had been  in an accident  which he wouldnt have to do if the car had 
been written-off.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint,  but agreed LV were within their rights to 
choose to repair Mr Vs car rather than scrap it, and he didnt ask LV to do anything more.  
Unhappy with this outcome,  Mr V asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
I want to begin  by looking at whether LV should have written off the car rather  than arrange 
for its repair. Here, I can see when the car was first assessed by LVs engineer, the 
estimated cost of repairs was just over £7,000, very shortly  increasing to about £8,250. The 
extra work, undertaken by Mr Vs local dealership, brought  the total cost up to just over 
£11,200. This was against a car valued  at just under £15,500.
Mr V thinks  the seat damage should  have  been  identified if his car had been  properly  
assessed to begin with. He goes on to say, had this happened, the true repair  cost would 
have been known at the outset, and in those  circumstances LV should have written-off his 
car rather than repaired  it. Im afraid I dont agree with Mr V on this point. Ill explain why. 
Ill begin by addressing the cost of the repairs, and the issue  of the value of Mr Vs car. In 
this case, even after the extra work following the second repair, which  included  an amount - 
Ref: DRN44524712maybe about £1,000 from what I can see - incurred fixing  the poor workmanship of the first 
repair, the total cost to repair  Mr Vs car was still over £4,000 less than its value. So, whilst I 
agree LV were at fault for their engineers failure to spot the faulty  seats at the first repair 
stage, causing  extra expense, I dont  think this had a material effect on how LV dealt with the 
claim, or ultimately caused  any loss to Mr V. 
On the subject of repair  or write-off, Mr Vs policy  defines a Total  Loss as:
- the extent of damage to your car which means its uneconomical or unsafe  to repair 
or has been stolen  and not recovered
Here, the value of the car was clearly in excess of the repair  cost,  even after the second 
repair, so I cant say it was uneconomical to repair. I also need  to address what  cover the 
policy provides, and what it says LV had to do in the event of an accident. Mr Vs policy  
provides the following cover  in the event  of damage to the car:
- pay for repairs to your car; or
- replace what is damaged; or
- pay the market value of your car at the time of the damage.  When you accept this 
payment, your car becomes our property, unless we agree otherwise.
And, under the section dealing with how LV settles a Repairs claim, it says:
- Once we have details of the accident,  if the loss or damage is covered, well agree 
with you how to arrange the repairs to your car.
There is nothing to say when LV had to write-off  his car. The write-off section simply defines 
what a total loss is  damage uneconomical to repair. The damage section is also clear in 
giving LV a choice on how to deal with a damage claim  it can pay to repair,  replace whats 
damaged, or pay the market value of the car. And, LV confirmed to Mr V, in a response to 
his complaint and also during the repair process, they do at times repair  cars up to their full 
value  which they can do  rather than write off.
I understand Mr Vs concern that he now has a car the value of which,  he believes, has 
reduced by having  a damage history. However,  this isnt something  his policy covers,  and so 
isnt something LV needs to take into account  when  deciding  how to deal with his claim.
So, taken  together,  I agree with our investigator - LV was entitled to make  a decision to 
repair Mr Vs car when it did, both at the first repair stage, and even after the poor initial  
assessment caused  the repair cost to increase at the second stage. And, I also cant say LV 
is responsible for any loss in value that Mr Vs car may experience  as a result  of their 
decision not to write  off the car. So, I wont be asking LV to do anything  else in this regard.
However, I do want to consider the way LV and their approved repairers  handled Mr Vs 
claim, and the impact  this had on Mr V. I say this, in part, because  Mr V was without use of 
the car for the period between the two repairs. Im satisfied Mr V was provided with a 
suitable replacement  hire car during  both repair periods. However, when Mr V got his car 
back after the first, it was un-roadworthy - LV has accepted this. Whilst I dont know if Mr V 
suffered any financial  loss because of this, I think its more likely than not he would have 
experienced some inconvenience as a result  of not having the car in this period. And as well 
as this, Mr V clearly spent  time dealing with the after-effects of the poor quality first repair  
these are inconveniences he shouldnt have had to experience.
Ref: DRN44524713LV accepted their approved repairer provided an unsatisfactory service, and also apologised 
for the way that their engineer dealt with Mr Vs claim. LV paid £100 compensation to Mr V 
for this. However, taken  together  with the above, I dont think  this compensation provides a 
fair reflection of the poor service and inconvenience  Mr V suffered - I think  an increase to 
£250 better reflects the level of distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr V.
So, to summarise, I dont think LV did anything wrong in deciding  to repair Mr Vs car as 
opposed to writing it off. But I do think their offer of £100 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience should be increased  to £250.
So, in my provisional decision I said I was minded to ask LV to pay a further £150  to Mr V 
(£250, less the £100 already paid)  to compensate him for the poor service received, and 
inconvenience suffered as a result of the way LV dealt with his motor insurance  claim.
the response to my provisional  decision
LV havent  responded  to my provisional decision.
Mr V did respond,  but only to explain that LV have commenced proceedings to recover their 
outlay from the third party insurers. Hes aware they are claiming for repairs exceeding 
£15,000 and has asked them how they arrived at this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings. 
Dealing with Mr Vs response to my provisional decision, whilst he doesnt say this I presume 
 given the nature of his complaint  he is questioning why LV is claiming for repair  costs  of 
over £15,000 when the cost to repair his car was only just over £11,200. This isnt a 
complaint point as such, but I wanted to see if I could provide an answer to this question.  Ive 
now spoken to LV, whove confirmed the £15,000 figure is the total amount theyve paid out 
on the claim  as well as the money paid to fix Mr Vs car, it includes the costs of the hire 
cars provided to Mr V, and recovery and storage costs. I hope  that assists  Mr V.
As regards  my provisional findings  generally,  I havent received anything from either LV or 
Mr V to suggest I need to reconsider these. So, for the reasons outlined  in my provisional 
findings, Im satisfied LV were entitled to repair Mr Vs car, as opposed to writing  it off. I also 
think Mr V should be paid an extra £150  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  he 
experienced as a result of LVs poor service during the claim process.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr Vs complaint,  and I require Liverpool Victoria  
Insurance Company Limited  to pay a further £150  to Mr V (£250, less the £100 already paid) 
to compensate him for the poor service  received, and inconvenience suffered as a result  of 
the way LV dealt with his motor insurance claim.
Ref: DRN44524714LV should  do this within 28 days  of us telling it Mr V has accepted my final decision. If it pays  
later than this it should add interest  at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of my final 
decision to the date it makes payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019..
Mark Evans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4452471