K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  CETA Insurance  Limited took money  from their account to pay 
their caravan  insurance premium for the following year without their authority.
background
Mr and Mrs F had caravan insurance  which theyd arranged through CETA from around
2016.
In March 2019 CETA sent Mr and Mrs F a renewal  invitation which  said the policy  would 
renew automatically on 22 April. Mr and Mrs F noticed the payment hadnt gone through  as 
theyd expected. Mrs F rang CETA to amend some  policy details on 24 April and rang 
again the following day to pay the premium theyd  be quoted.
CETA took payment of the premium.  Mr and Mrs F say this was done without their 
authority. And they say it left them in a difficult position. They were away for the weekend 
and were relying on the money CETA took being  in their account and available  for them to 
spend.
They had to borrow  around £300  money  from a friend who they say charged them interest  
of around £60.
Mr and Mrs F complained  to CETA. CETA apologised for any confusion  it had caused 
in relation to the policy and the money  it took from Mr and Mrs Fs account.  It refunded 
the premium and sent a £20 gift card as compensation. It also offered to refund any 
charges Mr and Mrs F had incurred  including interest if they gave  evidence of the loan 
from their
friend and the interest paid on it. Mr and Mrs F were still unhappy so brought their 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought  CETA  had been  wrong to process the payment but felt CETA had 
done enough to put things  right so didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Mr and Mrs F 
didnt accept our investigators  opinion and thought  they were entitled  to more 
compensation for distress  and inconvenience. I reviewed the complaint  and recently issued 
a provisional decision  an extract  of which follows:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The renewal  of Mr and Mrs Fs insurance was due to be processed automatically on
22 April 2019. Its unclear  why this didnt happen.  CETA suggested this was because Mr 
and Mrs Fs payment card details werent  up to date. But Mrs F explained to CETA  
several times the card details hadnt changed. And CETA managed to process a 
payment later on. So it seems more likely CETA failed to process the payment at the 
time.
Mrs F was concerned  the caravan wasnt insured for a few days when the policy didnt 
renew automatically. CETA told Mrs F she and Mr F wouldve had a seven day grace  
period to pay the premium  and still be covered  for any claim they made during those few 
Ref: DRN48623922days. But Mrs F told CETA  shed been  worried about having no cover given the high value 
of the caravan and reports  of caravan thefts  shed  read about.
Mrs F rang CETA to discuss renewal  and some changes to the cover  and personal  
details. She was quoted a premium for the insurance. Before making  payment she wanted 
to discuss things with Mr F.
Mrs F rang back the following day expecting simply  to pay the premium. The adviser asked 
Mrs F a number of questions which she felt shed  answered the day before. She was on the 
phone for around 25 minutes when shed expected a short call to make payment. She was 
unhappy with how the call went and made a complaint. And she was disappointed when the 
adviser she spoke to was reluctant  to log a complaint. I think  the adviser shouldve  
explained more  clearly why he needed to ask the questions and acknowledged her 
complaint as shed  clearly  expressed she was unhappy with the service hed provided.
On the call Mrs F wasnt able to answer  a question about where  the caravan was kept. 
The adviser explained the answer  would affect whether the underwriter would provide 
cover or not. By this stage of the call, Mrs F was anxious to get to work. She mentioned 
shed look elsewhere  for cover. There was discussion  between her and the adviser about 
speaking later. From what Ive heard, and parts of the call recording are obscured, Mrs F 
didnt authorise  CETA to take payment for the premium at any time. CETA agrees it made  
a mistake in processing  the payment.
Mrs F spoke to another CETA representative  the following  day to discuss  her complaint 
which he said hed investigate. Mrs F was clear  on the call she hadnt authorised  payment 
of the premium. The representative asked  Mrs F if she wanted to cancel the policy. I think 
this shows he knew or at least suspected payment had been  taken. I think  the 
representative shouldve  told Mrs F this clearly on the call.
Mr and Mrs F say they took out a policy with another insurer. Since CETA had 
processed payment,  this meant theyd  paid out twice. Because of this they didnt have 
around £300
they were expecting to be in their account. If CETA had made clear theyd taken payment 
for the premium, Mr and Mrs F couldve taken steps  to avoid this.
CETA refunded the premium it had taken within a few days. But this was too late to avoid 
Mr and Mrs F being without the money they needed  for their weekend  away. I can 
understand this was inconvenient for Mr and Mrs F. It was fortunate their friend was able 
to help them. But I accept  it was embarrassing  for Mr and Mrs F to have to ask for help.
I think the interest  Mr and Mrs Fs friend charged is surprisingly high given this was a loan 
between friends and Mr and Mrs F shouldve been able to pay back the money quite  
quickly after CETA had refunded  the premium. So I think it was reasonable for CETA to ask 
for evidence  of the loan and the interest  Mr and Mrs F had paid. I dont think  the evidence
Mr and Mrs F have  provided shows very clearly the transactions they say happened.  But
CETAs agreed to pay Mr and Mrs F the £60 interest  based on what theyve sent.
Overall I think the service  provided by CETA shouldve been better. I acknowledge CETA 
sent Mr and Mrs F voucher for £20. Mr and Mrs F say they have no use for this. And bearing 
everything in mind,  I think CETA should  pay Mr and Mrs F £100 for distress and 
inconvenience to put things right.
my provisional decision
Ref: DRN48623923My provisional decision is that CETA Insurance Limited should pay to Mr and Mrs F
1.   The interest of £60 on the loan they took from their friend; and
2.   £100 for distress and inconvenience.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since Mr and Mrs F have accepted my provisional decision and CETA has no further 
comments to make,  for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I uphold  
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that CETA Insurance  Limited  should pay to Mr and Mrs F
1.   The interest of £60 on the loan they took from their friend; and
2.   £100 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 November  2019.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4862392