K822xComplaint
Mr L has complained  about  the loans he took out through MYJAR  Limited  trading as MYJAR 
(MYJAR). He says the loans were not affordable. 
Background
Mr L took nine loans from MYJAR; eight between December 2011 and May 2012 and one in 
September 2017. A summary of Mr Ls borrowing is shown below.
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidAmount
1 08/12/2011 23/12/2011 £100.00
2 01/01/2012 27/01/2012 £100.00
3 19/02/2012 06/03/2012 £200.00
4 08/03/2012 28/03/2012 £300.00
5 29/03/2012 16/04/2012 £300.00
6 16/04/2012 01/05/2012 £300.00
7 03/05/2012 20/05/2012 £300.00
8 21/05/2012 29/11/2012 £300.00
4 years and 10 months gap
9 28/09/2017 outstanding £400.00
The adjudicator concluded that the overall pattern of borrowing suggested  Mr L had become 
persistently reliant  on short-term loans from loan 7 onwards.
MYJAR didnt accept the adjudicators conclusions.  It said his view lacked explanation and 
wasnt clear what evidence  the view was based  on. 
I issued my provisional decision on 23 August 2019  explaining why I was thinking of 
reaching a different conclusion to the adjudicator  and upholding Mr Ls complaint in relation 
to loans 5 and 6 as well as loans  7 and 8. I also explained why I was upholding loan 9, but 
for different reasons.
MYJAR accepted my provisional decision and offered to pay redress.  Mr L has confirmed he 
has nothing further  to add. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. For completeness,  I 
have set this out below.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN46947282The Office  of Fair Trading  (OFT) was the regulator when MYJAR lent to Mr L in 2011  and 
2012. The Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when MYJAR lent to Mr L in 
2017. 
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook  for credit-
related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific  to consumer credit 
providers, such as MYJAR. Prior to that, the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) set 
out the relevant guidance.
I am not quoting all the specific  regulations  here, because I would expect MYJAR to be 
familiar with these through previous ombudsman decisions, particularly recent  decisions,  
which set these rules out in more detail.
It is important  to note that neither the OFT nor the FCA didnt,  and doesnt,  specify  exactly 
how an assessment of affordability  is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the 
types and sources of information to use needed  to be enough to be able to reasonably 
assess the sustainability  of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other  words the assessment  needs  to be consumer-focussed.  It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender  of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequence  as a result of the 
decision to lend.
As set out in the guidance, the risk to the consumer  directly relates to the particulars of the 
lending and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would  likely need to be flexible. That is to say, what is sufficient for one 
consumer might not be for another, or indeed  what might  be sufficient for a consumer in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same  consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment  of creditworthiness  to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect  a lender to require more  assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include, 
but are not limited  to:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN46947283Loans 1-8
MYJAR told us that, when  the loans in 2011 and 2012 were taken, it asked Mr L for details of 
his income and housing costs. I think those checks were proportionate for the first three 
loans. Mr L was in the early stages of his relationship with MYJAR  and the amounts that 
Mr L needed to repay  were relatively modest  compared to his declared income.
But by loan 4 MYJAR  ought to have been specifically asking Mr L about any other  
outstanding short term loans he had, in addition to his income  and expenses  details.  I say 
this because Mr L had taken three loans in as many  months and was now asking for an even 
larger amount just two days after repaying  his third loan. MYJAR should  have been 
concerned at this point  that Mr L was becoming  reliant on its loans and checked whether he 
had other  short term debts that might impact on his ability to repay these. However,  I cant  
see that Mr L had any outstanding commitments of this nature, so I think MYJAR would still 
have found loan 4 to be affordable.
Whilst I think by loan 5 MYJAR ought  to be doing  more; for example fully reviewing Mr Ls 
finances and verifying  the information he provided,  I actually think  when MYJAR agreed 
loan 5, it ought to have  realised - without the need  to delve into Mr Ls finances - that Mr L 
was having difficulty  repaying his short term loans  and couldnt really  afford  to repay  them in 
a sustainable  way. I say this because:
Loans 2, 3 and 4 had all been  repaid late.
There was a pattern  emerging  of loans being taken out shortly after the previous one 
had been repaid.
The loan amounts were increasing.
Loan 3 was for twice the amount of loan 2 and was repaid  a day late. Loan 4 was taken out 
two days after loan 3 was repaid and was for a greater amount  now three times what Mr L 
had initially  borrowed.  When Mr L applied for loan 5, he had only paid off loan 4 on the 
previous day (which was 5 days after the scheduled  repayment date).  Loan 6 was taken the 
very same day that loan 5 was repaid (which was 3 days after the scheduled repayment 
date).
On each occasion, Mr L was borrowing further  to meet the gap repaying the previous loan 
had left in his finances  and the amounts were  on an increasing trend. He was regularly 
missing the scheduled repayment date. Mr L was showing signs of being  unable to meet his 
repayments without  having to borrow further. In these circumstances, I think  MYJAR ought 
to have realised there was a significant risk Mr L wouldve been unable to sustainably meet 
his repayments  for loans  5 and 6.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of MYJARs  lending history with Mr L, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR  should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Ref: DRN46947284Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ls case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 7. I say this because:
There was an emerging pattern between loans 1-6 of Mr L taking new loans shortly 
after repaying previous ones. I think that by loan 7, MYJAR  ought fairly and 
reasonably to have  regarded  that pattern as established.
So MYJAR ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr L was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Ls indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr L wasnt making any real inroads to the amount  he owed MYJAR. Loan 8 was 
taken out 5 months after Mr Ls first loan. And it was for 3 times the amount  he 
initially borrowed. 
Mr L had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to MYJAR over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr L lost out because MYJAR continued  to provide borrowing from loan 7 
onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ls indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
The sheer number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Mr Ls 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 7 and 8 as well as loan 5 and 6 and MYJAR 
should put things right as set out below.
Loan 9 
Due to the length of time between loan 8 and 9, its not unreasonable  that MYJAR  might  
have considered Mr Ls finances to be back on track  when he applied  for loan 9. So I have 
considered this loan as the first in a new chain or new lending relationship.
For loan 9, MYJAR asked  Mr L about  his credit commitments and other expenses, as well as 
his income and housing costs. It then made  adjustments to those figures using its own 
internal affordability  calculations. It also carried  out a number of credit searches.  
However, I note that MYJAR assessed Mr Ls monthly  affordable amount as £464  and the 
loan repayment  was around £489. So I think MYJAR  ought  to have realised the loan wasnt 
affordable in a sustainable way for Mr L based on the information it collected.  It seems Mr L 
wasnt able to repay this loan according to the agreement. I think this was foreseeable and 
so MYJAR  was irresponsible to lend in this instance.
Ref: DRN46947285Putting things right
MYJAR  shouldnt  have  given  Mr L loans  5-9.
If MYJAR has sold the outstanding  debt it should buy this back  if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps.  If MYJAR is not able to buy the debt back then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve  the results outlined below.
A.Add together the total of the repayments  made  by Mr L towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without  an outstanding  balance.  I understand  this is 
all loans  except  loan 9.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments made by Mr L which were 
considered  as part of A, calculated from the date Mr L originally  made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint  is settled.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 9, and treat any 
repayments made  by Mr L as though  they had been repayments of the principal  on 
loan 9. If this results  in Mr L having made  overpayments then MYJAR should refund  
these  overpayments with 8% simple  interest* calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.  
MYJAR should then refund the amounts  calculated in A and B and move to step 
E.
D.If there is still an outstanding balance  on loan 9 then the amounts  calculated in A 
and B should  be used to repay this balance remaining on outstanding loans. If 
this results in a surplus then the surplus should  be paid to Mr L. However if there  
is still an outstanding  balance  then MYJAR should try to agree an affordable  
repayment  plan with Mr L.
E.Remove  any adverse information MYJAR  has recorded on Mr Ls credit file in 
relation to loans  5, 6 and 9. The overall pattern of Mr Ls borrowing for loans  7 
and 8 mean  any information recorded about  them is adverse, so MYJAR should  
remove  these loans entirely from Mr Ls credit file. If MYJAR has sold loan 9 it 
should ask the debt purchaser to do the same and remove adverse information it 
may have reported about his loan. 
*HM Revenue  & Customs  requires  you to deduct  tax from this interest.  You should  give 
Mr L a certificate  showing  how much  tax youve  deducted,  if he asks  for one.
Ref: DRN46947286My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Mr Ls complaint as Ive explained above and in my 
provisional decision. I require MYJAR  Limited  trading  as MYJAR to put things right for Mr L 
as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4694728