K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains Santander UK Plc is unfairly  holding onto funds he says are rightfully his. He 
wants access to the funds and compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused.
background
Mr A held a savings account and basic bank account with Santander. Mr A currently resides 
in a country other than the United  Kingdom. 
In 2017, Santander reviewed both accounts  and removed Mr As access to them.  It decided  
to close the accounts,  and eventually  allowed Mr A to withdraw the funds from his savings 
account. But it decided  to retain  the funds in the basic account, which  amounts to more than 
£119,000.
Mr A complained to Santander. He said the funds in the basic account were payments for 
goods supplied  by his familys company, for which he is a director.  Hed had a mortgage  
application declined  to purchase a property in the United Kingdom, so he was using  the 
account to save  to buy a property  outright. Santander decided  the information  hed provided  
wasnt enough to establish what he was saying.  
Mr A brought his complaint to our service,  and in April 2018 an ombudsman issued a final 
decision not upholding his complaint.
In September  2018, Mr A, via his legal representative, sent further information for our service 
to consider  information which had been provided to Santander after the final decision had 
been issued. They say the information means a new complaint is being brought, enabling 
our service  to again review Santanders  actions. Specifically,  they say Santander wasnt  
clear about  what information  it wanted  from Mr A. And, if Santander had serious  concerns  
about Mr A, why allow him to access funds in the savings account.
A new complaint  was set up, and an investigator considered  what  Mr A had said. In 
summary they found:
-Santanders original  decision  to retain  the funds and the previous information it had 
asked for were already subject to a final decision. They  were  no longer open  to 
review with our service.
-Mr A had provided information to Santander  after the final decision, including further 
hand-written invoices.  Santander had considered  this information, but again found it 
wasnt sufficient to release the funds. We were able to consider a complaint  about 
these actions.
Ref: DRN45373192-Santander were able to continue to retain  the funds. The further evidence Mr A 
provided wasnt enough to establish a relationship between  him and the underlying 
providers of payments  into the basic account.  Santanders request for further 
information to demonstrate the journey of each payment  into the account was 
reasonable.
-Santanders actions  were in line with the terms and conditions of Mr As basic 
account.
Mr A strongly disagreed with this outcome and hes asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
Mr As legal representative has asked me to consider specifically  their point that Santander 
cannot rightfully hold on to the funds, and it is for the National Crime Agency (NCA) to 
confiscate the funds thought a court order.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr As complaint  for broadly similar reasons to those given by the investigator.
Before I discuss my findings, I must be clear that Im not reviewing the subject matter  which  
was decided by another  ombudsman. That decision was final, and I do not have the power 
to look into the same complaint again.
Mr As legal representative says that because evidence has been submitted which wasnt 
previously presented, this means there is a new complaint. But its important to clarify 
exactly what is meant by a new complaint for our purposes.
Santanders original  decision  to retain  the funds from Mr As basic account, and the prior 
requests for information it made to Mr A wouldve been for the previous ombudsman to take 
into account when  making their final decision.  So, the point that Santander ought to have 
been clearer about what information it wanted from Mr A isnt something I can consider. 
When a complaint regarding the same subject matter is brought to our service, we may 
decide to dismiss it. The dispute resolution  rules (DISP) which  form part of the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys  handbook permit  an ombudsman  to dismiss a complaint where:
DISP 3.3.4B  (4) states:
The subject matter of the complaint  has previously  been considered or excluded  under the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  (unless  material new evidence  which  the Ombudsman 
considers likely to affect the outcome has subsequently become available  to the 
complainant. 
The above  makes clear that a new complaint in relation to the subject matter which was 
previously decided could  arise in specific circumstances. But Im satisfied those  
circumstances dont  apply  here.
Ref: DRN45373193I find instead that the evidence which was submitted after the previous final decision ought to 
have been available to Mr A before  that decision was made. So, in this sense it is not new,  
and it does not allow for a reconsideration of Santanders actions.
Im satisfied, however,  that Santander  ought  to review its previous decision in light of 
information or evidence it hasnt  seen  before. Santander reviewed the evidence  Mr A 
presented, and found it wasnt enough to release the funds to him. Its this matter which my 
final decision  concerns.
 
Santander has a wide variety of regulatory and legal obligations it must meet  when providing  
accounts to its customers. Those obligations do not only apply to when an account  is 
opened, but they are ongoing,  and may even persist  when an account is closed. To these 
ends, Santander  might need  to review an account,  gather information and ask questions  of 
its customers, including asking for evidence to establish the true origin  of funds.
Santander may also need to take proportionate steps to give effect  to its obligations.  This 
could include freezing an account and/or removing funds. If Santander  didnt take 
appropriate action  when necessary, it could risk serious sanction.
Mr A says hes provided sufficient evidence  to demonstrate his bona fides and to show  the 
payments into the basic account derive from the sale of goods  made  through his familys 
company. And, while Mr As representative recognises Santander has important obligations, 
its unreasonable for it to hold on to the funds.
Mr As representative also says it is not for Santander to confiscate the funds.  Such action 
ought rightfully to be taken by a body like the National Crime Agency (NCA) by means  of a 
court order.  In the absence of this, the funds should be returned to Mr A.
Ive borne in mind what Mr A has said about the payments into his account   that they were 
sometimes made by people unknown to him who were purchasing  stock  on behalf  of 
customers of his company  who he does know.  And Ive looked very carefully at the evidence  
he has presented. 
Mr A has provided information to indicate  he is a director of his familys company. And hes 
presented a large number of handwritten invoices for the sale of goods commensurate  to the 
market he says the company operates in.  He has also provided  a number of documents  
related to the import of goods, as well as copies of media articles that suggest he is an 
established businessman  and philanthropist.  
But Ive balanced  the above  alongside  all the other information and evidence  available  to 
me. And having  done so, I find that Santander has a valid cause for concern, and its refusal 
to release the funds to Mr A is proportionate.  Im satisfied the information its been sent so 
far isnt sufficient for it to conclude that releasing  the funds wouldnt risk breaching  its legal 
and regulatory  obligations. Im also satisfied  its request for further evidence  is reasonable.
Mr As representative says Santander  is unable to hold on to Mr As money. But Ive 
considered Santanders actions in full, and I find its so far done what  it needs to in order  to 
retain the funds.  I dont  find that only the NCA  can hold on to funds by means of a court  
order.
Ref: DRN45373194I appreciate Mr A wants to know the exact  basis  for Santander maintaining  its position  with 
regard to the funds.  But Im satisfied Santander isnt under  an obligation to disclose its 
reasons in full in the circumstances of this complaint. And as result,  I will not be directing it to 
disclose those reasons  now.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2020.
Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4537319