K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that a car she financed through an agreement with Advantage Finance Ltd 
(Advantage) was not of satisfactory quality when  supplied.  Shed like them  to repair  the 
faults shes identified.
background
Miss B took receipt of a used vehicle in August 2016. She financed  the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with Advantage. At the point of supply the car had completed nearly 
93,000 miles and was eight  and a half years old.
Miss B contacted Advantage in November 2018. She said shed only recently  become  aware  
that she may be able to make a claim about her car being of unsatisfactory  quality and she 
detailed the following issues  to them:
at the point of supply  and shortly afterwards she agreed with the dealer that theyd 
fix:
oa problem with the i-drive button
oan air con fault
oa seat belt adjuster  problem
oan electronic handbrake fault
they resolved  all issues except the fault with the i-drive button which persisted
in November 2016 a dealership confirmed the following faults:
othe same  problem with the i-drive button
oa gearbox fluid leak that would need  a strip down to identify the cause
oan engine seal leak that would need a strip down to identify the cause
in February 2017 the handbrake failed again and a garage  identified a actuator 
module  would need replacing
She said the i-drive, gearbox  and engine seal leaks and the handbrake problem were  all 
issues that were present  at the point  of supply and she said that Advantage should therefore 
pay to fix them.
So Advantage arranged for an independent  inspection of the car. The inspector noted that 
the car had now completed 118,693  miles. He identified faults with the handbrake, gearbox 
and engine leaks; the i-drive button and faulty  air conditioning. But he thought these issues 
were normal  for a car of this age and mileage and as the car had passed a couple of MOTs 
since Miss B had taken  receipt of it he didnt think  there was evidence  anything was wrong  
that affected its roadworthiness or fitness  for purpose at the point of supply.
So Advantage rejected Miss Bs claim.  They said shed now had the car for two years and 
four months and it had completed 25,000  miles in that time. Indeed they said the car was 
now 11 years old and had travelled  118,000  miles so they saw nothing that would suggest it 
was faulty at the point of supply - when they said they were responsible for its quality.
So Miss B decided to refer her complaint to this service and our adjudicator provided his 
opinion. He thought it was fair to say that what constituted satisfactory  quality in a vehicle 
depended on its age and mileage at the point of supply. He therefore thought it was 
reasonable to suggest Miss B couldnt expect the same standard  in her car as she would 
expect of a brand new car. He noted shed managed to travel a considerable distance in the 
Ref: DRN49636282car since she took receipt of it and he thought this was indicative that there  werent inherent 
issues. 
He noted that the inspector hadnt  thought there  was evidence  the car was of unsatisfactory  
quality either. He suggested that the consequences  of potential wear  and tear was 
something that needed to be taken into consideration when purchasing  a used vehicle and 
the respective  maintenance costs  should  be factored into the purchasing decision. He said 
that even if a fault was present at the point  of supply it didnt necessarily mean the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality. He thought, in this case,  the car had been of satisfactory quality  and 
that Advantage therefore didnt need to take any further action.
But Miss B disagreed.  She provided a detailed response in which,  amongst other issues  she 
said:
owe hadnt considered  the Consumer Rights Act (2015) s 11. Goods  to be as 
described, particularly  in light of the multi-point pre-sale check that had been carried  
out
othe adjudicator  had put too much weight on the independent engineers  findings
othered been  no mention of the oil leak from the intake manifold 
oif the various  faults were considered together, instead of in isolation, it would be 
apparent the car was not fit for purpose
othe handbrake and oil leaks  were fundamental issues affecting  the proper functioning 
of the car. Regardless of the age and mileage covered  she should be entitled to 
expect the car to be free of such issues at inception
othe vehicle was mis-sold to her as the multi-point pre-sale check had suggested  it 
was free from faults
And with these issues in mind she asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss B but I agree with the adjudicators view and for similar 
reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file and the relevant legislation,  but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed  to take it on board and think  about  it but because I dont think  I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Miss B acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. The relevant law says that the 
car should have  been of satisfactory  quality when supplied. If it wasnt  then Advantage are 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
But when I consider whether a car is of reasonable quality I need  to bear the following issues 
in mind:
Ref: DRN49636283owhilst  Advantage are responsible for the cars condition  at the point of supply they 
are not responsible for faults  that develop  afterwards.   
oa car thats not proven suitably durable may be viewed as not having been 
satisfactory at the point  of supply
othe age and mileage of the vehicle at the point of supply will impact  on what  could 
reasonably be considered  satisfactory  quality
Whilst I note there have been  more reported  faults with this car I think its reasonable to 
concentrate my comments on the four principle issues and then to also consider whether the 
full spectrum of faults, identified on this vehicle,  suggest its proven  to be suitably durable.
the electronic  handbrake failure
Miss B first notified the business of this in September  2016. The fault appeared to be 
rectified but Miss B says it was back in February 2017 and Ive seen evidence  to suggest 
that may have been the case  in January  2017.
But Im not persuaded this was most likely to suggest the handbrake hadnt  been fixed. The 
car wouldve covered  considerable  mileage  in the four or five months that separated  the 
failures and I think its more likely a reoccurrence wouldve been  highlighted earlier.
Im supported in my view by the independent  inspector who didnt feel there  was evidence of 
a fault with the handbrake at the point  of supply and I can see that the multi-point check  
didnt highlight an issue with the handbrake and neither  did the MOT  that was carried  out in 
June 2016.
So I dont  think theres sufficient evidence that the handbrake was faulty  at the point  of 
supply.
the gearbox leak and engine  seal failure
Again these appear to have been  highlighted within a month  or so of supply but the 
independent engineer doesnt think they are issues that would render the vehicle unfit for 
purpose given  the significant age and mileage of the car at the time  and I agree.
Whilst they may have  been issues that were  present on the vehicle at the point of sale I think  
a reasonable person would accept  that there would be some faults on a car of this age and 
mileage and I think its fair to say that they come into this category rather  than being  more 
severe problems.
I say that because the independent engineer has said so but also because  its clear Miss B 
has subsequently driven the car for upward of 20,000 miles without  significant  breakdown  
and because I can see the gearbox  fluid levels and engine  oil levels  were  part of the pre-sale 
multi point  check and they were recorded as okay. I think if there was a significant leak to the 
gearbox or a significant oil leak this wouldnt have been likely to be the case   the levels  
would have been diminished.
So Im not persuaded that either of these issues  suggest the car was of unsatisfactory  
quality
the i-drive  button
Ref: DRN49636284I dont think the functioning of this button would be so important as to render a car of this age 
and mileage unfit for purpose. It doesnt  mean the car would fail an MOT  for instance.
But if the business had promised to repair it I think it would  be reasonable to ask it to honour 
its promise. But Ive not been provided  with sufficient information to demonstrate  this was 
the agreement  from the beginning and Im therefore persuaded by the view of the 
independent engineer that this fault is not sufficient  to suggest the car was of an 
unsatisfactory quality  when supplied.
durability
Its clear this car has experienced several issues since inception  and Ive seen additional  
reports from garages that highlight a slight  oil leak into the manifold; brake  replacements  and 
glow plug problems amongst other issues.
But Im not persuaded these issues when taken  as a whole suggest this vehicle  has not 
been suitably  durable.
The car has now completed over 25,000 miles in Miss Bs care; its 11 years  old and has, in 
its lifetime completed almost 119,000  miles.  So I think a reasonable person would expect it 
to experience some issues that require attention, as I think its fair to suggest  components  
will be starting to wear.
misrepresentation 
Miss B also says that the car was misrepresented to her because  she was led to believe it 
was fault free. She says the multi-point check is an example  of this misleading literature but 
Im not persuaded this suggests the car was fault free: simply that it passed  the checks  
covered in the scheme. The checks didnt for instance look specifically at the i-drive button.
Overall, Ive not been provided with sufficient  evidence  to suggest the car was mis-sold in 
any way to Miss B.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4963628