K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited ("FICL") mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance ("PPI") policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card that Mrs F took out in 2002. 
Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility  for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mrs F didnt agree 
saying, in summary, that:
If the policy had been explained to her, she wouldnt have taken it out.
Shes had other PPI complaints which have been upheld.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Fs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Fs complaint  and Ill explain  why.
I can see from the application form that there was a separate section headed Protecting 
your Account and that Mrs F has signed, separately  from the main application, to confirm  
that she wanted it. I can see that the box had been  crossed to indicate where Mrs F should 
sign, but below the box says, only sign this box if you required Account Cover. Mrs F 
wouldve had the opportunity to review the form before she signed  it. So, on balance, I think  
its most  likely FICL made Mrs F aware  she had a choice about buying  the policy and she 
chose to take it. Im not surprised Mrs F cant remember this, given it took place so long ago.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs F so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable  for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs F got the information she needed  to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions or limits  on the PPI cover. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the cost of the PPI would have  put 
her off taking  out the cover.
Ive taken into account that Mrs F recalls she wouldve received six months full pay followed 
by six months half pay from her employer if she couldnt work due to sickness  or an 
accident. But the PPI wouldve covered her until she returned  to work, so couldve been a 
useful benefit  in addition to her existing arrangements. It also covered her if she became 
unemployed.
Ref: DRN48256692Ive taken into account what Mrs F says about  her other PPI complaints being upheld.  But 
Ive looked at the individual circumstances of this complaint and the outcome of any other 
complaints shes made does not change my conclusion  here.
Overall I dont think Mrs F has lost out by anything FICL might have done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4825669