K820x#14complaint
Miss B complained about Openwork Limited,  represented by Just Mortgages Direct  Limited  
(trading as Just Mortgages). She paid a broker fee of £495,  which  she wants  refunded.
background
Miss B was a first time buyer. She had an offer accepted on a property  and made an 
appointment to see an adviser from Just Mortgages  on 2 November.  Theres a disagreement 
about what happened at that appointment. 
Miss Bs version is that this was a quick meeting and she was given lots of information at 
once and had no time to process what shed been told. She said she was told to pay £495  
so she could get a mortgage.
Just Mortgages  version  is that the appointment took an hour and a half. The adviser said he 
went through every point  to help the client and meet compliance requirements.  Hes 
provided a list of around 12 topics which he said he covered,  including fact finding, 
affordability, dealing with costs, and the timeline for home buying. The adviser  said Miss B 
wanted to go ahead  quickly so he booked her in for the second appointment the next day, 
and gave her literature to read overnight.
Miss B and the adviser had a second appointment on 3 November. Theres  a disagreement 
about this meeting too.
Miss Bs version is that this was another quick 45 minute meeting early  in the morning, and 
she felt pressurised to pay £495 on the spot. She said she wasnt told why she was paying 
the fee, and assumed shed have  to pay that anywhere.
Just Mortgages  version  is that the meeting lasted from 9.45 am to 11.15 am. The adviser 
said the sign-up  appointment  started with discussing whether  there  was anything the client  
didnt understand.  The decision in principle  was completed and the adviser said they 
discussed the mortgage options, and Miss B wanted  to proceed.  He provided a broker fee 
agreement which Miss B signed. She paid the £495 broker  fee. The adviser  submitted the 
mortgage application to the chosen  lender the same day.
On 5 November,  Miss B asked Just Mortgages for a refund. She emailed the next day to say 
she hadnt understood what  she was paying  for, and shed since  been told by a financial 
adviser that the fee wasnt necessary. Miss B said she had a right to a refund because of a 
two week cooling off period. She said she didnt want  to cancel the mortgage  application, but 
she just wasnt accepting  the charge.
Just Mortgages  didnt agree, and pointed out that it had secured her a mortgage offer within  
four working days. Miss B said she could have done that herself and complained formally on 
14 November.
In her complaint, Miss B said shed  been  given a lot of information  and she hadnt 
understood everything the adviser  had said. Shed felt under  pressure  to pay the £495, and 
she now realised she hadnt  needed  to speak  to any adviser.  She said that the adviser 
hadnt told her the fee would be non-refundable.  Miss B told the broker  that she was aware 
of her consumer rights  including a 14 day cooling  off period and she said she therefore 
demanded a refund  of the £495 fee.
Ref: DRN48906142Just Mortgages  explained  that the 14 day cooling off period applied  to a mortgage offer,  but 
not to the mortgage application. It pointed out that the fee was for the work  carried out to 
source and submit a mortgage application,  and no cooling  off period applied.  
In its final response,  Just Mortgages said that Miss B had been given a Client  proposition 
brochure which confirmed a fee would be payable for using  the service,  and she wouldnt 
receive a refund even if the mortgage didnt go ahead. It said that at the second  
appointment, shed  been  given a Fee Agreement. Shed  confirmed her understanding  and 
agreement to the fee by signing this. Miss B had paid the fee and a receipt  had been sent to 
her in the normal way. Just Mortgages said the terms of the fee had been clearly  and 
accurately disclosed,  and shed signed  her understanding and agreement. It pointed out that 
she had a responsibility to ensure that she understood  any documents before signing them.
Just Mortgages  also said that the broker had fulfilled his obligations by obtaining a 
successful mortgage  offer,  and hed done  work  to achieve this.
Miss B wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She said she wanted an apology  
from Just Mortgages, and a refund of the £495  fee.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. She looked  at a number of documents, 
including the information disclosure document which said that Just Mortgages advisers 
would make a recommendation after assessing  a customers  needs,  and the minimum fee 
would be £495.  The other documents the adjudicator looked at included  the fee agreement  
dated 3 November, which Miss B had signed, and the decision in principle, full mortgage  
application, and suitability letter.
The adjudicator noted Miss Bs comments about being a first time buyer and feeling  
pressured. But she pointed out that there  had been two appointments, so Miss B had had 
time after the first appointment to decide whether to go ahead with Just Mortgages. She 
could also have got in touch with her bank account provider to see what  they could do. 
The adjudicator noted that Miss B had said the adviser wanted to recommend a different 
lender, but Miss B had said she wanted to go with her bank  account  provider. So Miss B 
argued the adviser hadnt done any work.  The adjudicator didnt agree, and said the adviser 
had proceeded  with the lender Miss B had requested.
The adjudicator also noted Miss Bs comments that other advisers, or going direct to her 
lender, would have been  cheaper.  The adjudicator  said she couldnt assess the fairness of 
the amount of the fee, but only whether Miss B had been aware of it and had authorised it. 
The adviser had done the work and she thought  it was reasonable that Just Mortgages 
hadnt refunded  it.
Miss B wasnt satisfied. She said that other people had told her shed get the fee back  if she 
referred the complaint to this service.  She said shed  signed the fee agreement, but hadnt 
realised what shed  signed, and was misled  into signing it.
Ref: DRN48906143my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What Miss B was told about the service and fee
I find that the documents provided  to Miss B told her what service  shed get from Just 
Mortgages. The document  called  Just Mortgages  our mortgage  and insurance 
proposition is clear and doesnt hide behind jargon. For example,  it says:
Which service will we provide you with?
We will advise  and make  a recommendation for you after we have assessed your needs
What will you have to pay us for our service?
A fee of up to 1% of the loan will be charged,  payable  on application, subject to a minimum 
fee of £495These fees are subject to the terms and conditions of your signed fee 
agreement.
And that fee agreement, which Miss B signed  on 3 November, says:
You  and the adviser now agree that:
You engage them to act for you to help you obtain  the loan
In return for providing these services to you, you will pay the following to the adviser: a fee of 
£495 which is payable  once your loan application has been submitted to a lender
In the event that the loan does not proceed to completion for whatever reason a fee of £495 
will be due.
So I find that it was clear to Miss B that shed have to pay £495 for the service,  and she 
wouldnt get it back. She signed the form to accept the terms set out. I recognise that Miss B 
says she was a first time buyer,  but she still had the responsibility of making sure she 
understood and accepted whatever she signed.  I dont consider the document she signed 
was unduly technical, but if Miss B didnt understand it or accept it, she shouldnt have 
signed it. I find that she had had time between the first and second appointments to read the 
information provided, and if she wasnt happy  with it, she could  have postponed or cancelled 
the second appointment.
Appointments 
Ive considered the conflicting evidence about  the two mortgage appointments. Where 
evidence conflicts,  I make my decision on what I thinks most likely to have  happened. Here, 
I think its more likely that the appointments did take longer than the quick meetings 
described by Miss B. Shes  said she was given lots of information,  so this would have taken 
a while.  The adviser has been clear in listing out the things  he raised in the second 
appointment  and they are things  which Id expect an adviser to cover in such an 
appointment. Finally,  I note that the meeting on 3 November started at 9.45am. And the 
automated card receipt  for Miss Bs payment is timed at 11.11 am. So I think  the advisers  
version of the length of the meeting  is more likely  to be accurate.
Ref: DRN48906144The length  of the meetings isnt, of course,  a determining factor. As Ive said above, what 
matters is that Miss B was told what service shed  get, and what  shed have to pay, and that 
it wouldnt be refundable  and she signed  to accept this. But the length  of the meetings 
makes it more likely  that the adviser did take the time to carry out the service fully. This is 
also borne  out by the fact that the appropriate mortgage documents  were completed, and 
the application sent off to the lender  of Miss Bs choice, the same day. As Just Mortgages  
pointed out, it obtained a mortgage for her in four working days.  So I find that Just 
Mortgages carried out the service  for which Miss B had paid.
Miss Bs request for a refund
 
When Miss B first complained, she told Just Mortgages she still wanted to go ahead  with the 
mortgage application, but wanted the fee refunded. She then cancelled the application but 
Just Mortgages  still wouldnt  refund  her. The proposition  document said:
Our refund policy for mortgage fees
If we charge you a fee and your mortgage  does not go ahead,  you will receive  no refund of 
the fees you have paid.
This tallies with the fee agreement which Ive quote above, which says the same thing.
So I find that Just Mortgages was under no obligation to provide a refund. It had provided the 
service, and it certainly wasnt under any obligation to put through the mortgage application 
and then refund the fee. And the terms set out that Miss B wouldnt get a refund if the 
mortgage didnt  go ahead,  so the situation  didnt change when Miss B cancelled the 
application that had been made for her. So I find Just Mortgages wasnt  obliged  to refund her 
on these grounds.
Miss B also said the reason for her request was that she was given lots of information which 
was a lot to take in, and she felt under pressure. Ive found above that she had time to 
consider this and could  have cancelled the second  appointment  or asked more questions.  
Miss B also told Just Mortgages  that she demanded a refund because  she was aware  of her 
consumer rights including a 14 day cooling off period. But this didnt apply in Miss Bs 
circumstances, where  she went to a branch to discuss the service on two occasions,  signed 
to accept the terms, and received the service shed paid for. It wasnt  open  to her to ask for 
her money back within 14 days in this situation.
A further  reason which Miss Bs given was that the adviser didnt do any work, because the 
mortgage application went to her own banking  provider. I dont agree with this. The 
documents show that the adviser took time to go through  all the necessary mortgage  
documentation and carried out the service including submitting the mortgage application. 
Miss B told the adjudicator that shed told the adviser that she wanted to go with this lender, 
and I agree with the adjudicator that the adviser changed his recommendation to fit with Miss 
Bs preferences. But the detailed discussions with Miss B, and preparation of the necessary 
mortgage documentation and submission of the mortgage application, all prove  that the 
adviser did do the work for which the fee was payable.
Ref: DRN48906145Finally, Miss B told us that other options would have  been cheaper.  I cant comment on that, 
as my task is to determine whether  or not Just Mortgages did anything  wrong.  It was 
Miss Bs choice to use Just Mortgages,  and once  shed signed up to their terms and 
conditions, and paid the fee, it wasnt open  to her to get a refund for the service shed 
already received.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I do not require Openwork Limited, 
represented by Just Mortgages Direct Limited  (trading  as Just Mortgages), either to 
apologise to Miss B as she requests, or to refund the £495  fee she paid for its service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.  
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4890614