K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Coventry Building  Society (CBS) mis-sold them two payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policies.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs C bought  the first policy in March 1999 sometime  after taking out a mortgage. 
They took it out alongside further  borrowing but due to the time that has passed, its not clear 
how Mr and Mrs C applied for their mortgage. CBS say the PPI policy  was taken  out in 
branch. 
The policy in 1999 provided cover for Mr C only (not Mrs C) for accident, sickness,  and 
unemployment  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £100 a month  
towards Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage balance in the event  of a successful claim. At the time, it 
cost £5.72 a month.
In May 2003  Mr and Mrs C took out some further  borrowing and a PPI policy alongside  it. 
CBS have confirmed  the PPI was taken in branch. Again because of the time that has 
passed since the sale, CBS dont hold any paperwork  in relation to the original mortgage or 
the further borrowing. For both sales this is understandable as businesses arent required to 
keep records indefinitely.  
In 2003 the policy also provided  cover for Mr C only (not Mrs C) for accident,  sickness,  and 
unemployment  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £100 a month  
towards Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage balance in the event  of a successful claim. Mr and Mrs C 
were given three months free cover and after this period  came  to an end, it cost £5.20 a 
month.
CBS isnt able to provide the actual  policy documents,  so I have used the available policy 
documents which are closest to the dates of sale. For the 1999  sale I have used a policy 
document which pre-dates the sale and have also looked at the one from slightly  after the 
sale took place.  For the 2003 sale I have used a slightly earlier dated policy document. But 
in both cases I think these  likely  represented the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Cs 
policies.
At the time of both sales in 1999  and 2003,  Mr C was employed as a valet.  He told us as so 
much time had gone by, he couldnt recall  exactly how much  sick pay he was entitled to, 
which is completely understandable given the time thats passed. In the questionnaire  to this 
service Mr and Mrs C said they both had around  £500 in savings. Mr C has told us about  
glandular fever he had in 1961 and some other health conditions  from which  he fully 
recovered, and he has explained that by 1999  he was in good health.
CBS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in September  2003. 
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Cs representative says:
Ref: DRN45515702CBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs C 
wouldnt have taken  out the policies  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs 
Cs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  CBS should have 
told Mr and Mrs C about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means CBS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs C and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policies only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr and Mrs C received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations for the sale in March 1999
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Cs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint. I will also set out below the relevant considerations for the sale which  took place 
in May 2003  separately.  These are slightly different to the considerations Ive taken into 
account for the sale in 1999.
Ref: DRN45515703The sale of the first PPI policy took place in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards 
Council (GISC)  published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general 
insurance products  like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC  Code, the 
FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance  conduct rules 
(ICOB and ICOBs)  arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance 
(PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like CBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
Ref: DRN45515704of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so CBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
relevant considerations for May 2003  sale
Again as above, when considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into 
account: relevant  law and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
relevant codes of practice; and, where  appropriate,  what I consider to have been  good  
industry practice at the time of the second sale in 2003. 
This sale took place  in May 2003, which again was before  the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated by the FSA in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB and ICOBS)  
arent applicable to this complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in September 2003. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
CBS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like CBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs 
Cs case.
Ref: DRN45515705There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so CBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If CBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs C with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policies were appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether CBS gave Mr and Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policies, 
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policies and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs C, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs C 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs C 
and CBS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs C know they had a choice?
CBS had to make it clear  that the PPI policies were optional in 1999 and in 2003.
Looking first at the sale in 1999. CBS doesnt have all the paperwork from the time of the 
sale. But it has been able to provide an example  copy of a separate PPI application form, 
which likely needed to be completed at this time to set up the policy.  On the example form 
theres a space to select who should  be covered and the total benefit required and there  was 
a choice about the type of insurance  cover. I think this most likely represented the paperwork 
Mr and Mrs C saw and completed  at the time.  Mr and Mrs C would also have had to 
complete a direct debit  mandate to set up payment for the PPI. The payments would likely 
Ref: DRN45515706have appeared  on Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage statements. If theyd wanted to question  what  
these charges were, they could have done so at any time. Theres nothing to make me think 
they did this.
In 2003 CBS say that a separate application  form would  need to be completed for a policy. 
CBS has sent a copy of the form from the time. I think this more  likely represented what Mr 
and Mrs C saw and completed. On it there  are a number of options, including the option to 
decline the PPI. The form needed signing and dating. I also think  its more likely Mr and Mrs 
C signed the form to say they wanted  the PPI. CBS has also sent a copy  of a direct debit 
mandate which Mr C would have also needed  to complete to make  his payments for the PPI 
directly. These payments would have appeared on Mr Cs statements and if hed wanted to 
question it, he could  have  done so sooner. I havent  seen  he did this. 
I also note that both the policies were in Mr Cs name only which indicates to me they had a 
choice about who should be covered. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs C knew both the 
policies were optional  and they agreed  to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did CBS provide advice in 1999  and 2003?
CBS says it didnt  provide  advice during either  sale. Mr and Mrs C have completed a 
questionnaire to this service saying advice was given. But I can also see that Mr and Mrs C 
dont remember everything  that happened  which is understandable as so much time has 
passed. Looking  at what happened when CBS sold Mr and Mrs C the PPI, Im not 
persuaded that it provided advice. The sample application forms, which  likely  represented  
what Mr and Mrs C had to complete at the time,  dont indicate to me that it was likely a 
tailored recommendation was made for the PPI or that advice would have been provided  to 
them.
This means  CBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs C. Instead, it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs C were given a broad description of what 
both the policies intended to cover (that is that the policies would protect their payments if Mr 
C was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs C would have  
taken out the policies  without any sense of what they were  for and of how much  the 
premiums might be.
But as theres not much  evidence from the time of sale I cant  say whether CBS gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the 
exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs C agreed to take out the policies. 
So I dont  think CBS gave  Mr and Mrs C sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policies, including 
Ref: DRN45515707drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Cs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Cs. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Cs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs C about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Cs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs C have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that CBS ought to have done either. 
what effect did CBSs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs C? To what extent did Mr and 
Mrs C suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that CBS didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold both these policies to Mr 
and Mrs C. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude 
they suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs C would have  still taken  out the policies, had CBS done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs C say they would not have taken  them out and believe I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As both sales were non-advised sales, Mr and Mrs C had to weigh up in their own minds  the 
cost of the policies against the benefits  offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt 
insure against the risk of Mr C being unable  to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs C chose to take both policies out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs C thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs C have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
Ref: DRN45515708Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs C knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policies, I cant say CBS told them the exact premium for either policy at 
the point they applied  for them. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs C would have 
been told the cost before  the policies started  and they paid for the first policy  for a number  of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with CBS at the time, or reconsidered  their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs C would have found the costs unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure for both policies  during the meeting in which they agreed to 
the policies.
In addition, Im not persuaded  CBS made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs C would get back in 
return in the event Mr C made a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Cs 
expectations about what the policies  would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient 
to meet  their mortgage payment) were  significantly  different to what  the policies actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs C thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
Both policies excluded claims relating to medical conditions  or disease that Mr C 
knew about or should reasonably known  about on the start date or for which  Mr C 
had received treatment, advice  or was referred for investigation during the 12 months 
before the start date and which recurred within 12 months of start date of the policy;  
The policies limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr C 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr C be unable  to 
do his job, or any paid work for which Mr C was reasonably qualified  as certified by a 
doctor;
Both policies protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining  term 
of the mortgage.   
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs C pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policies werent  as good as they thought and they might  have decided not to proceed.  
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might 
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs C from 
taking out the policies.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of each sale shows  that 
the policies werent  fundamentally  wrong for them.  Mr C was eligible for the policies benefits 
and they provided  cover  that, despite their limitations and exclusions, couldve proved  
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr C wouldve  been caught by any of the significant exclusions   Mr C 
didnt have any pre-existing  medical conditions and was in permanent  employment. So, I still 
think he had some good reasons to take the policies out.
The policies didnt  exclude back or mental health  conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
Ref: DRN45515709grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr and 
Mrs C would have expected to make  a disability claim on the policies without first providing 
some evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr and Mrs C had known they could only claim for disability if Mr C was not only unable  to 
do his job but also unable to do any other work  which in the insurers view, he might  
reasonably be qualified for and as certified  by a doctor, it might have played  into their 
thinking about what they would do. And I accept it may have given them  pause  for thought  
although given  Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances , on balance, I still think they would have  been  
interested in taking out the cover.
 
CBS may not have  told Mr and Mrs C that any claim they made  would be limited to a 12-
month period  for both policies.  This may have differed from what they expected and might 
have hoped for  but 12 months was a likely a longer period than Mr C would have received 
full sick pay for and his statutory redundancy entitlement  was also significantly less than 12 
months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs C would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr C be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by either policy. The policies allowed for multiple claims to be made, they could help 
reduce their outgoings  at a difficult and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed 
at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs C would still have taken out the policies. The policies were  sufficiently 
close to what its likely  they thought they were getting and provided benefits  that would help 
them manage the consequences if Mr C was made redundant, or unable to work  through 
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that Mr and Mrs 
C would  have taken  out the policies in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Cs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs C would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Cs circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position Mr 
and Mrs C found themselves in as a result of both the sales was the same position  they 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN455157010Mr and Mrs C believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policies. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs C in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policies, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude CBS should  pay Mr and Mrs C compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs C think CBS misrepresented the terms of the policies in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
CBSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why CBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  CBS gave Mr and Mrs C, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1999  and 2003 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Cs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find CBS negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs C and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that CBS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs C in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint about the policy sold in 1999 or in 2003. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 January  2021.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4551570