K820x#14complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about the sale of a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  he took out 
when he re-mortgaged  with Newcastle Building  Society (Newcastle BS). 
background
Mr D re-mortgaged with Newcastle BS in November 1992 and at the same  time took out a 
PPI policy  to cover his repayments.
Mr D has now complained  to Newcastle BS that the PPI had been mis-sold as he said he 
thought he had to take out the PPI to get the funds  he needed. Newcastle BS says it was 
made clear the PPI was optional and it was suitable  for his circumstances. So it didnt agree 
the policy was mis-sold.
Mr D brought his complaint to this service  and our adjudicator  said they didnt think the PPI 
had been mis-sold. 
Mr D wasnt happy with this and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ds case.
Newcastle BS said the mortgage and loan with the PPI were taken out in branch. But Mr D 
says he spoke to the business on the phone and then completed and submitted his 
application by post.
I have seen the actual application form Mr D completed and other documents that would 
have been provided to Mr D at the time. I think it likely Mr D took out the PPI by initially  
speaking to Newcastle  BS on the phone  and the application form being returned  by post.
Mr D says he thought  he had to take out the PPI in order to get the mortgage and as soon as 
he found out the PPI wasnt essential  he cancelled the policy. The policy was cancelled in 
May 1998.
On the application form there is a section which addresses the PPI. This states that the PPI 
is recommended and then asks some questions about what level of cover, introducing  the 
options with: Would you like this valuable cover for: ..The wording suggests this PPI was 
being offered  to Mr D and he had choices. The section also refers  Mr D to the details  of the 
cover and premiums in the leaflet that would  have been attached. By saying it 
recommended the policy Newcastle BS wasnt saying Mr D had to have it, it was just 
saying that it would be a good  idea for Mr D to take it out. 
Also the leaflet Mr D would have received explained  what the PPI covered and indicates the 
various options that can be selected.  
So there is nothing  to show Mr D was told he had to have the PPI and I think at the time he 
should have known he could choose  whether  or not he wanted  it.
Ref: DRN46823262I have also seen a letter from Newcastle BS to Mr D dated 16 March  1994. This states that a 
check has been made and no request to cancel  the PPI could be found. This letter  goes on 
to say If, after consideration, you still wish to proceed with the cancellation, please complete  
and return the enclosed form.
This letter suggests that in 1994  Mr D contacted Newcastle  BS about cancellation of the PPI. 
Clearly it could find nothing to show Mr D had already asked for this to be done, but 
Newcastle BS gave  him the opportunity to cancel at that point by returning  a form. So this all 
suggests Mr D did know he could cancel  the policy as it was an optional insurance.
In 1998 Mr D did return the cancellation form and the PPI was cancelled.  I know  Mr D has 
told us he cancelled the policy in 1998  as this was when he found  out it was optional. 
However the evidence I have  seen suggests Mr D knew the PPI was optional  and could be 
cancelled, and it seems  he made  enquiries about  cancelling the policy  in 1994,  four years  
before he actually did send back the cancellation form.
I have also thought about Mr Ds circumstances at the time he took out the PPI.  The 
information provided indicates he was eligible for the PPI. 
There is also information available  from Mr Ds employer showing he was entitled to 8 
weeks sick pay and confirming he was employed and had been with the company for seven 
years. 
I think the PPI was suitable for Mr Ds circumstances and he would have been able to benefit 
from the policy if he had needed to. It would  have paid out if hed been unable  to work for 
reasons of sickness in addition  to any sick pay he may have received from his employer, and 
for a much longer period. Also it would have  helped financially if hed ever been made 
redundant, as any redundancy pay could  have been  used for other essential living costs. 
So even if the information provided  by Newcastle BS at the time of sale wasnt  as good  at it 
could have been, I think full and detailed  information  wouldnt  have  made any difference to 
Mr Ds decision  to take out the PPI. 
Im satisfied based on what Ive seen  he chose  to take out the PPI, he was eligible  for it and 
it was suitable  for his circumstances. The cost was set out separately  on the mortgage offer, 
so he knew what he was paying for it. Therefore  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint that the PPI was mis-sold 
by Newcastle Building Society mis-sold.  
. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4682326