K820x#14complaint
Mr P instructed Get Claims Advice Ltd (GCA) to make a claim  against  a financial advisor for 
the mis-selling of a pension. The claim was successful but Mr P is unhappy with the services 
GCA provided to him. 
background
Mr P was advised to transfer his pension into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).  In 
2015 he instructed  GCA to make  a pension mis-selling claim against his financial advisor.  
Because the financial advisor was no longer trading, GCA had to make  the claim to the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).  Mr P also instructed another company 
to transfer his pension away from the SIPP, as this wasnt a service  GCA could provide.
GCA worked  on a no win no fee basis, charging  a percentage success  fee on any 
compensation Mr P received. Mr P received  an interim  payment of just over £5,500  from the 
FSCS in June 2017 and GCA  charged their fees on this. Mr Ps pension was transferred 
away from the SIPP in 2018 and, in February  2019,  he received his final payment from the 
FSCS - almost  £36,000. GCA  invoiced him for their fees on the final payment.
Mr P has complained that GCA didnt  have the authority  to pursue his claim; that they didnt 
contact him between June  2017  and February 2019;  and that they were rude to him and his 
financial advisor on a phone call in October  2018  when he cancelled their services.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator.  
Our investigator found GCA had provided a fair and reasonable service.  She felt theyd 
pursued the claim against the financial advisor,  and Mr P had given his authority for them  to 
do this. She also felt GCA had kept Mr P reasonably updated  throughout his claim. Because 
no call recordings  were available she couldnt  say what was actually  said on the October 
2018 call, but GCA  required cancellation  to be in writing and she hadnt  seen any evidence 
of this. Because of this, she didnt think GCA needed to do anything and that their fees were 
rightfully due.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator. He said his complaints had been misunderstood and 
his complaint was that he hadnt  been  put back in the same financial situation  he wouldve 
been had he not transferred his pension into a SIPP. Hes specifically commented that:
He instructed GCA to claim compensation because of bad financial advice, and this 
claim was to be made against the financial advisor. But GCA also claimed against 
the SIPP provider.
GCAs advice was inadequate and misleading because they didnt fulfil their promise 
- hes now at a considerable financial detriment because of this.
GCA  couldnt transfer the pension, and he instructed another company to do this  
they liaised  with the FSCS about this, not GCA.
The phone calls GCA said they made  during  2018 didnt happen and no voicemails  
were left.
Ref: DRN47838142my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ive seen that Mr P signed three  Letters  of Authority  with GCA in May 2015, allowing them to 
contact the financial  advisor, the SIPP provider and the Financial Ombudsman Service  on 
his behalf. These authorities said GCA  would carry out a detailed review  of the 
circumstances surrounding  the advice of Pension Transfer(s) into a SIPP. They also said 
the authority  is enduring  until cancellation  has been  received in writing. In September 2015 
Mr P signed  GCAs Terms of Engagement,  which confirmed a 20% plus VAT success fee.
Ive also seen that, in March  2017,  GCA submitted  Mr Ps claim to the FSCS. The claim 
related to advice given by [a financial advisor]  to transfer their previous personal pensions  
into a self-invested personal  pension plan. It also said that Mr P was looking to be restored 
to the position he would  have been in but for the negligent advice.  GCA  also sent the FSCS 
a claim form, signed by Mr P in February 2017, which said the claim was against the 
financial advisor and confirmed the details  of the SIPP provider.
Based on the above, Im satisfied that GCA made  the claim against the financial advisor.  Ive 
not seen anything to show that GCA  later amended  this claim to include the SIPP provider, 
or that they made a separate claim against  the SIPP provider. The FSCS couldnt  have  
considered a claim against the SIPP provider, as theyre a trading company, and the FSCS 
only deal with companies that are no longer trading.
The claim was successful  in June 2017.  In making  the interim payment the FSCS said they 
couldnt finalise  the claim as it wasnt  yet clear what Mr Ps losses would be.
Mr Ps losses wouldnt  be known until his SIPP matured, was confirmed to have no value or 
was transferred into another pension. Mr P instructed another company to transfer  the SIPP, 
because GCA didnt offer this service,  and the transfer completed in 2018. It was at this point 
the final losses could  be calculated. The final payment Mr P received in 2019 was triggered 
by the SIPP  transfer, but it didnt relate to the SIPP transfer or the work done by the 
company who transferred  the SIPP. The final payment resulted from the claim made by GCA 
on Mr Ps behalf, and the work they did in preparing this claim  without this work  there  
wouldnt have been any interim or final payments. For this reason I agree GCA are entitled 
to charge their fees on both the interim  and final payments.
Mr P invested about £39,600 in the SIPP  and he received compensation totalling almost  
£41,500 from the FSCS.  The compensation from the FSCS was based  on their standard  
calculations for claims of this type. Mr P also received  the residual value of the SIPP 
transferred into his pension. While he has had to pay GCAs fees and for the other company 
to transfer his pension, these costs  are not something the FSCS will compensate him for. 
Because of this I cant say that GCA didnt fulfil their promise of getting  him the 
compensation he was due.
Mr P has said that GCA didnt call him in 2018,  although GCA  said they did. Copies of the 
call recordings  between GCA  and Mr P arent available.  When  Mr P spoke to GCA there 
wasnt a requirement  for them to record calls or to keep any recorded calls. Because  of this, 
the lack of call recordings  doesnt mean GCA  are trying to hide something.  I cant uphold a 
complaint on the lack of call recordings  alone.
Ref: DRN47838143But I have seen that GCA wrote to Mr P on 15 February 2018,  telling him they were still 
monitoring the situation, and that any further claim against the financial advisor would be 
automatically made when  required. I feel that GCA couldve  been clearer in this letter, telling 
Mr P that this would  be when the SIPP had been  transferred. But I dont think them  not 
telling Mr P this means they misled him.
Ive also seen that GCA wrote to Mr P on 10 July 2018 and told him they could only claim the 
final amount from the FSCS once his losses were  crystallised. This letter  gave the clarity that 
couldve been in the February 2018  letter. In a follow up letter  on 17 July, GCA told Mr P that 
his SIPP  had been valued and it may take a few months for his claim for further losses  (the 
final payment) to be completed.  On 11 October  GCA wrote  to Mr P and told him that the 
FSCS are expecting to make the additional payment shortly.
Its not disputed  that a conversation took place on 18 October 2018. Mr P says GCA were 
rude, and GCA say that the financial advisor  was rude and hung  up. Without the call 
recording I cant say what was actually  said by whom. Mr P has also said that he cancelled 
GCAs services during this call.
The Letters of Authority and Terms  of Engagement Mr P signed  in 2015 say that cancellation 
has to be in writing. I havent  seen  anything to show that Mr P cancelled in writing. But if he 
did, I would  still say that GCAs fee were due. This is because,  in October 2018, all of the 
work had been  done and the FSCS  were calculating the final amount  of compensation due 
to Mr P. It wouldnt  be fair to allow  someone to cancel after all of the work has been done, 
but before  the bill is produced, and to say this means the bill doesnt have to be paid.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ps complaint about Get Claims Advice  
Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4783814