K822xcomplaint
Mr K has complained about Marshall Motor Group  Ltd. He isnt happy  that it hasnt repaired 
his car following a claim under his motor warranty.
background 
I considered this complaint and outlined my thoughts and the background to this case in my 
provisional decision as follows;
Mr K made a claim under  his motor  warranty which was declined  so he complained to this 
service. His complaint was considered by an ombudsman and Marshalls were told to deal 
with his claim under the warranty and to pay him £1,000 compensation.
Marshalls paid the compensation but decided not to repair the car. This was because  the 
car had sat unrepaired  for so long that further repairs  were required. So it offered to pay 
Mr K the cost of replacement, which it valued  at just over £12,000,  less £1,400  for what it 
called conditioning  costs.
Our adjudicator looked into things and told Marshalls  to give Mr K the market value of his 
car (£14,592), plus interest and to pay £300 compensation in acknowledgement of the 
further delay.
As Marshalls didnt respond or finalise things the matter has been  referred  to me for a 
decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im minded to uphold the 
complaint, Ill explain  why.
The ombudsman decision was in September  2017  and things had already been  drawn out at 
that stage. So, although I can understand why it couldnt repair the car, I wouldve  expected  
it to do all it could to finalise things as quickly as it could. 
Instead it didnt  act or respond to the adjudicators view about paying the equivalent market 
value of the car and to allow Mr K to retain  the salvage (for which  there would have been a 
cost for the salvage value)  if he wished.  
Indeed, I understand that Marshalls have,  in recent  times, tried to return  the car even though 
it highlighted that that wasnt a realistic  prospect. And it did this without any real 
communication with Mr K or this service which is surprising.
As such,  I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this 
case, is for Marshalls to pay Mr K the market  value of his car adding interest from the date 
of the previous ombudsman decision to the date of settlement. I know Marshalls want  to 
reduce the figure paid for conditioning costs but it hasnt  provided any evidence  of pre-
existing damage  so I dont  think that would be fair. I say this as Ive seen the pictures 
provided by Mr K that suggest his car was in good order  and I havent  seen any evidence 
from Marshalls to the contrary.
Ref: DRN42333402As it appears that the car has now been  fully repaired  Marshalls  can simply sell the car and 
recover some of its costs. But as it has been fully repaired, or close  to being fully repaired, it 
wouldnt be fair to offer Mr K the retention of the salvage. He would have to take the car as it 
is in full and final settlement.  And as I envisage  that there could be further  problems with the 
car, as it has been sat so long, I think the fair thing  to do is pay Mr K the market  value.  
I also think that Marshalls should  pay Mr K an additional £500 compensation for the clear  
hassle, stress and inconvenience  he has been  caused including  his loss of enjoyment  
throughout.
I know Mr K feels that he should  be compensated for the reduction in the valuation of the 
car. But as Marshalls  will have to pay the market value from September 2017 plus interest, 
Im satisfied that he has been  adequately  compensated.
replies
Both sides responded to the provisional  decision. For his part Mr K believed that the 
compensation level should be increased  to reflect the fact that he has had to use public 
transport, taxis, friends and family throughout. And to reflect the disappointment of Marshalls 
not advancing things as agreed. Plus,  Mr K thought that he should  get simple  interest from 
the day he first told Marshalls about the problem or he would like to receive  £10,000 and his 
car back.
While Marshalls  said that it had looked to repair the car previously. But once  it realised the 
repairs would cost more  than the value  of the car it offered Mr K £12000 in lieu of repair.  
Mr K rejected this and asked for a value of about £21,000 so the matter was again referred 
to this service.
As discussions were ongoing  about  the value  of Mr Ks car it decided to repair the car, 
including replacing  the engine, which it says was ready for Mr K in May 2018  but he refused 
to accept it back. So Marshalls say that it has fulfilled  its obligations  from the original 
decision by repairing the car and previously  offering to purchase the car in lieu of repair.  
Marshalls feel that to pay the retail  value of the car now it has repaired it is unjust and that it 
cant resell the car as it isnt the legal owner of it. And it feels that compensation isnt 
appropriate as Mr K has caused  most  of the delays as it offered a cash  settlement and then 
repaired the car. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments afresh to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Although  both sides  have made  
further representations the issues they have raised  predominantly stem from arguments  that 
have already been considered in forming  my provisional decision. But I will elaborate a little 
further on the issues raised.
Although Marshalls  offered  a cash-in-lieu settlement for Mr Ks car it didnt offer the market 
value of the car which was highlighted by our adjudicator when it first made its offer.  And this 
was many months after the original decision was made. And given the long passage of time 
it had become clear  that Mr Ks car had a number  of difficulties  as it had stood idle. Im 
surprised that Marshalls didnt pay the market  value of the car at that time which wouldve 
naturally brought Mr Ks complaint to a close. 
Ref: DRN42333403Instead, it prolonged things before going  on to repair the car. Marshalls say that it was ready  
to be delivered in May 2018 but Ive seen communications  to this service that casts  doubt on 
that time line. But, in any event, given the clear  problems  the car had, and the ongoing 
difficulties Mr K has faced, I can understand his suspicion about the quality of the repairs  
undertaken and the roadworthiness  of the car. And I havent  been provided with anything  to 
evidence that all the problems had been fixed and that the car was in good retail condition.  
I know Mr K also feels that the level of compensation  should be increased  and that he 
should receive interest from the day he first told Marshalls about  the problem he had. But 
Ive considered all of these issues previously and Im satisfied that the redress  suggested in 
my provisional decision is fair. Furthermore, he has suggested a payment of £10,000  and 
the return of his car. But I think that would leave  him in a better  position  financially so I dont 
think that would be fair either.
So, overall Im satisfied that now the car has been fully repaired Mr K can transfer  ownership  
of the car to Marshalls.  And it can then sell the car and recover a large part of the costs  it 
will incur  in paying Mr K the market  value of the car from September 2017  (the date of the 
original final decision). It should  also pay £500 compensation for the clear hassle, stress and 
inconvenience caused.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Marshall Motor 
Group Ltd to pay Mr K £14,592 plus 8% simple interest from 8 September 2017. And pay 
£500 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4233340