K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about esure Insurance Limiteds decision to settle a claim as a fault 
claim under his car insurance policy. 
background
Mr M made a claim to his insurer,  esure.  He said he opened his car door in a supermarket 
car park and another  driver collided into his door while driving into a space next to his.
Mr M believes he wasnt at fault for the incident. Mr M said there  was damage later identified  
to the door lock which he believes  was accident related. esure didnt agree. It settled a third 
party claim against Mr Ms policy  as a fault claim.
Our adjudicator thought esure had acted reasonably.  Mr M wants an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. 
The adjudicator explained that we dont decide liability as this is the role of the courts. 
We can look at whether an insurer has reached its decision reasonably and in line with the 
policy. 
Mr Ms policy with esure has a very common term which says esure  can settle  the claim as it 
sees fit. We dont disagree with this term in principle,  provided the insurer can show its 
treated its customer fairly. 
Mr M said that he contacted one of the stores at the car park where the incident  happened 
and they told him they had CCTV. So he asked esure to obtain the footage. Mr M said he 
didnt claim at the time as he thought the damage  to his car was minor  but he later noticed 
the door lock was damaged. He said a locksmith advised him it may have been damaged by 
the incident. 
esures notes show that it received a claim from the other drivers insurer. Due to the area of 
damage to their car  and based  on the circumstances described, esure said it would settle 
the claim as a fault claim against Mr M. I think esure reached its decision reasonably. The 
onus was on Mr M to check it was clear before he opened his car door.  As the other driver 
was driving into a car park space next to Mr M, they were correctly proceeding. There were 
no independent witnesses to the incident.  So esure said it didnt have a strong enough case 
to dispute liability.  
esure settled  the claim on a without prejudice  basis. This means Mr M isnt prevented  from 
taking legal action  against the other  driver if he wishes.  Mr M will need to seek separate 
legal advice about that. 
On 24 September  2018  after esure discussed  its decision with Mr M  he told it one of the 
stores had CCTV footage. So esure  agreed  to contact the store  to request it. It emailed the 
store on the same  day. But it didnt receive a reply.  
Ref: DRN48375622Mr M is unhappy  that esure wont cover a claim he made for repair to the drivers door lock. 
Mr M said he lost his keys a couple of weeks after the incident  and a locksmith advised  him 
that the lock could have  been damaged by the incident. However, esures  engineer looked at 
photos provided of the lock and said it showed  no signs  of damage as a result of an impact. 
esure has told Mr M if he can provide  evidence  to support his view,  it will reconsider. I think  
this is fair. 
I understand Mr M will be disappointed with my decision. But I think esure properly 
investigated the claim and reached  its decision reasonably and in line with the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4837562