K822xcomplaint
Miss G is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society  blocked her current  account and with 
the way it dealt with a bankers draft.
background 
Nationwide accepted in its final response that it incorrectly handled a bankers draft payment 
into Miss Gs account and that she encountered some service  issues.  It said it had placed 
restrictions on her account to secure  the £1,200 paid into her account by a bankers draft as 
it wasnt able to claim the money from the other bank. It had also returned the bankers draft 
to her by normal post not recorded  delivery and she didnt get it. It had also given her some 
misleading information about what was happening. It apologised and offered her £350 
compensation for the delays, distress  and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  In summary he said:
Nationwide has acknowledged  errors were made.  And it wasnt  fair for it to recover 
the money paid in from the bankers draft from Miss Gs account. It didnt process the 
bankers draft correctly and it didnt record details of the draft before sending it back 
to her by normal post.
Nationwide has asked  for a replacement draft or details of the other  bank account to 
ensure things get processed correctly but it isnt Miss Gs fault if she couldnt  get all 
the required information. It isnt fair for her to be penalised for Nationwides mistakes.
Miss G hasnt  suffered  a financial loss. But she wouldve been upset by Nationwides  
plan to recover the money from her account. We cant  punish  a business. 
Nationwides offer of £350 compensation is fair and reasonable.
Nationwide has confirmed  that the £350  compensation ahs been paid into Miss Gs current  
account in April 2019.And its also confirmed  it will not be recovering the funds from Miss Gs 
account.
Miss G remains unhappy and says the £350  compensation was for issues  up to April.  She 
thinks she should be paid a further £350 for everything since then including  Nationwides  
bullish behaviour. Shes asked for an ombudsman  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has recently confirmed it will not be recovering the money from Miss Gs 
account. Thats fair and reasonable.
So the only outstanding issue for me to consider  is the amount of compensation Nationwide 
should reasonably pay to Miss G.
All consumers spend some time and experience some additional  inconvenience  in dealing  
with a complaint  and putting things right. We wouldnt generally  recommend theyre  
compensated for this.
Ref: DRN45224202But in this case its clear  Miss G wasnt to blame  for what happened. Although  I dont agree 
that Nationwide was bullying as she suggests,  I do think  its caused her some  unnecessary  
distress and inconvenience which warrants a payment of some  compensation.
Nationwide paid her £350 compensation in April 2019 for service issues surrounding its 
dealings with the bankers  draft. And she would like a further £350 for whats happened  
since then. That would  take the total payment of compensation to £700 to reflect everything 
thats happened to date.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think a payment of 
£700 compensation in this case would be too much.
Although I understand Miss Gs frustration  at what has happened I think  a total payment of 
£350 compensation for all the distress  and inconvenience shes been  caused throughout is 
fair and reasonable. And although I recognise her strength of feeling  I dont think I can fairly 
or reasonably require  Nationwide to now pay her any more.
I therefore dont  see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4522420