K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mr T in 2003, in connection with a 
mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr T if he couldnt work because  of accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr Ts needs?
-Did Halifax give Mr T the information he needed  to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether 
Mr T is worse off as a result. That is, would he have  done  something different  such as not 
taking out the policy   if there hadnt been  any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr T says Halifax didnt  give him a proper  choice about buying  the PPI. Ive noted everything  
Mr T has said.
Halifax hasnt provided much paperwork from the time the policy  was sold. Thats not 
surprising as its many years since the sale, and its similar to other  cases  Ive seen.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr T and Halifax 
when the policy was sold. But for me to decide that Halifax didnt tell him the PPI was 
optional, Id have  to conclude that this was more likely than not.
This is difficult, given  the lack of paperwork we have.  Without anything  else to support what  
Mr T has told me, it seems to me that it couldve  been just as likely that Halifax made  Mr T 
aware the PPI was optional and he chose to take it out. 
Ref: DRN48080852From what  Ive seen and been  told, I havent  been able to safely  conclude that Halifax  didnt 
make Mr T aware that the policy was optional.
Halifax accepts that it advised Mr T to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable 
for him based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this because:
-Mr T was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions. 
-Mr T says he was entitled  to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work due to sickness  or 
accident. But the policy would have paid out in addition  to Mr Ts employer sick pay, and 
wouldve meant  he could use those benefits  to pay for other expenses if he couldnt  work. 
So overall I think Mr T would have had some  use for the policy  despite his existing 
arrangements.
-Mr T wasnt  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main benefits, such  as those 
affecting self-employed  people or people  with pre-existing  medical conditions. As he could 
have benefited  from the full extent  of the cover I think it unlikely  Mr T needed better  advice or 
information about the policys  exclusions and limitations.
-I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr T before he agreed to buy it. But he 
took out the cover knowing he would have to pay something  for it. The policy  was 
competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit.  So I think  it unlikely Mr T would  have made 
a different decision  if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should have 
been. But as Ive already  said, Mr T wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations  and the 
policy seems to have been  affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr T would have made a different 
decision if better information had been provided   overall,  I think he would still have taken out the 
policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4808085