K820x#14complaint
Ms D complained about how Insurance Factory Ltd dealt  with the renewal and cancellation 
of her motor  insurance policy.
background
Ms D had her car insurance with Insurance Factory.  When her policy was up for renewal, 
Insurance Factory  renewed it automatically  and took premiums from her bank  account  by 
direct debit. Ms D was unhappy because shed taken out insurance with a new insurer.  She 
complained about Insurance  Factory  charging her to cancel the renewed policy.  She also 
said that she had to pay her new insurer extra because Insurance  Factory  didnt give her the 
right information about her No Claims Discount (NCD).
The investigator didnt  recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She thought  that 
Insurance Factory  hadnt acted unreasonably in the circumstances. Ms D didnt agree and 
so the case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I see that after the investigator  gave her opinion, Ms D sent a list of points and the 
investigator has responded  to these. So I dont intend to deal with those one by one, but will 
deal with the matters Ms D complained  about under the following headings.  
auto renewal and cancellation 
Ms D said that Insurance Factory renewed her policy without her consent and that shed only 
found out about it a few months  later when she discovered that theyd taken three months 
premium payments from her account. She said she only wanted  the policy for a year and 
theyd ignored  her request not to renew  it.
As the investigator  explained to Ms D, with a complaint about auto renewal of an insurance 
policy, we look at whether  Insurance Factory  made  her sufficiently aware  of the auto renewal 
and gave her enough  time to cancel and insure elsewhere. 
I can see that when  she took out the policy in 2017  Insurance Factory sent her their Terms 
of Business. 
That says under the heading 'Automatic Renewal and Continuous  Payment':
To make  the process of renewal easier  we may automatically  renew a policy  and
take payment  by the same  payment  method as the previous year,  unless you
request otherwise. If you were paying  by monthly  instalments,  your finance
company will issue  a new agreement and will continue to collect direct debits from
your account; should the direct debit fail we may debit  payment from the card which
the original deposit was debited from to ensure continuity of cover.  
We will always write to you before we automatically renew any policy and give you the 
opportunity to contact  us to cancel the renewal.
Ref: DRN48461692I can see that Insurance Factory did on 12 July send Ms D a letter  proposing to auto renew 
her policy in August.  It also told her how to contact them if she didnt want  to renew then. So 
I think that this did give her reasonable time to cancel the auto renewal and look elsewhere  
before Insurance Factory renewed it. But Ms D said that she was on holiday and didnt get 
their letter. If this were so, Insurance Factory  werent  to know that. They said they didnt hear 
from her. So they renewed her policy and sent her the policy  documents. According to 
Insurance Factorys  records,  Ms D then tried to cancel  her policy  in late October. 
Ms D said that she had also called Insurance Factory to say that she didnt want  to auto 
renew. But although Insurance Factory looked for that call they couldnt find a record of it. 
And Ms D couldnt give them any more  detail to trace it as she said that shed called  from 
her then workplace which shed since left  and didnt  have the phone number. So I think its 
more likely than not that Ms D didnt try to prevent  the auto renewal.   
And, as Ive explained  above, Insurance Factory did have a continuous payment authority 
from Ms D from when  shed agreed to their Terms of Business in 2017. This doesnt need an 
up to date signature, but runs until stopped. Ms D said that the 2017 payment  authority 
wasnt her signature.  But, as she accepted  that she did take out the policy in 2017, and paid 
the premiums for it, I find it unlikely that it wasnt her signature. I find that shed agreed to 
Insurance Factorys  Terms of Business, and as Insurance Factory had followed those in 
renewing her policy, I dont think that they did anything wrong. 
Ms D contacted Insurance Factory  in late October 2018 saying that she already had 
insurance and they should cancel her policy. Insurance  Factory  agreed to this. But they 
wanted to charge her for the period theyd insured her for, and apply a cancellation  charge.  
We think its reasonable for a business  to charge  for the period they did insure someone,  
and to charge  for cancellation  if theyve  told their customer  about it in in advance and the 
charge is reasonable. I can see that Insurance  Factorys  Terms  of Business state that the 
insurer can charge  a cancellation  fee, and as that charge was about  £21, I dont  think that 
unreasonable or out of line with industry  standards. And Insurance Factory were  willing  to 
refund Ms D for any period when shed been  insured  with the new insurer as well as with 
them. But to do so they needed her to show when her new insurance policy started,  and she 
didnt send that. The investigator  obtained that from Ms D. And, as a result of that, Insurance 
Factory agreed to charge her only for the period, of about one month, when Insurance  
Factory insured her and she wasnt also insured  by the new insurer.  They agreed to take off 
about £40 for this from what Ms D owed them. Ms D said that she didnt need to be insured 
then as her car was off the road.  But again,  as Insurance Factory didnt know  this, and they 
did insure her, theyre entitled to payment for that period. And so I dont think  that theyve 
done anything  wrong there either.  
Proof of NCD 
Ms D also complained that she asked Insurance Factory for proof of her NCD with them  to 
give to her new insurer. But they didnt do that and so her new insurer increased  her 
premium by about £75. She felt that Insurance Factory should  reimburse  her for this. 
I can see from Insurance Factorys files that she asked Insurance Factory for proof of her 
NCD on 24 October 2018. And that they gave her a letter about  it on 26 October.  So I dont 
think this was a delay. Insurance Factorys letter explained that she was still insured with 
them and so her NCB  was still in use. Its not entirely clear  from the letter from the new 
insurer why they charged  Ms D another £75. 
Ref: DRN48461693It might have  been because they felt they couldnt use an NCD which Ms D was still using 
with another insurer.  Thats at an insurers discretion.  But I dont think that matters because, 
whatever the reason, that wasnt Insurance Factorys fault. What Insurance Factory  said 
about Ms Ds NCD was correct, and her new insurers attitude to her existing NCD wasnt  
their fault,  so its not fair to expect them to cover that charge. 
I can see that Ms D is upset as she feels that she had paid for insurance that she didnt need  
and she cant afford  to do that. But although  I appreciate that, I dont think  that was 
Insurance Factorys  fault or that theyve been  unreasonable in auto renewing  her policy,  or in 
requiring her to pay for its cancellation or for the period  when they were insuring her and she 
wasnt being insured by her new insurer. I can see shes also worried that Insurance Factory  
used a debt collector  and that this could  affect  her credit score. But Insurance  Factory were 
entitled to recover  that debt from her and I dont think theyve been   unreasonable in their 
methods, particularly as theyve stopped  any recovery action until this service investigated 
the matter and decided.
So overall I think that Insurance Factory have  not acted unfairly, and I dont require them to 
do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4846169