K820x#14complaint
Ms B complained because HSBC UK Bank  Plc charged her an Early Repayment Charge 
(ERC) when she paid off her mortgage. 
background
In November 2008, Ms B took out a 25 year HSBC mortgage for £295,000. In April 2015, 
Ms B changed the product on her mortgage,  moving  to a rate which  was fixed  until 30 June 
2017. This change  was on a non-advised basis. 
The offer for the product set out that if Ms B paid off the mortgage before the end of the fixed  
rate period,  shed have to pay an ERC of 1% of the amount she repaid. It also said:
If you move  home and buy another home during the fixed rate period we may agree to lend 
you up to the same  amount as the balance of your existing  loan at the same fixed rate for 
the remainder of your fixed rate period subject to the following conditions:    
-were satisfied with your financial situation  and credit history;
-were satisfied that the property offered as security is acceptable to us;
-were satisfied that the proposed  new lending  meets out standard lending policy and 
assessment criteria  at the relevant time;
-the new loan is used to buy your new home with no change  in the parties to the 
mortgage; and 
-the existing  mortgage is repaid in full.
In January 2016, Ms B rang HSBC to discuss downsizing to a cheaper property. She wanted 
her new mortgage to be for £100,000,  which was lower  than her existing balance. HSBC 
took details and went through a Decision in Principle with Ms B. Unfortunately it was 
declined, on the basis of Ms Bs credit history. Ms B was confident  there wasnt anything 
wrong. The adviser suggested looking  at her credit history, and said if there  was anything 
inaccurate which Ms B was able to get corrected, she was welcome to ring back. 
Ms B applied online on 5 April, 28 July, 7 and 17 August  2016,  but these were  declined. She 
contacted HSBC again on 20 September.  This application too was declined, but HSBC said 
it could forward her request to its mortgage  advisor with a view to considering the application 
on grounds of exceptional  circumstances. A phone appointment was made  for 28 
September.
On 27 September,  HSBC  rang Ms B to check  she was still happy with the next days  
appointment. Ms B said I was going to ring you about that and said that the house shed 
hoped to buy had fallen through, and she was looking at two or three properties a day, in 
particular ones with no chain. At the end of the call, HSBC said When  youve found a new 
property and have  had an offer accepted verbally, let us know  and well rebook. Ms B 
replied Fantastic, thank you and the call ended.
On 25 October, Ms Bs solicitor asked HSBC for a redemption quote  for her existing 
mortgage. HSBC  provided this the next day. This clearly set out the ERC of £1,439.29. On 2 
November 2016,  HSBC received the funds  to pay off the mortgage. 
In September  2018, Ms B complained to HSBC. She said she shouldnt  have  been  charged 
an ERC, because shed wanted  to transfer  (port) her existing rate but HSBC had declined  
her application.
Ref: DRN47101072HSBC didnt uphold  Ms Bs complaint.  It set out the events and said that Ms B hadnt got 
back in touch after the 27 September 2016  phone  call. It pointed out that the ERC was 
clearly explained  in the redemption statement. HSBC did, however, pay Ms B £75 because 
the first adviser with whom shed raised  her complaint, on 4 September  2018,  hadnt 
actioned it, and Ms B had had to ring again on 11 September.
Ms B wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  uphold Ms Bs complaint. He didnt agree  that Ms B had been forced 
to remortgage elsewhere. And he said shed incurred the ERC in line with the mortgage  
terms and conditions.
Ms B didnt agree. She said there  had been many phone calls before the 27 September 
2016 call, when HSBC had point  blank refused to port the mortgage.  She explained that her 
buyers, for the property on which she had the HSBC mortgage, had said they wanted  to 
move on 1 November 2016.  So shed had to get an independent financial adviser to find her 
a mortgage elsewhere.  She said that by the time shed found a new property to buy, it would 
have been too late to discuss  further with HSBC. She said the ERC was unfair because 
shed asked to port the mortgage  on many occasions before 27 September  2016. She said 
HSBC should  send us the call recordings before 27 September 2016.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ms B has asked me to listen to other call recordings, as well as the 27 September  2016 call. 
I recognise that Ms B made multiple  applications to HSBC, as Ive set out above. Most of 
these, however, were  online, so there are no call recordings. I have listened to the available 
call recordings, including  the long application  she made by phone in January 2016, and the 
important 27 September  2016 call. 
I have looked  first at Ms Bs mortgage  offer, and its clear that an ERC was payable  on her 
mortgage if she paid it off before 30 June 2017.  So Ms B was bound to pay this, if she didnt 
port her mortgage.
I recognise that Ms B made multiple  mortgage  applications which failed the banks  lending  
criteria. The position  in late September 2016 was that HSBC was willing  to consider 
exceptional circumstances,  with a view to allowing Ms B to port. Ms B and the bank had set 
up a phone appointment to discuss this on 28 September. But the 27 September  call 
recording, which Ive set out above,  is quite clear.  Ms B hadnt found a property,  and HSBC  
said she should get back in touch when  shed found a new property and had an offer 
accepted. Ms Bs response of Fantastic, thank you didnt indicate that she was unhappy 
with this. And she never got back in touch  with HSBC before she paid off her mortgage.
Ms B has argued that because HSBC  had refused to port her mortgage,  and her buyers 
wanted to complete on 1 November 2016, she was desperate and had to get a financial  
adviser to find her a mortgage elsewhere. I recognise that selling and buying property can be 
very stressful, with difficult deadlines.  But the fact remains  that in the last call on record,  27 
September, Ms B didnt  say anything about  urgently needing to complete her sale by 1 
Ref: DRN47101073November. And she turned down the booked  phone appointment for the next day, on the 
grounds she wasnt ready. 
HSBC had offered  Ms B an appointment to discuss possible exceptional circumstances  
which might  override the affordability  issues which  had caused the earlier  computer 
rejections. I consider that HSBC might  well have given  Ms B agreement on 28 September.  I 
dont find that it acted unfairly  towards  Ms B. It was Ms Bs choice not to get back in touch 
with HSBC, and to go elsewhere for a mortgage.  This meant  that under her mortgage terms 
and conditions, the ERC was correctly payable. 
Finally, I find that HSBCs  payment of £75 compensation, for its 4 September  2018 advisers 
failure to log Ms Bs complaint, was fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4710107