K820x#14complaint
Mr E says MBNA Limited (MBNA) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mr E took out in May 2002.  The credit card 
and PPI policy ended in or before  April 2007.
One of our adjudicators did not uphold  Mr Es complaint. Mr E disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Es case.
I can see that MBNA conducted  this sale through the post, so because of this I am satisfied 
MBNA didnt  give advice. So I dont need to consider whether the policy was suitable.  I do 
need to look at whether it provided clear  enough information though so that Mr E could make 
an informed decision on the policy.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint. This is because:
After considering  information about  Mr Es circumstances  at the time of sale,  I am 
persuaded he was eligible for the MPPI policy.
I think MBNA made  Mr E aware that the PPI was optional  and he chose to take it. I say 
this because I can see on the application form Mr E completed and signed, that he has 
ticked a box to agree to have  PPI. So it seems likely to me, after seeing this, that Mr E 
chose to have PPI with his credit card. 
The information MBNA gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should have been. 
But Mr E chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of cover.  
He was not affected by any of the exclusions  or limitations. 
I dont  think MBNA properly explained  the cost. I can see that some  information is 
provided on the application form, but it didnt explain that the premium  would be added  to 
Mr Es credit card balance and could  attract interest. It also failed to explain the level of 
benefit (3% of the statement balance) or the fact that Mr E has to continue paying the 
premium if he is receiving this benefit.  But I think Mr E would have bought the policy 
anyway if better information had been provided.
I say this because  although Mr E said he received sick pay, I dont  think  Mr E had 
enough provisions  at the time of sale to meet his repayments in the event he had to stop 
working unexpectedly. And the policy provided Mr E with a safety  net, even at such  a 
modest level of benefit, which in his circumstances at the time of sale,  he might have 
considered useful.
Ref: DRN43138402Mr E initially said he has between 8 and 16 weeks  sick pay but more recently said he 
had 16 weeks full sick pay. Our service asked for more  information about  this but Mr E 
has been unable  to provide any more as he said the company he worked for is no longer 
trading. I have taken  this into consideration when considering  what  I think  Mr E would 
have been able to rely on when needed. And when I consider he more likely  would have 
relied upon between 8 and 16 weeks sick pay, I still think  he would have found the 
benefits provided by the policy of use, at least enough that clearer  information wouldnt 
have put him off.
This means  I havent  found anything to uphold this complaint, as Mr E has not lost out as a 
result of the problems with the sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint  against  MBNA Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4313840