K820x#14complaint
Miss K and Mr L complain  that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA) accepted another 
drivers claim  on their motor insurance  policy but didnt tell them of this. They think the claim 
may be fraudulent.
background
Mr L is a named driver  on Miss Ks policy. Mr L was driving Miss Ks car when he hit another 
drivers car in the rear. He said there  was no visible damage.  But a week later RSA received  
a claim from the other drivers solicitor. Mr L admitted liability and so RSA settled the claim 
for repairs and Miss Ks No Claims Discount (NCD) was affected. RSA agreed  that it didnt 
tell Miss K that it had then settled  the claim and it paid her £50 compensation for this.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He thought RSA was 
entitled to settle  the claim under the policy terms and conditions.  He thought Miss Ks NCD 
would be affected  as a result. He thought that its offer of £50 compensation for not telling her 
earlier that it had settled the claim  was fair and reasonable.
Miss K replied  that her car had no damage  at all and she provided a video to show this. She 
thought RSA had settled  a fraudulent claim.  Miss K asked for her complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have no doubts  about Miss Ks and Mr Ls integrity  and honesty.  I can see that Miss K and 
Mr L are adamant  that RSA was wrong in settling  the other drivers claim. They said that 
there was no visible  damage  to either  car following the incident  and the other driver had said 
she was fine.
I can see that Mr L told RSA that he ran into the back of the other car, albeit at low speed.  
Our role in complaints of this nature  is simply to investigate  how the insurer made the 
decision to settle  the claim. Did it act fairly  and reasonably and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy?
RSA is entitled  under the terms and conditions of its policy with Miss K to take over, defend,  
or settle  a claim as it sees  fit. Miss K has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of a claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. Insurers  are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better  to 
compromise.
That said,  we expect  an insurer  to reasonably  investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
before deciding how to settle it.
I can see that RSA considered Mr Ls version  of events and he had admitted that he ran into 
the other drivers rear. Miss Ks car had a telematics (black box) device fitted  that recorded 
the speed at impact as 14 mph. 
Ref: DRN47061442RSA considered the engineers report provided by the other driver. It thought the damage 
caused was consistent with the event and the repair cost was reasonable. It explained that 
following such an accident,  the bumper could spring  back, hiding damage  beneath  it. From 
what I can see, RSA is still negotiating  the other drivers claim for personal injuries. 
Miss K said that her car had no visible damage and she provided  a video which  she said 
showed this. She offered her car up for inspection by our service, but that isnt our role. And 
that doesnt mean that there was no damage caused  by the incident to the other drivers car. 
RSA had relied on an expert engineers  report to establish this. And so I think that was fair 
and reasonable.  Miss K said the photos  on the report were blurry,  but I dont  think this is a 
reason to dismiss the report. I havent seen any evidence that the claim was fraudulent.  
I think RSA reasonably investigated  the claim and considered  the evidence  before making  its 
decision. It decided  that it would be unable  to defend the claim and so decided  to settle it. I 
think its entitled to decide this by the policy terms and conditions.  So I cant  say that RSA 
has acted incorrectly.
As a result of the fault claim  recorded against her, Miss Ks NCD was affected. I think this is 
standard industry practice. And, as RSA established that Mr L was liable and it had to pay 
for repair costs that it cant  recover, I think it correctly recorded a fault claim. So I cant  say 
that RSA should change  this. 
I can see that RSA agreed  that it should  have  told Miss K sooner that it had settled the 
claim. RSA had told Mr L it would settle  the other drivers claim when they discussed the 
incident. Miss K said shed thought  it had changed its mind. I can understand that finding  this 
out at renewal must have come as a shock to Miss K. RSA offered her £50 compensation for 
this. I think thats fair and reasonable  as its what Id award in similar circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4706144