K821x#15complaint
Mr M says TenetConnect Limited didnt provide the advice services it agreed  to, and which  
he paid for. He says the main result  of this was that too much  of his pension  fund was left in 
cash not earning a return.
background
Mr M was a client  of Ashwood  Law Wealth Management Ltd (ALWM).  It was an appointed 
representative (AR) of TenetConnect between November 2010  and 1 August 2016. The 
company became an AR of Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd (Intrinsic) from 2 August 2016.
As the principal firms, TenetConnect and Intrinsic were responsible for any acts or omissions  
of ALWM, and so for simplicity Ill refer to them in this decision.
Mr Ms adviser had been dealing with his pension since  2007.  In November 2014 they met to 
discuss his arrangements. At the time he had a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with 
Standard Life valued at about £405k,  of which around £134k  was held in cash. He also had 
a personal pension with the same provider worth  around £57k.
Mr M and his wife were already retired at the time of the advice. He wanted to understand 
the best way to meet a shortfall between  his regular income and his planned expenditure. 
TenetConnect advised him to switch  his personal pension to his SIPP  where he could 
access those benefits flexibly. Mr M accepted its recommendation. 
At the same time Mr M signed-up to ongoing  advisory services  from TenetConnect. This 
included periodic reviews  of his SIPP investments and, as appropriate, recommendations for 
any adjustments to meet  his ongoing objectives.  It was also to include at least one meeting a 
year to discuss matters. The annual fee equated to 0.25%  of the value  of his fund.
In September  2017 Mr M raised a complaint with TenetConnect. He said that he hadnt 
received the services hed paid for. And he was concerned about  the lack of management of 
his pension fund,  for example on more than one occasion he says hed raised  the issue  of 
an excess of his funds  being held in cash and so not working  for him. He says hes suffered 
a financial loss as a result.
TenetConnect said Mr M and its adviser  were in regular contact in March,  June and 
November 2015.  It said during these exchanges  hed been  provided with valuations  and the 
allocation of funds  within his pension had been discussed. It said it had also sent him an 
automated letter in January 2016 inviting him for a financial review.
TenetConnect conceded that there was no further contact with Mr M after January 2016. So, 
it offered to refund the fees hed paid between  February 2016 and 1 August 2016,  at which 
point his advisers firm became an AR of Intrinsic.
However, TenetConnect said that the cash position  in Mr Ms SIPP was consistent with his 
requirements. It said the income he wanted to drawdown had increased  by 2015 and that 
once hed taken  this money  over the following three years, hed be roughly at the level of 
cash holding  he wanted.
Ref: DRN49068232The adjudicator upheld Mr Ms case. TenetConnect  disagreed with his view. As well as 
challenging his findings, it said the basis on which redress had been proposed wasnt  right. 
So, Mr Ms complaint has been passed to me for review. I issued my provisional decision in 
October. Ive received responses from both parties and where matters raised are material, Ill 
address these in this final decision.
My consideration of Mr Ms case will cover  the period from the event complained  about  until 
TenetConnects AR transferred  to a different network of advisers with effect from 2 August 
2016. A separate complaint has been set up against Intrinsic to consider matters it wouldve 
been responsible from that point onwards.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain 
why.
My starting point is the financial report TenetConnect  produced  for Mr M in November 2014. 
It summarised his circumstances. He was married with no financial dependents. He and his 
wife had been retired for several years. And both were in good health. Mr M was 71 and in 
receipt of his state pension. His wifes state  pension wouldnt become payable for another  
seven years.
Mr M and his wife owned their home  and had no outstanding mortgage or loans. They had a 
regular income of around £13k a year and their needs had typically  exceeded  this by around 
£10k. Mr M had funded  this income shortfall  by taking phased tax-free cash (TFC) from his 
SIPP and by using  funds from his savings.
At the time of the advice complained about, Mr and Mrs M anticipated that for at least  the 
following year theyd  have  an ongoing  need  for a similar level of additional funds to 
supplement their regular  income. They were planning to travel for 6 months of the year and 
this was something they thought they might do regularly in the future.
Mr M sought advice from TenetConnect about how best to meet his income requirements. 
The funds in his SIPP of £405k  were  largely  crystallised, but he could still access  TFC from 
his personal pension, which at the time was valued  at £57k. It advised him to switch these 
funds to his SIPP where  he could access the benefits flexibly. Mr M agreed to the 
recommendation.
Another of Mr Ms recorded  objectives  was to reduce  his cash  holdings  because he thought  
his pension pot was holding excess cash.  TenetConnects report records that after taking 
benefits from his plan, he wanted  to leave around 20% of funds in cash.
The purpose of pension drawdown is to provide an income  for the plan holder. So, some 
cash is needed to provide  for this in the near-term, as well as for fees. Generally, its 
reasonable to allow  for perhaps  a couple of years  of projected withdrawals. This ensures 
liquidity in the SIPP so that market volatility can be managed, for example by avoiding the 
need to sell investments  in adverse  conditions.
Ref: DRN49068233The remaining  pension funds should be invested accepting some  risk to grow and provide 
for later income. Afterall, someone in good health of Mr Ms age had a reasonable 
expectation of living into his mid-eighties, and beyond. And his wife, who couldve benefited 
from any residual funds  on his passing  was 13 years  his junior. So, getting  the balance  right 
between cash and investment wasnt of minor consequence.
I cant see that TenetConnect  advised Mr M proactively  on these matters. And unfortunately, 
both parties had a different understanding of what his requirements on cash  were. 
In its final response to Mr Ms complaint, TenetConnect suggested it took into account his 
maximum potential annual income  drawdown of £43k for three years when considering his 
cash holding. And in its last response  to this Service it told us the amount  of cash  in Mr Ms 
pension allowed for his 20% target  plus an allowance for his intended withdrawals.
These are curious arguments for TenetConnect to make because we know  from the financial 
report it delivered for Mr M in November 2014, at that point his drawdown requirement  was 
recorded as around  £10k  a year. Given that the proposed investment strategy indicated over 
£140,000 would be left in cash  that was equivalent to over a decade  of income provision.
Further, I find TenetConnects internal review of its financial report  telling. Its compliance 
function wanted to understand more  about  what was happening  with Mr Ms cash holding. It 
asked the adviser:
You also mention the client  wishes to reduce the cash  element to 20%, does this form part 
of your investment  recommendation and what is the reasoning  for this?  Alternatively, if it is 
client driven please confirm what effect this will have  on the portfolio
The adviser responded as follows (bolding  is my emphasis):
The client and I discussed the investment proposition  [relating  to the transfer  of funds from 
his personal pension] and given the fact that there  is currently over 30% in cash in the 
receiving scheme already  - it was considered inappropriate to leave the cash at this 
level going  forward. However, given that the client is likely to take additional income (by 
way of drawdown in the near future,  then the client wished to maintain at least 20% cash 
to fund several years worth of potential income)
I think this explanation is consistent  with Mr Ms version of events  that he wanted to target 
a 20% cash holding, and that this wasnt in addition to his projected income requirements 
over the coming  years.
Its arguable that a 20% target for cash was itself inefficient given what was known  at that 
time about Mr Ms anticipated  drawdown over the coming period. While this target appears 
to have been his firm view, Id have  expected  TenetConnect to have been probing, 
challenging and establishing why this was indeed  suitable for him. A matter its compliance  
team was clearly trying to elicit.
Ive given TenetConnect the benefit of some doubt here. I note developments a year later 
show Mr Ms income requirement increased significantly - it seems the need for short-term  
flexibility mayve been  in his mind.  So perhaps the 20% cash target mayve been 
reasonable. Its a shame we dont have  more information though.
Ref: DRN49068234Mr M signed-up to ongoing advisory services  from TenetConnect in November  2014.  This 
included periodic reviews  of his SIPP investments and, as appropriate, recommendations for 
any adjustments to meet  his ongoing objectives.  It also included at least  one meeting a year 
to discuss his situation. The annual fee equated to 0.25%  of the value  of his fund.
I note that when Mr M received his advice in November  2014 his Standard Life SIPP was 
paying interest on his cash  account  of 0.3% per annum. But his provider informed him 
shortly afterwards that from 1 January 2015  hed receive no interest.
In April 2015 following  receipt of information from Standard Life about  the value of his SIPP  
Mr M says he was amazed to find that rather than a reduced level of cash, his holding  had 
increased to over £200k, or more  than 42% of his funds. This had happened because  a 
Trustee Investment  Plan (TIP) had matured returning a £67k  into his SIPP cash account.
Mr M says he initiated contact with TenetConnect to get the cash holding  matter addressed. 
The email  exchanges  Ive seen are not particularly detailed, other than confirming this was a 
matter, amongst others,  being  discussed  between the parties.
The adviser made a file note following a discussion with Mr M on 7 May 2015. It recorded 
that he would be increasing his drawdown  of income  to fully utilise his basic  rate income tax 
allowance. In addition  to taking £29k a year,  its recorded that he still wanted to maintain 
20% cash in his pension (excluding  future  withdrawals) and that it was therefore agreed to 
leave cash at 42% of his SIPP value.
Mr M strongly refutes  this record  of events. He said his notes from the discussion were that 
£100k would  be considered for investment with £99k remaining in cash.
Ive no reason to doubt that TenetConnects contemporaneous note of events faithfully 
records what its adviser had understood from the discussions. Similarly, I think  what Mr M 
has told me is a genuine  record of what  he thought had been agreed. 
As weve seen from recollections of what happened in 2014,  the communications  between 
parties wasnt as effective as it shouldve been  to ensure a common  understanding. I think  
TenetConnect bears primary  responsibility for this. Ill explain why.
Its of note that one of the terms from Mr Ms client agreement that he shared with us said 
the following:
ACCOUNTING TO YOU - We will confirm to you in writing the basis  or our reason for 
recommending the transaction executed on your behalf.
So, as Ive concluded on the balance  of probabilities what was agreed in November 2014 i.e. 
to target a 20% cash  holding in Mr Ms SIPP, I wouldve  expected some documentation  
available from TenetConnect recording why Mr M ended  up with a different approach, as it is 
effectively suggesting.  What were his objectives and what  was its advice about whether this 
was an appropriate  course of action?
Further, I think deciding not to reinvest  the £67k cash  injected  into Mr Ms SIPP  account from 
the matured TIP warranted a more comprehensive  audit trail. As did the change in interest  
rate he was receiving  on his cash holding. Ive seen little commentary  about  these matters.
Ref: DRN49068235TenetConnect doesnt seem to have been providing  an ongoing servicing  of his pension 
funds, as it was contracted to do. The maturing of one of his investments presumably didnt 
come as a surprise. Why did the funds  have to sit in cash until Mr Ms next annual review as 
it suggests wouldve  been appropriate? And why wasnt the adviser talking to Mr M about  the 
position with interest  on his cash  holding?
In responding  to my provisional decision, TenetConnect said Mr M wasnt  paying  for ad hoc 
advice. It said his fee paid for a yearly review.  It thought it was unfair  to say that advice 
shouldve been  given to Mr M in mid-2015. It said this wouldnt have happened unless 
requested by the client and a further fee paid.
I understand the point TenetConnect makes here. But I think  it chooses a narrow 
interpretation of the service  it held out to Mr M for the significant ongoing advice fee he was 
paying. Certainly, the information given to him suggested he could expect something  more 
extensive and flexible than one annual  review.
As TenetConnect acknowledged, Mr M and his adviser were in regular  contact in 2015, for 
example it noted  email  exchanges in March,  June and November that year.  So, its difficult  to 
understand why the significant  developments affecting his SIPP  werent gripped. 
Even if it had required Mr M to pay an additional fee to provide advice and make  necessary 
arrangements, it shouldve made that clear. It hasnt done enough in this case  to show me it 
was fulfilling its duty to act in its clients best interests using due care and skill.
Its not clear why Mr M needed to keep £200k in cash in 2015,  when even  being  cautious 
about liquidity  considerations, his total income requirements for the next three years 
wouldve been around £100k. As this wasnt in his best interests, Id have expected 
TenetConnect to have  been advising him accordingly. It needed to be proactive, particularly 
in light of what Ive concluded about Mr Ms settled requirements in this area.
As we know,  contact between Mr M and TenetConnect halted sometime towards the end of 
2015  around  the time his annual review wouldve been due. TenetConnect has provided 
us with a template of a review letter it says wouldve been sent to him in January 2016. Mr M 
says he never received  a letter.
The importance of regular reviews was set out in the financial report TenetConnect produced  
for Mr M. The following  extracts are typical:
The drawdown annual reviews deemed  necessary to ensure the continued suitability of a 
client remaining in drawdown, to monitor the performance of the fund and its ability  to 
achieve the critical yield and to ensure that changes in the clients situation are identified  and 
accommodated. The decline  of an annual review could have a detrimental impact  on a 
clients pension fund,  it is important to ensure a client understands the implications.
Given the investment nature  of drawdowns, it is important that the plan is regularly 
monitored to ensure  its continued ability to provide benefits in the format required by a client. 
Unlike the security of income  offered via a conventional annuity there is the risk of the fund 
depleting and not being able to meet a clients needs in retirement. For this reason annual  
monitoring is viewed as an integral part of the advice process.
TenetConnect conceded it had no further contact with Mr M beyond January 2016. And in 
responding to my provisional decision it said:
Ref: DRN49068236The firm could not force  the client to have  a review and he was sent a letter asking him to 
arrange one. Again, the client disputes this but it is a matter  of fact that this letter was written  
and the address was correct. I would question  how he didnt receive  it. In my opinion the 
advisor fulfilled his part of the agreement by offering the review  the client  had paid for. I dont 
think he can be blamed  for the client not responding.
I understand the point TenetConnect is making  here. The problem it has is that it continued  
to take payment for its ongoing services until its AR transferred networks in August 2016.  I 
think it needed to do more to try and contact Mr M by alternative methods  in these 
circumstances. 
Had the review happened  I think its more likely than not TenetConnect wouldve properly  
understood Mr Ms requirements  and action to reduce his exposure to cash wouldve been  
taken, albeit still somewhat later than it shouldve been.
Turning to Mr Ms wider approach to taking his pension benefits. If an investor is averse to 
risk then buying an annuity with the capital available, which would guarantee an income at a 
given level into the future,  is a good option.  But from the documents  Ive seen  Mr M didnt 
want to pursue that route. He was happy  with the flexibility a drawdown  pension provided 
and he was willing to accept some investment risk.
I can see TenetConnect and Mr M discussed  his risk appetite  and agreed  that he was a 
moderately cautious investor. The definition  of someone with this outlook was as follows:
In general  moderately  cautious investors  are uncomfortable taking risk with their 
investments, but would be willing  to do so to a limited extent. They realise that risky 
investments are likely  to be better for longer-term  returns. Moderately cautious investors 
typically prefer certain outcomes to gambles.  They can take a relatively long time to make up 
their mind  on financial matters and may suffer from regret when decisions turn out badly....
Given the size of Mr Ms pension pot, the potential  income that could be generated by it, his 
other assets,  his anticipated income  requirements  at that time and his risk outlook, Mr Ms 
capacity for loss was assessed as moderate.  This seems a reasonable assessment in the 
circumstances.
Mr M also raised the matter of the performance of some of the funds he held. Ive thought  
about this carefully.  But given  his portfolio of investments appears to have been a 
reasonable match for his risk appetite, Im not proposing any adjustments in that area.  Id 
simply be substituting an equivalent  generic benchmark of funds that equated to his risk 
appetite for what he had, with the possibility  he may be a bit better  or worse off.
putting things right
Mr Ms main  concern  was about the excess cash  holding  in his SIPP, which  TenetConnect 
failed to get to grips  with. Im upholding this aspect of his complaint. 
Both parties  provided  comments about  the redress Id proposed in my provisional decision.
TenetConnect didnt  think  that additional cash holdings that were generated in 2015,  for 
example the monies which came back to Mr Ms SIPP account  when his Prudential TIP 
matured, should  be included in the loss calculation from December 2014. It thought it was 
more appropriate  for the clock to start here when the annual  review was due, a year later.
Ref: DRN49068237As Ive set out already,  TenetConnect  hasnt done enough to satisfy me it acted  with due 
care and skill on this matter and in Mr Ms interests. It follows  that Im not persuaded by its 
argument here. My redress  method requires Mr Ms cash position to be taken into account 
over time. So, given the example of his TIP injection, that would form part of the sum for his 
overall cash position when it was passed into his account.
Mr M thought that he should still receive  the refund of fees payable  for the period he was 
with TenetConnect.  I explained to him that my approach on redress has been  to put him 
back into the position he wouldve been in now,  as far as is reasonably  possible,  had 
TenetConnect got everything right.
If Id required the repayment of his fees, rather than putting  him in the position he wouldve 
been in had TenetConnect done what I think  it shouldve, hed effectively be getting  a free 
service for the management of his substantial  fund, and that wouldnt be reasonable given 
the compensation Ive already proposed.
I now require TenetConnect Limited to put matters right in the following way:
-Assuming a target for cash  holding in Mr Ms SIPP  of 20%,  it should  work out 
between 14 December 2014 (allowing a month from the initial  advice) until 1 August 
2016 (when its AR moved to a different principal firm),  what excess  cash he held.
-For that excess cash, it should assume this wouldve  benefitted from the same 
average return enjoyed by Mr Ms residual portfolio over the same period.
-To this it should add 8% simple interest from 2 August  2016  until it settles.
-It should pay the resulting sum into Mr Ms current pension  plan. This should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. It shouldnt pay the compensation 
into his pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
-If it is unable to pay the compensation into Mr M's pension  plan,  TenetConnect 
should pay the amount due direct to him. Had it been possible to pay into his plan, it 
wouldve provided a taxable income.  Therefore, the compensation  should  be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income  tax that would  otherwise have been paid. This 
should be calculated  using Mr M's actual or expected  marginal rate of tax.
-Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If TenetConnect considers that its 
required by HM Revenue  & Customs  (HMRC) to deduct income tax, it should  tell Mr 
M how much  has been taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
-TenetConnect should provide the details of the redress  calculation to Mr M in a clear, 
simple format.
In addition, TenetConnect should pay Mr M £100 for the distress and inconvenience  caused 
by the things it got wrong.
my decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. So, I require 
TenetConnect Limited to put things  right as Ive indicated above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 January 2021.
Ref: DRN49068238Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4906823