K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says she tried twice to update a direct debit payment through  the Vanquis Bank 
Limited online service but it failed  to allow her to do so. Shed now like to be compensated 
adequately for her time and trouble  in dealing with this.
background
Mrs C says she wanted to amend the details for payment of her credit card. She went online 
with her Vanquis account on 2 November 2018 to make the changes but when she logged  
back in on 14 November,  she found  the details  had gone back  to what  they were  before. She 
updated them again but when she logged out and back in, the changes  hadnt been saved. 
She then called Vanquis and the changes  were done over the phone. Vanquis said there  
was a problem  with its systems and offered Mrs C £40 for her inconvenience plus £5 for the 
cost of her calls. Mrs C feels this isnt enough and that £100 would be more  appropriate.
Vanquis said initially it thought it was a systems  error but on checking  it seemed Mrs C may 
not have been entering  the correct  information  about the direct  debit payment. However  it 
felt the process  may not have been as clear as it could have been so it felt it was still fair to 
compensate Mrs C for her trouble.  But thered been  no financial impact  from what had 
happened so it felt the compensation  already  paid was reasonable.
Our investigator felt Vanquis had dealt with the complaint fairly and that the compensation  
paid was reasonable so she wouldnt be asking it to do anything  more. Mrs C disagreed  and 
asked for the complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  this isnt the decision Mrs C was 
hoping for but having done so I wont be asking Vanquis to do anything  more as Ill now 
explain.
Its not clear exactly why Mrs C couldnt update her payment details when she logged  in on 2 
and 14 November. It seems Vanquis initially thought it was a systems error but since  then 
its said Mrs C may have  been putting  in the wrong  information. I can be certain what 
caused the problem but as Vanquis accepts this may have been due to the information 
available online,  I think its still fair for it to compensate Mrs C for the inconvenience caused  
by what happened.
Theres no previse way of calculating such awards but in deciding  whats reasonable Ive 
taken into account  how long this problem lasted  and the impact it had on Mrs C. Ive seen  
Mrs C had to log into her account twice over two weeks and then make a call to Vanquis to 
get the details updated.  I can understand how frustrating this was but once Mrs C did let 
Vanquis know, the problem was resolved straight  away. And I cant  see that its had any 
financial impact on Mrs C as the direct debit was updated in good  time before the payment 
was required.
In the circumstances I consider that the compensation  already paid by Vanquis is sufficient 
for the trouble and upset  Mrs Cs had in this case and, for that reason, I wont be asking it to 
do anything more.
Ref: DRN49140122my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4914012