K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz)  handled  their escape of water  claim 
poorly. They want it to pay them more compensation.
 
background 
In February 2017  Mr and Mrs M made a claim on their Allianz household insurance policy.  
They had an escape of water in their home.  This caused damage that required drying  out 
and repair. They say Allianz did poor work, causing  additional  damage. They were unhappy 
with the progress of the claim and communication. After Mr and Mrs M complained  Allianz 
issue a final response  in October  2017. It apologised for the poor work.  It said it would put it 
right and offered  £300 compensation. Mr and Mrs M didnt think this was enough,  so they 
came to this service.
Allianz agreed to our investigators proposal that it pay Mr and Mrs M a further  £300  
compensation and reimburse some electricity costs. Mr and Mrs M said that wasnt enough 
compensation. They also made  a new complaint to Allianz. They  said its poor claim 
handling had inflated the cost of the claim,  causing  them to have  to find a different insurer  
and pay more for cover. And they felt Allianzs mistakes had cost them  employment income. 
Allianz issued another final response in August  2018.  It accepted the claim cost had been 
recorded unfairly. It said it was possible that had caused them  to have to find a different 
insurer. It paid them an extra £1,000 compensation to recognise how the claim had been  
handled. Mr and Mrs M didnt think the total compensation  offered was enough.   
Our adjudicator looked at the whole complaint again. He didnt agree that Allianz had caused 
Mr and Mrs M to pay extra for their new insurance.  He agreed that Allianz had caused them  
unnecessary trouble  and upset. But he felt £1,600 compensation  (including  the £300  extra  
hed said it should  pay) was enough to recognise this. Mr and Mrs M didnt agree, so the 
complaint has come  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
It seems  repairs have  been completed. So I havent considered any outstanding  work. Ive 
focused on how the claim was handled. Ive considered the issues  dealt with by both of 
Allianzs final responses.  
Allianz accepts it recorded the cost of the claim unfairly. It says its now amended  the record  
on the insurance industry database. So that mistake shouldnt affect Mr and Mrs M in future. 
Allianz said its possible that error did stop them being invited for renewal. But Ive seen 
underwriting information  that persuades me they wouldnt have been offered a renewal  even 
if the claim had been recorded fairly.  
I wont mention here everything that went  wrong  with the claim and every  impact on Mr and 
Mrs M  but Ive considered what they and Allianz  have said about what happened. Having 
done so, I think  £1,600  is a reasonable amount to recognise the unnecessary  trouble and 
upset Allianz caused. So Im not making  it pay any more than that.  
Ref: DRN46569962Mr and Mrs M experienced poor workmanship and additional damage.  Communication  from 
Allianz was poor at times.  The claim took longer than it should have, leaving their home in a 
poor state longer than necessary. This caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience. It 
resulted in them missing  work. They spent more time and energy  dealing  with the claim than 
necessary.
Mr and Mrs M say they lost custom and income  because of Allianz. Mr Ms outlined  about 30 
hours he spent dealing with Allianz.  He feels he should be reimbursed for this time at his 
professional hourly  rate. But I dont think that would be reasonable. Some of that contact  and 
inconvenience would probably have been  necessary had the claim gone  smoothly.  Some of 
it was an unnecessary interruption to his work.  But I think its likely he could  have found  
alternative time to make up for that. And I havent  seen enough to make  me think  he lost 
clients or custom as a result of Allianzs  mistakes.
Its not clear how much  compensation has been  paid to Mr and Mrs M so far. So Allianz will 
need to pay them whatever is required to bring the total compensation payments up to 
£1,600.    
Mr and Mrs M havent been reimbursed for extra electricity costs  for drying their home. Its 
only reasonable that Allianz cover this claim cost. Its difficult  to know exactly  how much  that 
should be. I suggested £150 would be a reasonable amount. Both Allianz  and Mr and Mrs M 
agreed to that. So Allianz will need  to pay them £150 for this.     
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Allianz  Insurance Plc will need to pay Mr and Mrs M £150 to 
cover the electricity costs  and whatever is required  to take their total compensation payment 
to £1,600. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 March 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4656996