K820x#14summary and background to complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that GE Money  Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) will 
not refund  any commission it received from the payment protection insurance (PPI) 
premiums for the policy they took out with their loan in August 2005.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about commission.  Thats  
because they have already complained about the mis-sale of the PPI in 2012 and this has 
been dealt with by the business. It is now too late for this service  to look into that element of 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I know this will disappoint  them, and Ill explain 
why. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
GE Money  has given  me information  that shows Mr and Mrs Bs loan was taken  out in 
August 2005 and ended in January 2008 . So based on what  Ive said above, I dont think the 
unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer  Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment,  or 
the rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission 
apply here.
So GE Money doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs B paid for the PPI 
they had with their loan.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2019.
Ref: DRN44364982Rachel Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4436498