K820x#14Complaint
Miss E complained because National Westminster Bank Plc refused to refund a number of 
debits to a betting firm. They were for around £6,500,  and Miss E said she hadnt  authorised  
them.
Background
Starting on 5 May 2017, around £6,500 was debited to Miss Es NatWest  account in favour 
of a betting firm. There were 217 transactions, all authenticated  using Miss Es debit card.
On 11 June, NatWest became suspicious of the transactions, and blocked Miss Es card.  
NatWest tried to contact Miss E, but the mobile numbers and email address it held for her 
didnt work.  After two weeks,  the bank unblocked  the card.
On 18 September,  Miss E rang NatWest. She said her ex-partner had been using her card, 
which hed done  before with another of her accounts  at a different bank. She told the 
NatWest adviser that she used the account for savings, and hadnt been  checking it. 
NatWest said it would cancel the card and send her a replacement.  It asked  Miss E for a list 
of which  transactions  she disputed.
NatWest investigated,  but didnt accept  Miss Es claim  that the disputed transactions  should 
be refunded. Miss E felt her card should  have been  stopped earlier, but NatWest  said that 
the reason why it hadnt done  this was that all the transactions  had been  made  using 
Miss Es genuine card. The bank pointed  out that when  Miss E had phoned on 18 
September, it had stopped the card straightaway, and sent a replacement  the next day. 
NatWest also noted that Miss E believed that her ex-partner  was responsible.  It said that 
was a civil dispute, not something the bank would refund.
Miss E wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She told one of our investigators that 
shed never  used the betting firm, or any gambling websites. She also said shed never  used 
online banking or mobile banking.  Miss E said she usually checked her balance  over the 
phone about once a month,  though she hadnt done  during  this period. She also told the 
investigator that shed  contacted the betting  firm, which had said the account had been 
opened in her name. The betting firm wouldnt refund her either.
The investigator didnt  uphold Miss Es complaint. He obtained  information  from NatWest 
and also from the betting firm, including some call recordings. He said these showed that 
Miss E had initially told the betting firm that some  transactions on the betting  accounts in her 
name were genuine, but most had been done by her ex-partner. But when passed  to the 
betting firms fraud  team,  shed said that none  of the transactions  were hers.
In the call recordings, the betting firm had asked Miss E why it had taken her so long to 
notice the transactions. She said shed  noticed  some on an account with another  bank, but 
hadnt noticed on her NatWest account which she said was a savings account. Miss E told 
the betting firm that shed  reported her ex-partner to the police about transactions  in the 
past, and was going to report him about  the NatWest ones.
Also in the calls,  the betting firm had also told Miss E that the transactions  had been done  
using Miss Es card and the security  number on the back of the card.  So the transactions 
must have  been  done by someone close to her. And the IP address  the number identifying  
the computer  location  - had shown that the transactions  had taken place in the area where 
Ref: DRN45606322Miss E lived. That IP address matched the one which had been  used when  Miss E had set 
up online  banking with NatWest in April 2017.  The betting firm told Miss E that it wasnt liable 
if someone had taken her details, and shed have to go to the police. It told her that all the 
betting accounts in her name had been closed in June 2017, but it wasnt going to refund the 
transactions.
Our investigator also considered the electronic evidence which  NatWest  had provided, 
showing how the transactions had been made. Miss E had said that other  transactions  at a 
similar time had been  genuine  and the same  card details had been  used for those, as for 
the disputed betting transactions. There hadnt  been any attempts to use the card which had 
failed because of incorrect information  being  entered. And the correct three digit security  
code on the back  of the card had been used on at least two occasions. The information used 
to set up the account with the betting  firm had been  genuine, with address, phone number 
and email address  matching those on NatWests  records and another banks records.
The investigator didnt  think an opportunistic  fraudster had taken the card and replaced it 
without Miss Es knowledge.  Nor, after considering the evidence, did he think  it likely that 
someone known  to Miss E had carried out the transactions. So he concluded that Miss E 
had authorised the transactions.
Miss E sent a detailed reply to the investigators view.  Among  other points, Miss E said:
-shed never set up online banking with NatWest;
-shed known there were other accounts in her name with the betting  firm, but they 
were for smaller  amounts, and shed asked the police to investigate  this;
-the reason  she hadnt disputed the NatWest transactions earlier  was that it was just a 
savings account;
-she believed her ex-partner had copied  the details on her card. Miss E said theyd 
never lived together because he was a gambling  addict and hed been  involved with 
the police  many  times;
-she thought  it was irrelevant who had committed the fraud but NatWest  had a duty to 
protect her money and hadnt done so.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Miss E has raised multiple points in her 
submissions to this service. Ive understood and looked into all of these, but Ive commented  
on what I think is vital to my conclusions.
The relevant  regulations  for Miss Es complaint are the Payment  Services  Regulations 2009.
These set out that the payment service  user (Miss E) is liable for transactions that were 
authorised, and NatWest  for transactions that werent authorised. So the issue  for me to 
determine is whether  or not Miss E authorised the transactions.
Having considered all the evidence, Ive concluded that Miss E did authorise the 
transactions, because: 
-The same  card details were used for the transactions which  Miss E said were 
genuine, and for the betting firm ones which she said werent genuine.  On at least 
two occasions,  this included the three  digit security code  on the back  of the card. I  
consider this means its likely  that the person who used the card would have had it 
with them when  they made  the transactions. Miss E originally told us that her ex-
Ref: DRN45606323partner only had access to her home in July 2017. But the disputed  transactions took 
place earlier than this, in May and June, not at the time when she said he ex-partner  
had had access to her home.
 
-Miss E didnt report and dispute  the transactions  in May and June until mid 
September. Shes said this was because it was a savings  account   but she also told 
the investigator that she normally checked monthly but hadnt  done so. Its up to 
customers to take responsibility for monitoring their own accounts. And I find Miss Es 
statements particularly surprising, because in her phone calls to the betting firm she 
claimed her ex-partner had done  this before. In such circumstances,  Id have 
expected her to keep  a particularly close watch on her card, and to monitor  her bank 
accounts rigorously,  if she hadnt made the transactions herself. 
-The IP address  which was used for the betting firm transactions was the same as 
that used for the transactions Miss E accepted as genuine. So these activities took 
place in the same geographical area, and probably  from the same device.
-The IP address  used  was also the same  as that which had been used to set up 
online banking on Miss Es NatWest account  in April 2017. I recognise  that Miss E 
told our investigator that the online banking hadnt  been  set up by her. On balance, I 
consider its likely that Miss E set up online banking, rather  than her ex-partner had 
fraudulently set up online banking on her account. Shes repeatedly  said that theyd  
never lived together, and she initially said it was only in July 2017 that he might  have  
had access to her home  as he was helping her at that time. Apart from her six 
children, Miss E lived alone.
-As well as the security  codes  being correct, the security answers provided when the 
card was used on betting had also been correct. Anyone whod carried  out the 
transactions without  Miss Es consent  would have  needed many  things: repeated 
access to the same  IP address; all Miss Es personal details  including  security 
questions; email address and passwords; and access to the other  three bank 
accounts registered on the betting firm account in Miss Es name. Given that Miss E 
has said her ex-partner never lived with her, and that they never had any joint 
finances, I consider  its unlikely that he or any other third party would have had 
access to this information unless Miss E had willingly allowed him to make  the 
transactions.
Taking all these factors into account, I believe its more likely  than not that Miss E authorised 
the transactions to the betting firm herself. So I dont uphold  her complaint that NatWest 
should refund her the money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October  2019.
Belinda Knight
Ref: DRN45606324Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4560632