K821x#15complaint
Executors, represented  by Ms R, on behalf  of the estate  of the late Mr M, have  complained 
about how Mr Ms insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a water leak claim Mr M had 
made to it several months before he passed  away.
background
In March 2018 there was a leak at Mr Ms home. Hed lived there  for 45 years.  UKI sent a 
loss adjuster out and the adjuster identified Mr M as a vulnerable person. UKI offered to 
move Mr M out of his home, but he was reluctant to go. Mr M did move out of his home in 
May when  work to even dry the property hadnt  progressed. 
The property was dry by the end of June,  and Mr M was able to move  home  at the end of 
October. By this time Mr Ms health  had unfortunately deteriorated and he passed  away  a 
couple of weeks  later.
In the early stages of the claim UKIs contractor obtained an excess payment of £350 from 
Mr M. In June  and July Mr M was asked to pay the excess again. This was ultimately  
resolved but Ms R had to source  proof  of payment to evidence Mr Ms outlay. Then, in 
September 2018 the loss adjuster approved payments of some invoices Ms R had 
submitted, the adjuster authorised payment but deducted the policy  excess  again. This was 
then refunded, with UKI apologising, but again not without  Ms R having  to question it.
Ms R complained to UKI. It accepted it had caused  some delays and not handled  some  
elements of the claim very well. It offered £250 compensation. Ms R and the other executors 
for Mr Ms estate, complained to this service.
Our investigator felt that UKI had handled  things  badly, causing Mr M lots of added stress 
and inconvenience  at an already difficult time.  She felt UKI should pay a further £250, 
making total compensation £500.
Ms R accepted our investigators findings.  UKI didnt. It said the claim, which  was large,  
came at a challenging time for insurers (due to a recent, extreme national weather event) 
and the property reinstatement only took six months, so that was reasonable. Whilst UKI 
accepted it had failed Mr M at times,  it maintained that £250, along with an apology  for its 
actions regarding the excess, was fair and reasonable. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Six months  for a claim of the size in question here might be considered generally 
reasonable. But that negates and/or obfuscates the issue of whether UKI handled this fairly 
and reasonably. Six months is not a reasonable time-frame if, but for failings by UKI, the 
claim could  have been completed in four, for example.  And UKI itself accepts that it caused  
seven weeks of delay.
UKI itself identified and acknowledges that Mr M was a vulnerable  person, and Im sorry to 
learn his situation  deteriorated as the claim went on. I accept it must have been  very 
upsetting for him to see his house  damaged in this way. 
Ref: DRN48722392I note that UKI did make the option  for moving  out of his home available  to Mr M at the 
outset. Whilst  I understand that he didnt want to move,  I cant  fairly blame UKI for any upset 
he was caused  by staying in the home.
I do note this was a challenging time for insurers. But it isnt fair to wave that flag in general 
defence of an, at times, poorly handled claim. For example, drying equipment  was in short 
supply as time progressed after March 2018, but had UKI acted quicker  in those early 
months, it would likely have had drying equipment  in place before the shortage became an 
issue. Whilst Im aware that getting asbestos  specialists involved (which  was necessary 
before the property  could be dried) took time due to the prevailing, national circumstances, 
there was a delay  once  the testing had been done  in getting the relevant removal work 
authorised. This latter delay was avoidable.  
There is then the issue of the excess.  Whilst Ms R handled all of this, I dont doubt hat Mr M 
was caused distress and inconvenience. Hed paid his excess  but in two instances UKI 
sought its payment  again  the first time by its contractor seeking a payment it had already 
received, and the second time by its adjuster deducting the excess from a reimbursement 
payment. I note the adjuster says this was due to an automated  system  but the adjuster is 
there to check and verify all payments so could have checked this and should have 
overridden the system.  
Its unfortunate that Mr M had to suffer a claim  and go through all this in the last few moths of 
his life. UKI isnt responsible for the claim having occurred. But it could and should  have  
done more to avoid causing additional distress and inconvenience  to Mr M, especially as his 
situation deteriorated. Im satisfied that a total of £500 compensation is fairly and reasonably 
due to Mr Ms estate. 
  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require U K Insurance Limited to pay the estate of the late Mr M a 
total of £500 compensation (if £250  has been paid already then only a further £250 will now 
need to be paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4872239