K820x#14complaint
Mrs R1 complains  she and her late husband werent  told the premium for a whole of life 
insurance policy they took out with a predecessor business of Barclays Bank UK Plc could 
become unaffordable. 
background
Mrs R1 is represented in this complaint by her son Mr R2.
In 1999 Mr and Mrs R1 met with representatives  of G, which is now part of Barclays. They  
wanted to reduce the inheritance tax (IHT) burden their sons  would be liable to pay following 
their death.  As well as the marital home  they had substantial savings and investments. G 
recommended a whole of life policy on a joint life, second death basis  from provider  S, 
(which is now O). For an initial annual premium of £5,000 the policy would  pay out 
£400,000 on the second death, and was written in trust for their sons,  so wouldnt form part 
of their estate. The policy  was indexed so the annual premiums, and thus the sum assured, 
could be increased  by 10% or the Retail Prices Index (RPI), whichever was the higher. But 
there would be no premium increases for the first ten years.  In addition  G suggested 
Mr and Mrs R1 start a savings bond also with S. This would generate funds to use towards  
the policys annual  premiums, and be a tax efficient way of reducing the value of their estate 
over time. Mrs R1 isnt complaining about the bond, its included for background. 
Mr R1 sadly passed away in 2004, and Mrs R1 has continued to pay the annual policy 
premium and invest into the bond.  She continued  to meet with advisors from Barclays, 
accompanied after Mr R1s death  by her son. At the 2016 meeting Mr R2 raised the 
possibility of significant increases in life insurance  premiums due to rising  life expectancy. 
Barclays said that was possible but couldnt be specific as the premium  increases are Os 
responsibility. In 2017 Os review  letter  gave  Mrs R1 the option  to maintain the sum assured 
of £1.5m  at an increased premium of almost  £28,000, or reduce the sum assured to £1.2m  
to keep the premium   at around £18,000.  And while the complaint has been  with this service  
the next review  will increase the premium to £66,000, which  Mr R2 considers  unaffordable. 
Mrs R1 says she doesnt recall being told the premiums could go up each year, other  than 
by indexing. Barclays cant provide the point of sale information from G to show  they were  
told. But unless  Mrs R1 continues to fund the policy it may not be sufficient  to cover the IHT 
liability when  she eventually passes away. 
Mr R2 thinks Barclays should  have  advised  his parents differently in 1999.  It might have 
been possible to shop around for a policy where  the premiums wouldnt go up each year.  
And he also thinks the annual review  meetings  didnt consider whether the product remained 
suitable, as Barclays  continued to say its a good  product.  
Barclays says it doesnt provide  tax planning  advice. But it stands by the original 
recommendation as the policy is fulfilling the purpose  it was originally purchased  for. It cant 
provide copies of the Key Features document from S in 1999, but is confident 
Mr and Mrs R1 would have been  told the policy was reviewable. 
So Mr R2 complained  to this service  on behalf of his mother.  One of our investigators 
reviewed the complaint  but didnt uphold  it. She thought the policy  provided  the cover  
Mr and Mrs R1 were  looking for at the time.  And it was most  likely they were  told the policy 
was reviewable, and the premiums would need to rise to maintain the level of cover, even if 
Mrs R1 doesnt now recall  it.
Ref: DRN49657492Mr R2 disagreed. He thought the complaint should  also cover  the ongoing advice provided 
by Barclays. Such a policy was never suitable for someone who lives a long life. And if 
Barclays cant prove it warned his parents  the premiums could rise, we should act as if they 
didnt, and find in Mrs R1s favour.  
As agreement couldnt be reached its been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. Let me explain why.
Firstly I think it would be helpful to set out the responsibilities of the parties  involved,  and 
what that means for the complaint against Barclays. Although Barclays says it doesnt 
provide a tax advisory service, Ive seen a letter from G in 2003  headed  Inheritance Tax 
Planning  with a calculation. So G did provide such advice, and as they sold the policy, 
Barclays is now responsible for ensuring Mr and Mrs R1 understood how the policy  worked 
and that it was right for their circumstances  at the time. 
The policy is provided by O which sends Mrs R1 annual  review  letter  with information about 
the policy and any changes in the premium or the level of cover. It was subject to regular 
reviews by O after the first ten years, and regularly thereafter, to assess its performance.  If it 
passes the review no changes are necessary.  But if the policy  fails, then the premium will 
rise to maintain  the level of cover. If Mrs R1 is unhappy that the ten year review in 2009 
didnt take place, or with any subsequent  policy  reviews she can complain to O (not 
Barclays). And then to this service, if shes unhappy  with their response. 
The policy was sold in 1999, so its not surprising Barclays has little information relating to a 
sale which took place  twenty years ago, by a business it subsequently took over.  Businesses 
arent required to keep records indefinitely, and it wouldnt be fair to automatically find in a 
consumers favour simply because the business cant provide  historical  information.  Where 
evidence isnt available Ive based my decision on what I think is most likely  to have 
happened.
Mr R2 thinks the complaint should  cover the ongoing advice provided  by Barclays  and 
whether Mrs R1 should have been  advised to change  IHT strategy some years  after the 
initial sale. For example  selling the property  (where Mr R2 now lives), or sourcing a non-
reviewable life insurance product if one was available.  But Mrs R1 hasnt complained to 
Barclays about these  issues, so I wont be addressing them in this decision.  
Was the policy suitable to mitigate  their IHT liability?
Its not unusual  for a whole-of-life  policy  to be used for this purpose.  And its suitable so long 
as its made  clear the policy  is reviewable after the first ten years.  The policy  held in trust for 
Mrs R1s sons, and will pay out a sum on her death to be used towards the IHT due on her 
estate. The issue is the balance between the level of cover and the premium payable.  From 
the outset Mr and Mrs R1 had considerable assets  including a valuable property, so the 
value of their estate (and therefore the IHT liability) was likely to increase over time. But the 
future IHT liability could only be estimated, as the value of assets, the timing of the second  
Ref: DRN49657493death and market performance  were unknown variables. The premiums were  set by O (not 
Barclays), based on what was known about their circumstances  at the time.  
I think affordability of the policy was a factor from the outset. If it wasnt, Id have expected 
the sum assured to have  been around  £500,000  which  was the IHT liability  at the time, but 
the premium would also have been  higher  from the start. 
As Mrs R1 has said, unlike most  insurance  which covers things which might not happen, a 
whole of life policy covers something  which  will definitely happen (the death of the life 
assured). The unknown  factor is when it will happen. Estimating this is how underwriters 
calculate the premium,  but its not an exact science. The cost of life assurance inevitably 
increases with age. But that doesnt make  the policy unsuitable at the time of sale,  as it had 
the potential to pay out considerably more than had been paid in premiums. At the time of 
sale Mr and Mrs R1 were in their sixties and described themselves as in good  health. They  
werent asked to provide medical evidence,  just basic information and smoker  status.  As it 
happened, Mr R1 passed away  only five years after the policy  started whereas Mrs R1 has 
reached the age of 80. But the business  couldnt have foreseen this, particularly without 
medical evidence.  And as it will pay out a sum on the second death  to mitigate the IHT I 
think the policy does  meet the objective Mr and Mrs R1s took it for, so I cant  say it wasnt 
suitable for them. 
Was another product more suitable?
I cant know whether another product on the market  was more suited to Mr and Mrs R1s 
needs at the time. But even if one existed,  this doesnt mean the recommendation for this 
product was wrong, or that Mr and Mrs R1 would have done  something different. Gs letter  
from May 1999 describes S as one of the most competitive life assurance providers in 
relation to costs , with an excellent  reputation for tolerant  underwriting. This suggests to me 
G considered other products would be more  expensive,  or less likely to provide cover to 
people of their age without medical  evidence. Given the ongoing relationship with 
Mr and Mrs R1 Ive no reason to think G would  have recommended  this policy it didnt think it 
was a good option for them.  
Mr R2 believes a non-reviewable policy would have  been better for his parents. Barclays 
says O didnt offer these  at the time - they were introduced  some  years later. Policies  from 
other providers may have  been available, but I think its likely a non-reviewable policy would 
have been more expensive from the outset. Ive explained above why I think  Mr and Mrs R1 
didnt want to pay a higher  initial  premium.  And if the premiums (and sum assured) remained 
static or only increased in line with the cost of living, and the value of the estate appreciated 
faster, the policy would soon fail to keep  pace. So even  if a non-reviewable policy  was 
available to Mr and Mrs R1 its not certain they would have chosen  it. And overall I think  
Mr R2 is saying this with the benefit  of hindsight, and I must base my decision on what was 
reasonably known at the time.  
Were Mr and Mrs R1 told the policy was reviewable and premiums could rise?
Mrs R1 says when  G calculated their IHT liability in 1999 it was much  higher than theyd 
expected. Her understanding  was the product was a savings plan, into which  theyd pay 
annual premiums of £5,000  until they died. At which point the policy would pay out £400,000. 
But I dont think the evidence supports this. Under the terms of the policy the amount of 
cover can be increased annually by 10% or the Retail Prices Index (RPI) whichever  is the 
greater. In the absence of the actual document, Barclays provided  a copy of a key features 
Ref: DRN49657494brochure containing similar information to what would have been provided at the time.  Ive 
shared this with Mr R2 who initially said his parents couldnt have received it, as theyre 
scrupulous about retaining  all their paperwork.  So I should rely on Mrs R1s recollection of 
what she was told at the meeting. I dont doubt her sincerity, but I think  memories of an 
event which  took place twenty years  ago are unlikely to be completely reliable. So while  Ive 
considered her testimony, Ive relied  more on the evidence I do have. 
Gs letter from May 1999 introducing the product says The life cover is guaranteed for the 
first 10 years . It goes  on to explain at this point S would review the investment performance 
to ensure there are sufficient funds  within  the plan to continue the life cover. Although  the 
inference here is investment performance would be sufficient  (which was the expectation at 
the time), it shows Mr and Mrs R1 were  alerted to the life cover only being  guaranteed for 
ten years  even before they applied  for it. 
The letter goes on to explain deductions  are made from the plan towards the life cover  
element, which  could significantly reduce investment growth.  Although expectations about 
market performance were more optimistic  than has proved to be the case,  I dont think  that 
means Mr and Mrs R1 were misled, as the policy document says returns are not guaranteed. 
And from 2011, O amended its review letters to reflect  increases in life expectancy and the 
poorer investment performance. Until then its offer of cover  had been based on fund growth 
of 6%, which was now unrealistic. 
Mr R2 subsequently found his parents copy of the four page Key Features leaflet, which  he 
doesnt think adequately explained  how the policy worked. But I cant agree. On the first 
page the third bold heading Risk Factors reads You may need  to increase your payments  
after the tenth  year to ensure that the life cover  .. lasts for as long as you need it. It goes 
on to say How much you pay will be affected by the increasing cost of life cover ..as you 
get older,charges . and investment returns. I think  this makes it clear a premium rise after 
the tenth year may not just be optional, or related to indexing. 
At the 2016 review meeting, Mr R2 asked Barclays whether the premiums for Mrs Rs policy  
were likely to rise significantly as hed heard this was possible, due to increased life 
expectancy. I think  its unlikely hed have raised  this if he knew  this was against the policy  
terms. 
And if the premiums and sum assured only increased by 10% or RPI, the policy  would be 
unlikely to keep  pace with the IHT liability, particularly as the cost of life insurance became 
more expensive. At the outset the sum assured of £400,000 didnt quite cover the estimated 
IHT of more than £500,000. It caught up by 2002 due to indexing,  and in any case  it was 
less likely the policy would need to pay out in the first ten years. And had the cover been  
higher from the outset  the premium would  have been more expensive.  The most recent 
calculation shows the IHT liability to be £1.2m,  meaning a 10% annual increase wouldnt 
have been sufficient to achieve  this. So Im satisfied Mr and Mrs R1 should have been aware 
their policy would become  more  expensive over time, as they aged,  and as sum assured 
needed to rise. 
What are Mrs R1s options?
Mrs R1 has paid around £191,000 in premiums and the policys  surrender value is just shy of 
£136,000. Shed like to withdraw the £136,000,  and just pay the policys premium  as it falls 
due. But that isnt possible, as surrendering  the policy would cancel it, and then thered be 
nothing in place  to meet the IHT liability. 
Ref: DRN49657495The Key Features document says If your payments stop and your Plan has an encashment  
value, it will become paid-up. The cover  will remain in force and monthly charges for 
maintaining the life cover will be made by cancellation of units.  The Plan will lapse and cover 
will cease when the Plan has no encashment value. So if Mrs R1 stops paying the 
premiums the policy will remain in place  for a period  of time, with a reducing sum assured. 
Mrs R1 has also said she would accept the premium remaining at the 2016 level with an 
option to increase cover by 10% if she accepts a 10% increase in premium. Making the 
policy paid up or proposing a lower premium (and a reducing sum assured), would need to 
be discussed with Barclays  or O directly.  And both options would mean the policy would still 
pay out something towards the IHT for a period of time. I dont think Mrs R1 should  see her 
investment as worthless as the estate would  currently benefit from a sum assured about 
eight times  the value  of the premiums  paid.
In summary  I dont think Barclays provided  unsuitable advice in its recommendation of a 
reviewable whole of life policy. And while Mrs R1 might not remember being  told, Im 
persuaded she was made aware  the premiums and sum assured  would  be reviewed after 
ten years, and could rise to maintain the life cover. 
Barclays has offered Mrs R1 £150  for not responding  to her complaint promptly. I assume  
that offer is still open to her if she wishes  to accept it. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R1 to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4965749