K820x#14complaint
Mrs J, a director of S Ltd, complains that Markel International Insurance  Company Limited 
(Markel) have unfairly declined her companys claim for legal expenses. 
background
S Ltd, a residential family centre, holds a social welfare insurance policy with Markel. In June 
2017, Ofsted (the companys regulator) took action to withdraw  S Ltds  registration as its 
care centre was deemed inadequate, and the compliance notice previously issued by the 
regulator had not been complied with. 
S Ltd made representations to appeal this outcome, but Ofsted  refused  to overturn its 
decision to cancel the companys registration.  As a result,  S Ltd took the case  to the first-tier 
tribunal (care standards) to challenge Ofsteds  decision. And the company sought  to claim 
under its social  welfare policy with Markel  for the costs it would incur in taking action to 
challenge the regulator.
Markel said that the policy did not provide cover for legal expenses  per se, but that it did 
include cover  for management  liability and entity defence. However, the insurer  said that 
neither of these  sections  of the policy would  respond to cover  the costs  of taking action 
against Ofsted. They also declined to provide any compensation for court  attendance under 
the policy. Unhappy  with this, S Ltd referred its complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought that Markels interpretation of the 
policy terms and conditions was fair; and considered that the policy was for the defence of 
claims made  against the insured  not for initiating proceedings of the sort S Ltd had 
mounted against Ofsted. So the investigator agreed that the circumstances of S Ltds  claim 
did not meet  the requirements for cover under either of the sections it had proposed. S Ltd 
disagreed, so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it, and Ill explain why.
Ive considered Markels  decision to decline the claim under each of the proposed heads of 
cover to establish whether their decision was fair and reasonable in the context of S Ltds 
claim. The relevant  sections that have been  cited are: management  liability  (including 
officers liability and disqualification  proceedings);  entity defence and compensation for court  
attendance. 
management liability:  officers liability
Section 3a of the policy terms and conditions provides cover for:
a.Officers liability
We will pay any officer for their legal liability for damages and costs awarded against 
them arising from any claim first made  against  themwhich arises from any actual or 
Ref: DRN43707812alleged wrongful act, error or omission committed or attempted by an officer during 
their performance of their duties as an officer of yours.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs J is an officer  of yours given that shes  a director  of S Ltd. But 
Markel submit that this section does not apply as it is intended to cover  claims against 
individual officers in their capacity as an officer, not for action being taken against a whole 
company, as in S Ltds case. 
But Mrs J submits that the action taken  by Ofsted against S Ltd is simultaneously  being 
taken against  her, as it has certain  consequences  for her in her capacity as an officer.  As 
such, she contends that individual officers are covered under this section to negate  
allegations made against them. 
I appreciate that Mrs J feels strongly that Ofsteds  decision  was an attack  on her individually  
as an officer. And I accept that cover would potentially be available  under this section if 
direct action were in fact being taken against  Mrs J for acts or omissions carried out in her 
capacity as an officer. But as it stands, Ofsteds decision was in relation to cancelling the 
registration of the registered provider, which is S Ltd as a company. Limited companies  and 
their officers/directors  are discrete legal persons. The regulator was not taking action against 
Mrs J individually, or accusing her of wrongdoing in her capacity as an individual officer.  So I 
do not consider  Markels interpretation  of this policy section to be unreasonable.
management liability:  disqualification proceedings
Section 3c of the policy sets out:
c.Disqualification proceedings
We will pay any officer for costs and expenses  arising from disqualification 
proceedings which are first ordered or commissioned and reported to us during the 
period of insurance shown in the policy schedule.
Disqualification proceedings are further  defined by the policy as meaning legal action taken 
against the officer following which they are liable to be disqualified from continuing to be a 
director or officer of yours . 
Mrs J submits that it was necessary for S Ltd to appeal against Ofsteds decision in the 
tribunal because not doing so would have  resulted  in Ofsted not only cancelling the 
companys registration,  but also Mrs J being  disqualified in law from being a childcare 
provider. So she says the tribunal ought  to be considered as disqualification proceedings 
under the policy.  And even though the action  was technically  brought  by S Ltd, Mrs J says it 
was the only available  response  to the decision being taken by Ofsted in order  to avoid her 
being disqualified as a director.  
Ive considered Mrs Js submissions carefully. But again, I cant ignore  that the purpose of 
Ofsteds decision was to cancel the registration  of the registered provider  which was the 
company S Ltd. It was not seeking  to disqualify  Mrs J personally  as a company director or 
issue proceedings to that effect,  so I do not consider the circumstances of the tribunal to be 
covered by this section.  The action taken by S Ltd in the tribunal  was ultimately to challenge 
an administrative decision concerning the companys registration; it was not specifically in 
relation to preserving Mrs Js status as a company director. 
Ref: DRN43707813I appreciate that Mrs J considers disqualification to be a potential  consequence of the 
cancellation (although this appears to be debatable based on later correspondence where 
Mrs J was told by her solicitor that the disqualification regulations and effects do not apply to 
residential family assessment centres). But in any event,  I consider it a strained 
interpretation to say that the tribunal case ought to be regarded as disqualification 
proceedings in itself because, fundamentally, that was not the nature of the decision taken 
by Ofsted, or the subsequent challenge of that decision in the tribunal. 
So I do not think Markel have acted  unreasonably  by denying cover under  this section. 
entity defence:  investigations
Section 4c of the policy reads:
c.Investigations
We will pay you for costs  and expenses arising  from an investigation which  is first 
ordered and commissioned and reported  to us during the period of insurance  shown 
in the policy  schedule.
The term investigation is further defined by the policy as any official investigation, 
examination, inquiry or other proceedings instigated against you by any official body or 
institution, other than HM Revenue & Customs,  that is empowered to investigate  your affairs 
in respect of health  and safety.
S Ltd says that this section of the policy is engaged because Ofsted is an official  body who is 
empowered to investigate  affairs  in a way which has caused a risk to its business, and that 
adverse publicity exists  to an extent that fulfils  the policys definition  of crisis. Amongst other 
things, the policy defines a crisis as investigation by any official  body that is empowered  to 
investigate your affairs where in our opinion there  is a risk to your business as a 
consequence of adverse  press But in referring to the need for a crisis,  S Ltd appears  to 
have conflated the requirements of cover  under  section 4c (investigations), which  has no 
such requirement, with other  sections.  
The only section of the entity defence cover that seemingly requires a crisis  is section 4a:
a.Public relations crisis  management
We will pay you for costs  resulting from the use, with our prior agreement,  of the 
crisis response service following a crisis .
This section  provides cover for the costs of using the insurers  crisis response service,  which  
the policy describes  as public relations specialists. It does  not provide cover  for legal costs 
and expenses of the sort S Ltd is seeking to recover after taking action against Ofsted in a 
tribunal setting. S Ltd says it also had to engage solicitors and counsel to defend  its 
reputation before the Family Court  due to the risk of potential adverse findings  being 
disclosed by the District Judge. I havent  been  provided with any further information in 
relation to this. But again, I do not think this section of the policy  would cover such  costs, as 
it only covers  the costs of the insured using Markels crisis response service,  not the insured 
instructing its own legal team. So I do not consider section 4a to be engaged in either  of 
these circumstances.
Ref: DRN43707814I have therefore  considered  the requirements  of section 4c as they are stated in the overall  
and correct context  of the policy (namely, without  interpolating the definition of crisis)  where 
cover requires an investigation  i.e. an official investigation examination, inquiry  or other 
proceedings instigated against  you by any official body or institutionthat  is empowered  to 
investigate your affairs in respect of health and safety.
Markel declined cover  under this section  as they said that Ofsted  undertake inspections 
routinely as part of the ordinary course  of the insureds business, so it cannot  be considered 
a health and safety investigation. But on the other hand, S Ltd submits that there  was an 
investigation by an official body (Ofsted) in respect  of health and safety in which they had to 
respond. It acknowledged  that there hadnt  been  an accident which was being  investigated  
by the Health and Safety  Executive, for example, but that there  was conduct which  the 
regulator was saying was unsafe and failing to meet statutory requirements.
I accept there may have  been elements of Ofsteds inspection that wouldve been  concerned  
with health and safety in the broadest sense.  But it would likely have been just one measure 
being considered amongst various  others  as part of a routine inspection  that led to the 
regulator issuing  requirements on S Ltd to improve, which were  not subsequently met and 
led to the companys registration being  cancelled. So Im not persuaded that this can 
reasonably constitute  a health and safety investigation of the sort the policy  was intended to 
indemnify, and I consider Markels reasons  to decline cover on this basis  to be fair in the 
circumstances. 
management liability:  compensation for court attendance
S Ltd further  contends that it is entitled  to compensation  for court  attendance under  section  
3n of the policy which sets out:
n.Compensation for court attendance
If at our request any officer of yours or any employee attends  a court as a witness  in 
connection with a claim we will pay the following amounts:
for any officer £500 per day
for any employee £250 per day
for each  day on which attendance  is required.  
S Ltd says that the tribunal proceedings required the attendance of its officers  and 
employees as witnesses, and that it is unreasonable for Markel not to pay compensation 
under this section.  But this policy  section  will only cover court attendance that has been  
requested by the insurer, not for officers and employees to attend proceedings that have 
been initiated by the company  itself. So I do not consider it unreasonable  that Markel did not 
accept the insureds claim under this section either.  
Finally, S Ltd says that Markel initially provided  the services of a consultancy to assist with 
the claim,  which it says demonstrates there was an acceptance that the company was 
covered for their dispute with Ofsted. But I dont agree.  An insurer  is entitled to assess the 
validity of a claim by appointing  third parties before deciding whether or not to provide 
indemnity. And Im not persuaded  that the initial appointment of a third-party consultancy by 
Markel would amount  to an express  or implied  acceptance of the claim by the insurer.
Ref: DRN43707815In summary,  and after considering each of the policy sections above, I do not consider  
Markel to have declined  S Ltds claim unfairly. I appreciate this has been a difficult  time for 
Mrs J, and I understand that she is currently disputing  the tribunal judgment  and overall  
conduct of the inspectors throughout the whole process. But Im afraid this does not make a 
difference in terms  of whether the action being taken falls into the scope of cover under the 
policy. And for the reasons  outlined above, Im not persuaded  that the circumstances of 
S Ltds dispute with Ofsted are covered by the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.  
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4370781