K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that he wasnt made aware  that PRA Group (UK) Limited had arranged  a 
replacement extended  guarantee policy after it was assigned his loan account.  He says he 
paid for MOTs and servicing  which he shouldnt have had to do. He would like PRA to 
refund him the cost of the policy.
background
Mr W financed  the purchase  of a car in February  2014 through a point of sale loan. The price 
of the car was £1,299.25  but he also bought an extended guarantee for £1,995.  Altogether 
he borrowed  £3,294.25  and he was required to pay back a total of £5,032.20  at £83.87 per 
month over five years. 
The loan account was assigned from the original provider (A) to another  business (K) in 
2014.  When K was assigned the loan, PRA was acting as its agent  and administering  the 
account. PRA was then assigned  the account  at the end of 2014
The provider of the guarantee went into administration around the same time, but PRA found 
an alternative policy which was administered on the insurers behalf  by a company  Ill refer 
to as M. PRA says it asked M to write to affected customers  and let them  know it would offer 
an alternative policy in June 2015. Customers would  automatically be opted in for the cover, 
unless they got in contact to say they didnt want the policy.  
Mr W complained  to PRA in April 2018.  He said:
he hadnt received  communication  regarding  the administration of his account or 
confirmation of the replacement  policy and had been  paying  for his car to be serviced 
and MOTd
during a phone  call in April 2018 he was advised that he didnt have an account with 
PRA
In response PRA said it hadnt  sent Mr W account statements between August 2015  and 
September 2017. But it pointed out it wrote  to him in September  2017 to address this and 
had already reduced his account balance by £787.48 to put this right.  
PRA also said M wrote to Mr W in June 2015  and enclosed a copy  of the letter. It explained 
this letter  gave him the opportunity to opt out of the new policy  and included  a copy of the 
policy terms and conditions. 
PRA said that during  the phone call in April 2018 its adviser had confirmed the account was 
owned by PRA but was being  managed by a recovery agent  and provided  the details for 
Mr W to contact the agent directly. So, it didnt  agree  that the adviser  had given Mr W 
incorrect information over the phone.
PRA did though confirm that Mr W hadnt contacted  M or made  any use of the policy. So, it 
offered to write off the outstanding account balance of £212.15. 
Unhappy with PRAs  response Mr W referred  his complaint to this service. He said it wasnt 
fair that he be charged for the policy when hadnt been able to use it. 
The adjudicator who reviewed his complaint determined that Mr W had been  sent notification  
of the new policy.  And that Mr W was required to contact M before arranging  a service or 
MOT and hadnt, - so she didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. 
Ref: DRN46093302PRA accepted her assessment. But Mr W didnt, in response he said:
he only received  the letters notifying him of the new policy  after hed made  a 
complaint;
no one had attempted to contact  him by phone to let him know about the policy,
he hadnt received four years of the cover hed paid for and the policy  had cost him 
thousands of pounds. 
So, the complaint has been passed  to me decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr W has confirmed  that hes satisfied 
with PRAs explanation of what happened in the phone  call in April 2018.  And his complaint 
to this service is regarding the replacement guarantee policy  and the communication around 
this, so thats what Ive considered under this decision. I havent looked at Mr W not 
receiving statements between 2015  and 2017 or the interest  refund he received as a result.   
Im required  to decide what, if anything,  PRA should  do to resolve this complaint.  In doing 
that, I must decide  what I think is fair and reasonable, having regard to (amongst other  
things) any relevant  law. 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (Section 75) says that in certain circumstances 
the lender that finances a purchase can be held jointly liable if theres  been  a breach of 
contract by the supplier. 
When PRA was assigned  the debt, it may have taken on the lenders responsibilities under 
Section 75 too. I think PRA has remedied any potential  breach of contract here so; Ive not 
looked into its liability under Section 75 to see if it was obligated to do so. 
The original  extended  guarantee that Mr W bought  in February 2014 was financed  by the 
point of sale agreement. It was due to last for 5 years and covered the cost of any MOTs 
and servicing the car required. 
Im satisfied that when  the original provider of the policy  went  into administration  in 2015  this 
meant Mr W couldnt  get what hed paid for and the contract with the original supplier had 
been breached.  I can see PRA found  another policy - and comparing the documentation for 
the two they seem to offer similar levels of protection.  So, Im satisfied  the new policy  
provided similar benefits to the one Mr W had originally taken.  I think  by sourcing the 
alternative policy for Mr W PRA ensured he could  receive what he paid for. So, this would 
have been enough to put right the breach of contract. 
Mr W says he didnt receive  any confirmation  from PRA that the new policy  had been  
arranged. I can see that he did utilise the original policy when it was in place. And I dont 
think Mr W would have paid for his car to be MOTd or serviced if he knew he could have 
arranged it for free under the policy. So, on balance, I dont think  Mr W was aware that an 
alternative policy had been arranged. 
Ref: DRN46093303But I do think PRA did enough to let Mr W know it had arranged the new policy. PRA has 
provided copies  of two letters it says it sent to Mr W in October 2014 and February 2015. 
The 2014  letter explained  the loan had been taken over by K but would be administered by 
PRA. The 2015  letter explained that PRA had been assigned the loan. 
Mr W has confirmed  he received PRAs February  2015 letter  and another  letter the following 
month.  Both letters  included contact  details for PRA. They  also provided contact details for 
A. So, I think he was aware in February 2015 that PRA had become the owner of his 
account and he could contact it if he had any queries  about  his loan.  
PRA has also provided two letters it says were sent to Mr W from M in June and
August 2015.  These both explain the replacement policy had been arranged and included  
Ms details should Mr W need to get in touch or want to opt out. 
Mr W says the letters  from M werent  received. But I can see they were correctly addressed 
and think they were enough  for PRA to notify him that the new policy was in place.  I dont 
think there was any obligation on PRA to contact customers  by phone as Mr W has 
suggested. And I think Mr W could have got in contact with PRA or A to see if it had any 
information about the extended guarantee if he hadnt received any other notification or 
when it was time for his next service or MOT.  
I appreciate Mr W hasnt  made use of the policy, but I think  a replacement  had been  put in 
place, was available for him to use and PRA had made reasonable attempts to make Mr W 
aware. So, I think PRA did enough  to put right any breach  of contract  and satisfy  any 
obligations it might  have had to Mr W under Section 75. 
I think its important I also explain what I would award if I thought PRA had liability  under  
Section 75 and it hadnt already put right the breach of contract. 
Mr W has asked  for a refund of what he paid towards the extended guarantee policy  but 
what Id ask PRA to do to put things right is remedy the breach of contract. In this instance 
the policy Mr W signed up to should have meant he didnt have to pay anything towards 
servicing and MOTing the car while the policy was in place. So what Id ask PRA to do to 
put things right would  be to cover the costs  Mr W incurred MOTing  and servicing  the car. 
This would mean that Mr W had got what hed paid for when signing up to the policy.   
PRA has written-off £212.15  from the account  balance meaning Mr W has nothing further to 
pay. This is a little less than what Mr W has paid overall for servicing and MOTs.  So if it 
hadnt already  put right the breach Id only ask PRA to pay Mr W the difference and not what  
hed asked for to resolve the complaint.  
Overall, I cant see that PRA has treated Mr W unfairly and I think the £212.15 written- off 
from the account balance is a fair resolution to the complaint  so Im not asking it to do 
anything else.  
I can see PRA has told Mr W the insurer wouldnt pay out his claim because he hadnt  used 
an approved garage.  Whether  or not to reimburse  Mr W for the MOT and service he did pay 
for is for the insurer to decide  and its not something I can look at as part of this complaint 
against PRA.   But Mr W can contact the insurer directly to make a claim and may be able to 
complain to this service if hes unhappy with its response.  
Ref: DRN46093304my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and make no award against PRA Group (UK) Limited.  Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mr W to accept or reject 
my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Chris Bick
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4609330