K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax unfairly rejected his claim made 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974(CCA). He seeks  a refund of the purchase 
price of a computer that was supplied in the wrong  colour.
background
Mr L tells us that in April 2018  he ordered a computer, from a retailer  Ill refer to as C, 
which his wife had previously viewed online. He says this was paid for on his Halifax credit  
card. And that he intended  to give it to his wife as a present. Mr L states that he specifically 
ordered the computer that his wife had seen  advertised as it was silver in colour. And that 
because of his wifes  strong preference for this colour he wouldnt have ordered it if the 
colour had been  other than silver. When the computer arrived he found it was brown. He 
says that when he phoned  C it gave  him incorrect informant about his rights  to reject the 
goods. And he says that Halifax has now refused his claim for a refund.
Halifax told us that it wouldve  immediately been  apparent to Mr L that the computer was not 
the colour hed ordered. And it pointed  out that hed had software downloaded onto it. By 
using the product in this way it said hed accepted  the discrepancy in colour.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said that he accepted  
the item had been misrepresented. But he thought  that Mr L had multiple opportunities to 
raise the issue with the retailer. He thought that Mr L must have seen upon delivery that the 
item was coloured brown. He said that Mr L had arranged for software  to be downloaded. 
And that his wife had continued to use the computer. So he didnt think  a full refund would be 
appropriate and he wouldnt be asking  Halifax to do anything else.
Mr L didnt agree with this outcome.  As its not been possible to resolve this complaint  an 
ombudsmans been asked to make this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr L feels strongly about this matter. And I understand hed be disappointed to 
be supplied  with goods which werent in accordance  with the advertised description.
Ive been provided  with a substantial amount of information by the parties. And Ive read 
through this and taken it all on board.  Mr L has also made a large number of specific 
references to aspects of law which he thinks are relevant. If I dont refer to each  individual  
aspect of the information its because I dont think it necessary to mention  it separately in 
giving the reasons for my decision. And its important  to note that this complaint is against 
Halifax - not C. So I shant be making  any decision  regarding the actions of C unless Halifax 
is liable  for these. And thats limited  to issues of misrepresentation and/or breach of contract.
Its also worth clarifying Im not deciding Halifax liability  under section 75 of the CCA. We 
certainly take into account the relevant law and that includes section 75. But we dont apply it 
- directly  - in the same  way as a court might do. We decide cases by considering what is fair 
and reasonable,  as statute requires us to do. What Im deciding is whether Halifax  did 
enough in considering Mr Ls complaint. And if it didnt, what  else it should  now do.
Ref: DRN43346872The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr L has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the supplier of the goods he can also bring that claim against Halifax 
provided certain conditions are met. 
The basic  facts of this complaint  arent  in dispute.  Mr L ordered a silver coloured computer 
and the computer that was delivered was coloured  brown. It seems to me that this is 
probably the single most relevant piece of information. Its also not in dispute  that Mr L then 
passed the computer to a friend  of his to download some  software.  Whilst this was 
happening it seems  the latest security updates were automatically  uploaded on to the 
computer.
Ive accepted Mr Ls statement that he wouldnt have gone  ahead  with the purchase if hed 
known the item was coloured brown and not silver. To amount to a misrepresentation a 
statement of fact has to be false. But it also has to induce the consumer to enter the 
transaction. In other words it must occur before the agreement  and cause the consumer to 
enter the agreement when they might not have otherwise done so. So if colour  hadnt  been 
material to Mr Ls choice  there wouldnt have been  a misrepresentation. There  might still 
have been a breach of contract  and Ill deal with that aspect  in more detail later.
A few days  after the computer arrived,  Mr L phoned  C, to try and amicably settle the 
matter. He says that he was given false information about the circumstances under which it 
could be returned.  And that he was told that hed accepted the item by switching it on and 
downloading software.
Whilst I can understand Mr Ls concern at being given what  he thought to be erroneous 
information its not something for which Halifax is responsible. Halifax  is not responsible for 
incorrect information given by C after the agreement has been  entered. For the reasons Ive 
explained its not capable of being  a misrepresentation. And the information  itself is not a 
breach of contract - as opposed to arising from enquires into a probable breach of contract.
When the computer  was supplied the only known issue in dispute was the colour. As the 
item was intended for his wife, it wouldve been  a simple matter  for Mr L to ask her if she 
was prepared to accept the difference  in colour.  It appears he didnt do so until later. Instead 
he arranged with a friend to download  some software. In hindsight its probably  that decision 
which has led to the current circumstances. If itd been decided immediately upon delivery 
that his wife didnt want to accept the computer in that colour, Mr L wouldve been entitled to 
reject the item without  further reason.
Instead he decided  to phone C and try to settle  the matter. I infer he may have been open to 
some offer of compensation or reduction  on the cost price.  And I make  no criticism of any 
attempt to resolve the problem informally. I consider it a sensible and reasonable course  of 
action. 
Even though  Mr L was only concerned  about the colour I dont  agree with any suggestion 
that simply turning  on the computer meant hed accepted it. It wasnt  strictly  necessary  in 
order to make his complaint to C. But a consumer is allowed to inspect goods to see if 
theyre of satisfactory  quality. And with an item such as a computer the basic act of turning it 
on is not incompatible  with such  an inspection.
Ref: DRN43346873Whether some of the security updates automatically  uploaded  upon  the computer being  
started is not, in my opinion, of any relevance to the facts  of this particular complaint. If the 
goods were supplied in a condition so that this would  happen  upon  reasonable inspection 
then the retailer  cant justifiably complain. But I can see no plausible  reason why it was 
necessary to download the additional software  prior to complaining to C. 
Ive already said I dont  apply  the law directly. But in dealing with a complaint where theres 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract I also have to consider how things should be 
put right. This requires me to consider, amongst other issues, if the consumer has sought  to 
mitigate the loss and/or  has affirmed the contract. In other words, has the consumer tried to 
reasonably reduce any loss they may incur? Or have they acted as if they accepted  the 
goods despite knowing of the misrepresentation or breach of contract?  If so, the right to 
terminate the contract and reject the goods  is no longer available.  And affirmation can occur 
expressly or impliedly,  by conduct  as well as words. 
Here, the breach of contract or misrepresentation related  solely to the colour of the item.   In 
my opinion, downloading the additional software was an unnecessary  act and one which 
was consistent  with affirming the contract.  Whether Mr L had any physical part in doing this 
has no bearing on the complaint. He gave permission for this to be done. And that is the 
action of someone who asserts acceptance  of the item.
There was also no attempt to mitigate loss. At the point the goods were delivered  the 
discrepancy in colour ought reasonably to have been apparent.  If that was the reason for the 
goods to be rejected there was no need to do anything other than return  the computer to C 
and obtain a refund.
Mr L has commented that he isnt aware of any ombudsmans decision that said that using 
goods took preference over another partys breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
Ombudsmans decisions are based on the individual facts of each case. So one decision 
isnt binding upon any future  complaint. And it may be that a party  which has been  subject of 
a misrepresentation  or breach of contract  is not seeking to reject goods.  So it would be 
entirely reasonable in those circumstances to continue  to use the goods whilst  seeking a 
different remedy.
Here, Mr L advised the investigator that his wife continued to use the computer. By doing  so 
it ought to have been apparent that the value  of the item would be further diminished. The 
only misrepresentation or breach of contract here relates solely to a cosmetic  issue.  Its not 
fair and reasonable to have enjoyed  the benefit  of extensively using goods  and then to 
expect a full refund if they were to be returned now.
In summary,  Im satisfied  that Halifax took relevant  factors into consideration when 
considering Mr Ls claim. In deciding that C was correct to refuse to offer a full refund on the 
purchase price of the goods it made a reasonable decision. Accordingly Im not upholding 
this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN43346874Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4334687