K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that The Shepherds Friendly  Society Limited (Shepherds  Friendly)  has 
declined the claim  she made on her income protection policy.
background
Miss R applied for an income  protection policy with Shepherds Friendly  in June 2018. The 
initial application was made via a third party acting for Miss R, who passed  her application to 
Shepherds Friendly, who then contacted  her. As part of the application process  she was 
asked a series of questions about  her health and lifestyle. Based on the answers she 
provided, her application was accepted  on standard terms,  with no premium  rating  and no 
exclusions, and her policy started  on 6 June 2018.
Miss R submitted a claim to Shepherds  Friendly in July 2018 together  with a medical 
certificate stating shed been  signed off work with abdominal pain.  
Shepherds Friendly declined her claim as they said when  shed  applied  for the policy  shed 
failed to declare  seeing a health  professional,  in relation to a condition affecting  her stomach 
and shed failed  to declare she was receiving treatment for a current  condition. Shepherds 
Friendly requested  copies of Miss Rs medical records,  which showed Miss R saw her GP on 
1 June 2018 for a number of conditions,  and was prescribed medication for tonsillitis  and 
tension headaches. Shed also called the NHS  111 helpline on 4 June 2018 for advice on 
abdominal pain and saw her GP on 5 June 2018  for a blood test which was booked  on 1 
June 2018. 
Shepherds Friendly said Miss R was receiving active  treatment at the time of her application, 
which she should have  declared. And if shed disclosed this her application would  have been  
postponed for three months,  because of her recurrent headaches, and until the cause of her 
abdominal pain was determined and the result of her blood test had been  reviewed. And 
they told Miss R they had to assess her claim as if shed declared this information at the time 
of her application. So her claim  had been  declined as abdominal pain was a pre-existing 
condition. And as she became incapacitated during  the time when her plan would have been 
postponed, had she declared her true current medical condition, theyd also cancelled her 
policy, which the terms and conditions entitled  them to do.
Miss R complained to Shepherds Friendly as she said shed  stopped taking the medication 
prescribed on 1 June  2018, so she wasnt having any active treatment. She said the 
stomach pain shed experienced on 4 June  2018  was a reaction to the medication  shed 
been prescribed, not an illness or a pre-existing condition. She also said she wasnt  suffering 
from abdominal pain when she applied for the plan. And finally  that the blood test she had on 
5 June 2018 was routine. 
Shepherds Friendly werent prepared to review  their decision. In their response  they also 
said that when  Miss R raised  her complaint shed referred to a period  of absence from work 
due to work related stress. A review  of her medical  records confirmed she was signed off 
from work,  due to work  related stress,  from July to August 2017. And shed also been signed  
off work between March  and April 2018  after her fathers death. They said these  absences  
were significant enough  to warrant a mental  health  exclusion on her plan, but as her other 
undisclosed symptoms  were enough  to cause the application to be postponed, these 
absences had been disregarded  in investigating  her complaint.
Ref: DRN44878252In response to this Miss R said shed declared her work related stress,  and her absence 
from work in April 2018 was after her fathers death, when the policy  was being arranged, 
and she didnt consider grief, or bereavement, to be a mental health condition.  And as she 
hadnt received  any treatment she felt her claim should be paid.
Miss R complained to our service. Our investigator considered  the case but didnt uphold  her 
complaint. Miss R didnt  agree with our investigators opinion as she said her headaches and 
sore throat were  linked to her nasal polyps,  which  shed declared. And the blood test was a 
routine follow-up after her surgery  on her nasal polyps.  
So the case has come  to me for a decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive listened to the call recordings of 
Miss Rs conversations, with the third party who arranged her policy,  and with Shepherds 
Friendly.
Ill consider first the comments made  by Shepherds Friendly,  in their letter of 5 September  
2018, about Miss Rs failure to declare periods of absence from work,  as a result  of work 
related stress and bereavement. Which Miss R has says she did declare. Although 
Shepherds Friendly said they disregarded  these absences  for the purposes of the complaint 
investigation, they said the absences  were significant enough for the plan to be subject to a 
mental health exclusion. 
Having listened  to the call recordings Miss R did disclose this information to the third party,  
but they didnt include  it when they passed  her application to Shepherds Friendly.  So I think,  
in the circumstances, it was correct  that these absences were disregarded when assessing 
her claim.
The terms of Miss Rs policy contain  the following provisions which I consider to my relevant 
to her complaint.
Section 5.1, states the plan may expire for a number of reasons including:-
if you have not provided us with accurate  information at the time you apply for your plan. 
Section 9.1 states:-
You must provide  us with accurate and complete information when applying for your plan.
And section  15.3 states:-
We may not be able to pay a claim if the information you provided to us when applying for 
the plan was not true
In the underwriting guidance  used  by Shepherds  Friendly it says a decision on acceptance 
onto the plan:-
Ref: DRN44878253for clients currently absent  from work, or awaiting medical investigation, experiencing 
symptoms, or awaiting a doctors/surgical appointment will have to be postponed until full 
details/diagnosis/full recovery has taken place.
Miss R applied for the income protection plan on 5 June 2018. When  making  the application 
she was asked whether  shed  seen  a health  professional for Any condition  affecting your, 
stomach, oesophagus or bowel, for example  Crohns disease, ulcerative colitis?  
Miss R replied No to this question, even though shed called the NHS 111 helpline  on 1 
June 2018 for advice  regarding abdominal  pain.  Miss R has said she thought  her stomach 
pain was related  to medication shed been prescribed, but the pain was significant enough 
for her to call the helpline,  so I think it should  have  been disclosed.  And Miss R has now told 
us her stomach problems  were related to a cyst, and not to the medication shed been  
taking. Although Miss R has said shed  not sought advice for this problem, shed  sought  
advice for the symptoms,  so the condition  would be regarded  as pre-existing.
When applying for the plan Miss R was also asked the following:-
Apart from anything you have already told us about  in this application, in the last 12 months 
have you 
Had any medical condition, illness or injury  that you are currently receiving treatments for or 
have received treatment  for over a continuous  period of four weeks or more?
and
Apart from anything  you have already told us about in this application,  do you have any 
medical condition  or symptom that you have an appointment to see a doctor  or nurse for in 
the next three weeks?
A review of Miss Rs medical records shows that she had a number of pre-existing medical 
conditions which she did disclose, but there  were  others she didnt.  She  saw her GP on 1 
June 2018, four days before she applied  for the policy,  complaining  of a sore throat and 
headaches. She was prescribed  a course  of medication for both complaints. So, even 
though Miss R has said shed decided to stop taking the medication, when she applied  for 
the policy she was receiving treatment, and should have declared this.
Miss R also had an appointment  at her GPs surgery on 5 June 2018, the date she applied  
for the policy, for a blood test, which she didnt declare.  Shes  says this was because  it was 
a routine blood test. But her medical  records indicate she was concerned she might  have a 
thyroid problem, and this test was to check her thyroid  function.  I also think this should have 
been disclosed, as it was a nurses  appointment within the three  week timescale she was 
asked about.
So I dont  think Miss R provided accurate information to Shepherds  Friendly  when she 
applied for the policy. And had she done so, in accordance with the policy  terms and 
conditions, I think Shepherds  Friendly would have postponed her application for three 
months until the cause  of her abdominal pain was established, to see if her headaches  
resolved and until the results of her blood  test were  known. 
Miss R made a claim  under the policy on 17 July 2018 for absence from work  due to 
abdominal pain. On her claim form she stated her symptoms started on 2 July 2018. But, Im 
Ref: DRN44878254satisfied she had abdominal symptoms before she applied for the policy,  so the symptoms 
would be regarded as pre-existing. So I dont think Shepherds Friendly did anything  wrong  in 
declining the claim,  particularly  as had Miss R declared her symptoms, the start date of the 
policy would have been postponed, and the claim was made  in what  would have been the 
postponement period.
The policy terms allow Shepherds  Friendly to cancel  the policy  if accurate  information isnt 
provided. And, as Miss R didnt provide accurate information when she applied for the policy, 
I think Shepherds Friendly was entitled  to cancel  her policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint against  The Shepherds 
Friendly Society Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2019.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4487825