K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Mr and Mrs K says Nottingham Building  Society mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Nottingham shouldve  made it clear  the PPI was optional.  And it shouldve  got Mr and 
Mrs Ks agreement  to buy it. Mr and Mrs K indicated that they wanted  to buy the PPI 
when they applied for their mortgage. And Mr and Mrs K needed to complete a 
separate application form for the PPI. I cant see that they were told they had to have 
the PPI to start the mortgage. So I think Nottingham made it clear that Mr and Mrs K 
didnt have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why they cant remember this.
Nottingham didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs K so it didnt have to check  if it 
was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs K got the information 
they needed to decide if it was right for them. Its possible  the information  Nottingham 
gave Mr and Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. 
Mrs K had a medical condition when she applied for the policy. The documentation 
form the time of sale shows  that she told Nottingham about  this. She wouldnt have 
been able to claim on the policy for the first year if it was related to her medical 
condition. Her medical condition was covered after the first year. It looks  like this was 
pointed out to Mrs K and it doesnt  look like they were affected by any of the other 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI. So I dont any further information about the 
exclusions wouldve made  a difference to them buying the policy  at the time.
Mrs K says she tried to make  a claim on the policy. The claim wasnt  paid because 
Mrs K returned to work before the 60 day waiting period. This is how the policy  works  
so Nottingham wasnt acting incorrectly when it did this. Its not clear if this was 
pointed out to Mr and Mrs K at the time of sale, but Im also not persuaded that this 
wouldve made a difference  to them buying the policy at the time. 
As I said earlier Mr and Mrs K chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time the 
policy could have  been useful for them if something went  wrong. It also looks like the 
PPI was affordable.  So, overall,  I dont think better information  about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. Which means Nottingham doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K.
But Nottingham will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K because: 
Ref: DRN42078042Nottingham got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs K about that. Because Nottingham 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs K, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nottingham has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs K have  said. Before the complaint was brought  to 
this Service I can see that Nottingham offered to refund  half of the premiums payable.  It said 
this was because  of Mr Ks employment.  But its not clear to my why it offered this and, as 
Ive said above,  I dont think the policy was mis-sold.  So Im not able to say that this offer 
was the right way to resolve the complaint. So overall these points dont change my 
decision.
what the business needs  to do
Nottingham has to pay back to Mr and Mrs K any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Nottingham should also pay back to Mr and Mrs K any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Nottingham should pay back to Mr and Mrs K the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nottingham should 
also pay Mr and Mrs K 8%* simple  interest on each payment  (15% on payments before  April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs K can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nottingham Building Society does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K.
But Nottingham Building Society  does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs K any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4207804