K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Santander UK plc refused  to make a chargeback  for a trade show she 
booked that wasnt  as advertised, and for a marketing service she didnt receive.
background
Mrs P booked a stand at trade show in the United States of America.  She says she also paid 
for e-mail marketing. But the event wasnt as described as the buyer  seller  ratio wasnt  5:1 
as advertised and some of the advertised buyers didnt attend. Mrs P says she didnt receive  
a copy of the event  terms and conditions from the event organiser and asked Santander  to 
raise a chargeback.  She says Santander hasnt done so and hasnt  considered the evidence 
she gave it. Mrs P would  like the cost of the event and her travel costs refunded.
Santander says it must  follow the chargeback rules which its not responsible  for. It says 
there was no reasonable prospect of a successful chargeback here and so was right not to 
make one. Santander says Mrs P received a stand at the event  that went ahead.  So it 
couldnt raise a chargeback on the basis the event didnt go ahead  or was not largely as 
described. It also says it received a copy of the marketing material  that shows Mrs P was 
included in it.
Mrs P brought her complaint to us but investigator  didnt think  Santander had made a 
mistake and thought  it unlikely  a chargeback wouldve been successful. She explained  a 
chargeback isnt a right and in this case Santander  had reasonably taken the view there was 
no reasonable prospect of success.  The investigator  thought Mrs Ps product had been 
included in the marketing e-mails and that the trade event  did take place.
Mrs P doesnt accept that view and says the event  was misrepresented  and believes the 
chargeback guidelines do cover this sort of situation.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  for the same  reasons. I realise  Mrs P will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly she feels  about  whats  
happened. But Ive come to the decision that Santander couldnt  reasonably  assist  her here.
As Mrs P knows the chargeback rules  are set by the card providers and not as in this case 
Santander. We would normally expect a bank or building society  to raise a chargeback  
unless it took the view that there  were no reasonable prospects of success. That is what 
Santander says happened here.
I can see that Mrs P booked a place  at the trade show  and that event took place. I 
appreciate some of the companies  that were advertised as attending did not and that Mrs P 
says the buyer and seller ratio wasnt what was advertised.  But Im satisfied  Santander has 
fairly concluded that there were not any chargeback rights here as the event took place and 
was largely as described. Im also satisfied that Santander fairly  concluded  that there wasnt  
a reasonable prospect of a successful chargeback for those reasons.
I appreciate Mrs P believes there has been a misrepresentation  and I accept the event may 
not have been what she was expecting. But I have to consider Santanders role here and not 
that of the company that organised  the event. And having done so and for the reasons Ive 
Ref: DRN42490432explained Im satisfied that Santander has come to the reasonable conclusion that a 
chargeback would not have met the scheme rules here. I think  it likely that even if Santander 
had raised a chargeback then the merchant wouldve successfully defended it by providing 
the evidence that the event took place with the main advertised companies.
Im also satisfied that Mrs P did receive the marketing  service she paid for. I say that as Ive 
seen a copy of the marketing  e-mail sent by the event organiser in which details  of Mrs Ps 
product are contained.  So again I dont think Santander made a mistake  or acted unfairly  by 
not making a chargeback for that issue.
Overall I dont think Santander has made a mistake here or acted unfairly. So I cant ask it to 
refund the cost of this event and or Mrs Ps travel costs. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4249043