K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs M says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard  (Barclays), mis-sold her 
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. Ive been given a copy  
of the credit card application  form which was completed at the time and this includes a 
section about  PPI. In this section there are boxes to complete to accept or decline the cover.  
On Mrs Ms form I can see that a cross  has been placed in the yes box. Mrs M has signed 
the form which suggests that she agreed  with everything that had been  entered.  
Mrs Ms representatives have said that they dont think Mrs M was placed  in a position  to 
truly understand that she had a choice about the cover. Ive thought about their comments  
but the form clearly  showed that Mrs M could have declined to take out the policy.  And if she 
didnt want to take out the PPI she could have placed a cross in the no box.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told I think Barclays made it clear  that the policy 
was optional and that Mrs M agreed to take it out, knowing she could refuse it if she didnt  
want it.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover  she has told us she would only receive  statutory 
sick pay if she was too ill to work and had no savings or other means  with which  to meet her 
repayments.
Its possible the information Barclays  gave  Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell Mrs M, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN45637622To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs M any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4563762