K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that charges Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited trading as Audi 
Finance (Audi) applied  for damage to her car are unfair. She would like her complaint to be 
looked at fairly.
background
Miss M says when her hire contract with Audi ended  it charged her £1,654.34 for damage 
over and above normal wear and tear on her car. She doesnt  feel this is realistic given the 
mileage and the amount of time she has had the car.
She says she accepts there is a burn mark on one of the seats  for which  she is liable for. But 
feels the other costs  relate to marks that could be removed with a good clean. She says she 
willingly paid the additional cost of excess mileage but doesnt feel these charges are fair on 
top.
She says Audi say the damage affects the value of the car but she disputes that. She feels 
the excess mileage charge she had paid covers any devaluation  of the car. She also doesnt 
feel she had the chance to talk to someone to dispute the charges.
Audi said as Miss M didnt agree with the charges it commissioned  an independent report.  
This agreed  the charges  were fair with the exception of one of £110 for repair to the left hand  
door. As a result it removed this charge.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He found the charges were  fairly applied.
Audi accepted this view but Miss M didnt. She felt it was unreasonable  to expect the car to 
be returned in an as new condition when she had had it for three years and driven over 
70,000 miles.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss M feels she had had the car for three years and driven considerable 
mileage so she feels its unreasonable to expect the car not to have any damage. She has 
also made the point  she has willingly  paid excess mileage charges  which, in her view, would 
cover any devaluation of the car. 
Miss Ms complaint to us isnt about excess mileage charges so I am not going to cover  that 
here. If she feels  those were unfair she could consider putting in a separate complaint.
But I should point  out that excess  mileage charges and charges  for damage over and above 
normal wear and tear are separate issues. So just because Miss M says she willingly  paid 
the excess mileage charges that doesnt mean  she isnt liable for charges for damage to the 
car.
Ive seen the contract Miss M signed.  That makes it clear she was responsible  for keeping  
the car in good repair and condition.  It does  allow  for fair wear and tear.  So  I dont think 
there is any expectation that the car would be returned in an as new condition.  
Ref: DRN45869622To judge if any damage is chargeable Audi uses the Fair Wear and Tear Guidelines issued 
by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVLA).  This is standard practice in 
the Motor Industry.
Ive seen the initial report on the car. It refers to scratches, dents and gouges.  I dont agree 
with Miss Ms view that all of these issues could  be resolved by a good clean.
Our adjudicator has referenced the damage  in the report  to specific BVLA Guidelines. So I 
am not going  to repeat  that here. But I have considered the Guidelines and I agree with his 
assessment.
As Miss M didnt  accept the first report Audi then commissioned an independent  
assessment. As a result  of this second report Audi removed the charge for damage to one of 
the doors. I think that was fair.
I asked for a copy of this report which I have now read. Along with reference  to damage to 
the left hand door which Volkswagen has already  dealt with by removing the charge for this I 
have noted the report also states  that the left hand  rear door and rear vising only require 
block and polish. Having  raised this with Volkswagen it has agreed to reduce these two 
charges from £110.40 each to £18.00 each. I think this is fair as I dont think its reasonable 
to accept some, but not all, of the findings of an independent report.
Miss M said she wanted her complaint  to be looked  at honestly and fairly. She also 
commented she hadnt had the chance to speak  to anyone at Audi. Its not for us to 
comment on Audis policy for dealing with complaints. But I think in commissioning a second 
report Audi did listen and take on board Miss Ms comments.  I dont know  why Volkswagen  
didnt fully implement  the findings of the independent report. But out role is not to punish  
businesses and as Volkswagen has agreed to reduce  its charges  to take into account all of 
the findings of the independent report I feel this is a fair response.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi 
Finance should  either reduce its charges by a total of £184.80 or refund this amount  if Miss 
M has already paid the charges in full.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4586962