K820x#14complaint
This complaint is being made  by Mr S on behalf of his wife, the late Mrs S, and himself.  In 
the hope that Mr S wont mind, I will refer to the late Mrs S as Mrs S throughout this 
decision.
Mr S says Bank of Scotland  Plc (BoS) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage in 1993. In 1995  they took out a PPI policy.  Even  though 
this was a joint mortgage, only Mr S was covered by the policy  for accident, sickness  and 
unemployment.
They paid a monthly amount for the policy. If Mr S had made a successful claim, the policy 
would have paid out the monthly benefit for up to 12 months if he was unable to work  due to 
accident or sickness or if he was to become  unemployed.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I appreciate  Mr S feels  very strongly about this 
matter and my decision will be disappointing  for him. Ill explain my reasons for reaching this 
outcome.
BoS had to make it clear  to Mr and Mrs S that the policy was optional  and they had to agree 
to take it. Ive seen a copy of a letter which was sent to Mr and Mrs S in 1995 offering the PPI 
cover.  Attached to this letter was an application form and Ive been given a copy  of the 
application form for the PPI which was completed by them at the time. I can see that this has 
been completed showing cover is required for Mr S only.  As this policy was being taken out a 
couple of years after the mortgage had started, I think Mr and Mrs S would have been aware 
that this cover wasnt a requirement of their mortgage. And I cant  see anything  in the letter  
or application form which suggests that the cover had to be taken out or that it wasnt  
optional. 
So based  on everything that Ive seen and been  told, I think  its more likely BoS made
Mr and Mrs S aware the policy was optional and they agreed to take it out, knowing they 
could refuse  it if they didnt want it.
BoS no longer  has the records of how this policy was sold but it has considered the 
complaint on the basis it provided advice to Mr and Mrs S about  the policy. Mr S isnt able to 
recall if he received advice about the policy at the time of the sale.  As it puts a greater  
responsibility on BoS, rather than Mr and Mrs S, I have also considered  this complaint on the 
Ref: DRN48784632basis BoS provided advice to them. This means BoS had to check  that the PPI was right for 
Mr S  and based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example he appears  to have been eligible for the policy and doesnt seem to have been  
affected by any of the main exclusions or limits on the PPI cover,  such as suffering from a 
medical condition  of which he was already  aware.
Mr S has said he was self-employed at the time of taking out the policy  and so he shouldnt 
have been sold the cover. Having checked the policy  terms from the relevant time period I 
can see that cover  is provided for self-employed people and it doesnt appear that it would 
have been any more difficult for him to claim if he was self-employed. So this doesnt  make a 
difference to my outcome.
It also seems  that it would have been  a useful benefit for him. Mr S has told us he wouldnt 
receive any sick pay and they didnt have  any savings  or other  means with which  to meet 
the mortgage repayments.  This policy would have paid out for up to 12 months if he was 
unable to work due to accident,  sickness or unemployment so I think it could have given 
them reassurance that they would have been  able to maintain the payments for the 
mortgage if Mr S wasnt earning.
The letter sent with the PPI application  form explained  how the cost of the policy was 
calculated depending on the amount of the monthly benefit so I think  it would have been 
clear to Mr and Mrs S how much  they would have  to pay for this cover for Mr S. But its 
possible other information BoS gave  them about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But they chose  to take it out for Mr S only - so it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for him if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover.
So, when taking  everything into consideration, I dont think Mr and Mrs S have lost out as a 
result of anything that BoS may have done wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4878463