K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Canada Square  Operations Limited mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI). 
background
Mr H bought the PPI policy in May 2002  when he took out his credit card. Canada Square  
says it was an online application and it didnt advise Mr H to take out the policy.  Mr H cant  
remember much about the sale but he says he didnt need  it as he had good  employee 
benefits and another insurance policy.
I understand the policy cost 74p for each £100 Mr H owed on his credit  card.  If hed 
successfully claimed on the policy, each month it would have paid out 10% of what he owed 
on the card when he stopped working.  This wouldve carried  on for up to 12 months per 
claim.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Hs complaint didnt uphold it. Mr H disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Canada Square  has sent us a copy of its computer records of Mr Hs credit card application,  
along with screenshots of its application  process at the time. The screenshots  show  there  
were yes and no buttons for an applicant to click depending on whether or not they wanted  
PPI. The computer records  for Mr Hs application show  yes has been  clicked.  I cant see 
that this couldve  been done  by anyone other than Mr H. So I think its most likely Mr H had a 
choice about the PPI and decided to take it. 
I dont think Canada Square advised  Mr H to take out the PPI. But it shouldve  given him 
enough information for him to decide if the policy was right for him. 
The screenshots show that the PPI policy information was included underneath the yes and 
no options. Im not sure how the information wouldve appeared on screen,  so I cant  be 
certain Canada  Square  clearly  pointed out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But I dont 
think Mr H wouldve been affected  by any of these. 
Canada Square  explained on the screen  the cost of the policy  was 74p for each  £100  owed. 
But I dont think it was clear interest  could  be charged on the premiums,  or that Mr H 
wouldve had to keep  paying for the policy during a claim. 
Mr H says he believes hed have got six months full pay followed by six months half pay 
when he took out the policy, although hes not entirely sure.  He says he also had an accident 
and sickness policy with another provider  which wouldve paid more  than three months but 
less than six months of his salary. But he no longer has any documents  to show exactly  how 
the policy worked. On balance, on the information  Ive got, I think the PPI  which,  as Ive 
Ref: DRN43854602said, wouldve helped with Mr Hs card repayments  for up to 12 months for each successful 
accident, sickness or unemployment claim  he made   could still have given him a useful  
benefit.
Because of this, I think Mr H would  still have bought the policy if hed fully understood the 
cost and the benefits. So overall, I dont think the policy was mis-sold, which  means Canada 
Square doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr H about that. Because Canada Square  didnt 
tell Mr H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold   so Canada  Square 
Operations Limited doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4385460