K821x#15complaint
Mr H and Mrs E complain  that a car they financed through an agreement with Close Brothers 
Limited (Close Brothers)  has not been  of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr H and Mrs E took receipt of a used car in March 2017. They  financed  the deal through  a 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers.  At the point of supply the car had completed 
about 90,000 miles  and was about  14 years  old.
Mr H and Mrs E say they had problems  with the car from the outset. They contacted  the 
dealership in late March and the dealership referred them  to a preferred third party  garage 
who carried out a service and replaced  the gearbox  oil and filter. They  also repaired a 
radiator leak and Mr H and Mrs E claim they replaced the battery which was too small and 
the tyres  which they say were balding when  the vehicle was supplied.
But when they got the car back  they were still experiencing  a stream of problems  including:
a slipping gearbox
a radiator that was still leaking
grinding on one of the wheels
a broken door handle
They say they reported the issues to the dealership and the car was returned to their 
preferred third party garage in May 2017. But when it was eventually returned to them  at the 
end of August  2017 the problems werent resolved and there were further issues  identified  
such as a failing ball joint and parking sensors that would  not work.
They therefore complained to Close Brothers and the car was returned to the dealership  in 
December 2017.  In February 2018  the dealership  explained that the gearbox was broken. 
They blamed  a poor repair  by the third party garage  who they said had used inferior gearbox 
oil. Mr H and Mrs E say that the estimated repair cost was £3,500.
Close Brothers tried to organise a third party inspection of the car. But this wasnt possible 
as the car didnt  have an MOT and could not be test driven. When  Mr H tried to obtain an 
MOT the car failed for many reasons including major faults  with the suspension; a passenger  
door that would not open and excessive play in a track rod ball joint. The MOT garage said 
the mileage at this point  was unreadable.
So Close Brothers  said that as an independent  inspection wasnt  possible they could not 
confirm whether a fault was likely to have been  present at the point of supply and they 
therefore rejected  Mr H and Mrs Es complaint. 
Mr H and Mrs E referred their complaint to this service  and our adjudicator  provided  an 
opinion. He thought it was clear  the car had first been taken in for a repair  in March 2017 but 
that repair hadnt been successful. He noted  that the car had been out of Mr H and Mrs Es 
possession for many  months  and he didnt think theyd had much  use, if any, from it. So he 
suggested that Close Brothers  allow  Mr H and Mrs E to terminate their agreement; refund 
their deposit  and all payments  that had been  made  towards the agreement to compensate 
Mr H and Mrs E for the loss of use and the distress and inconvenience  theyd experienced, 
and also reimburse  the £338 theyd paid the third party garage for the initial  repair. 
Ref: DRN41190052But Close Brothers  disagreed. They said the visit to the garage  in March 2017  was just for 
serviceable items and that there was no evidence of a faulty gearbox at that time. So they 
didnt think there was evidence of a failed repair and they therefore asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Close Brothers  so please let 
me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H and Mrs E acquired their car under a conditional sale agreement.  This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Close Brother, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable  person would consider satisfactory taking into account  any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr H and Mrs E. 
The car here was around 14 years old and had completed 90,000 miles so I think its 
reasonable to suggest there  would  be signs of wear and tear.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Close Brothers to put this right. 
But Close Brothers  responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for 
its condition at the point of supply  they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Im persuaded that the first attempt at a repair on this car was in March 2017.  I say that 
because in their final response to Mr H and Mrs E, Close Brothers confirmed that. They said:
 you already  had the gearbox  serviced by a third party garage recommended  
by the supplying dealership and this has not resolved the problem, they had 
advised that a new gearbox was required they went on to say the dealer 
advised you had taken the car for an unauthorised  repair on the gearbox,  they 
had used an incorrect gearbox oil which in turn had caused the fault . 
Ref: DRN41190053Close Brothers then said that theyd  consulted with the third party garage who had confirmed 
that the previous gearbox service had been  authorised by the dealership and that based on 
the ongoing fault with the gearbox  being evidenced  within six months they would agree to 
have the vehicle independently inspected to confirm whether  the gearbox problem was 
evident at the point  of sale (supply).
I think the gearbox service referenced  by Close Brothers is most likely to be the service that 
was completed in March  2017. I say that because there have been no other job cards or 
invoices provided  for work on the car.
I therefore dont  accept Close Brothers suggestion that the work  completed in March  2017 
was merely for serviceable items. It appears  from their communication  with the third party  
garage that there was an attempt to service  the gearbox and that the service  was 
unsuccessful. And it appears from the dealerships defence that they accept the third party  
garages repair was unsuccessful. 
The dealership say its because the third party garage put the wrong oil in the gearbox but as 
Close Brothers have admitted they were the third party garage recommended by the 
dealership, its clear  they were working  on the dealerships  behalf;  the repair was unsuccessful  
and in those circumstances Mr H and Mrs E should  be allowed to reject the vehicle.
And even  if Im wrong  about  the gearbox  repairs I think  the car hasnt proven to be of 
satisfactory quality because I dont think a reasonable  person would think  its proven to be 
suitably durable.  I think its clear that Mr H and Mrs E have barely driven  the car. They say 
its done about 6,000 miles in their two and a half year ownership but its difficult  to confirm 
this as the milometer  is no longer readable. I understand that its quite an old car now and 
had already completed a reasonably high mileage when Mr H and Mrs E took receipt of it. 
But in those miles the car has developed  a stream of faults. The list includes, but is no 
limited to; a broken gearbox;  suspension  faults that are listed  as major incidents on the failed 
MOT; excessive play in the track rod ends; a broken door handle and a leaking radiator.
Mr H and Mrs E have  clearly been very inconvenienced by this matter.  Theres been  limited 
information supplied  by the dealership and its been  difficult to establish  a complete chain of 
events. But I am persuaded, from the text messages Ive seen, that the car was with the 
repairer between  May and late August  2017 and had failed completely by December 2017. I 
think it would  be fair to refund most of the monthly  instalments that Mr H and Mrs E have 
made to their finance agreement because theyve barely been able to use the car and I can 
see that when  the adjudicator also took into account  the distress  and inconvenience  that had 
ben caused, he decided that all the finance instalments should be returned. That seems a 
fair and reasonable action so Im asking Close Brothers to do that.
I think its also right to ask Close Brothers  to refund the £338  that Mr H and Mrs E spent on 
the initial repair which theyve provided  an invoice for. Im persuaded that this work should 
have been refunded at the time as it most probably related to the subsequent gearbox failure 
and the radiator leak shouldve been  repaired  free of charge as it was most likely there from 
inception, given the short period of time that had elapsed.
In line with this services usual approach Close Brothers should also refund  the deposit  with 
the requisite interest and they should  remove any adverse reports theyve made to the credit 
reference agencies  as Im persuaded the car should have been rejected much  earlier  and 
before Mr H and Mrs E missed  any payments  on the agreement.
Ref: DRN41190054my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited  to:
refund the deposit and add 8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
terminate the agreement and collect the car at no further  cost to Mr H and Mrs E
refund all monthly  payments that have been  made to reflect the loss of use and distress 
and inconvenience  caused
refund the £338 repair invoice from march 2017
remove any adverse information from the consumers credit  file in relation  to this 
agreement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 January  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4119005