K821x#15complaint
Mr A says Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading as Sunny (Sunny) irresponsibly lent 
to him. He says the loans were unaffordable  as he was borrowing from elsewhere at the 
same time. 
background
This complaint is about four short-term loans Sunny provided to Mr A between 
May and July 2017. Mr As borrowing history is as follows (I have  rounded the figures):
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Monthly
Repayment
1 04/05/2017 28/12/2018 6 £400.00 £108.00
2 24/06/2017 28/09/2018 6 £200.00 £175.00
3 16/07/2017 27/07/2018 6 £150.00 £220.00
4 30/07/2017 28/09/2018 6 £150.00 £268.00
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr As complaint.  He thought the loans  from loan three 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. Sunny initially disagreed but later made an offer in line 
with the adjudicators recommendation.
The offer was passed to Mr A, but he also wanted the first two loans upheld as well. He 
explained he was using other  short-term  lending providers at the time and the borrowing was 
unaffordable. 
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr A could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN41765762the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr A could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
Sunny has made an offer for loans three and four which was in line with the adjudicators 
recommendation. So, I wont make any findings on those  loans  in my decision. 
In response to the offer, Mr A said he also wanted loans one and two to be upheld. He gave  
us copies of his bank statements and details  of his borrowings from other  short-term  loans  at 
the same  time as he was borrowing from Sunny, along with details of repayments in 
comparison to his income. 
Ive considered loans one and two, and like the adjudicator  I cant  see there is any reason for 
me to conclude these  loans shouldnt have been  given. As Ive said above,  at the beginning 
of a lending relationship I dont think its unreasonable for the proportionate checks  to be less 
thorough. And at this point in the lending relationship Sunny was entitled  to rely on the 
information given  to it by Mr A at the point  of borrowing. Also, the repayments  for loans one 
and two didnt  take up a significant proportion of Mr As income.  
Its possible  with the information hes given  us  that Mr As financial  circumstances  
werent correctly reflected  in information he provided, or the other information Sunny  
obtained as a result of its credit checks.  And Mr As actual financial position may well have 
been apparent  if further information  such as his bank statements  had been obtained.
But Sunny could only make a decision  based on the information it had available  at the time. 
And as it was still in the early stage of a lending relationship  taking into account  how long 
each loan was to run with Mr A, I dont think it reached the stage where there was a greater 
risk of the loans being unsustainable  for Mr A. 
Ref: DRN41765763In these circumstances, I dont think Sunny needed  to take further steps to verify the 
information provided. 
So, taking all of this into consideration, I dont  think Sunny was wrong  to have provided loans 
one and two. 
putting things right  clarification of what Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr A paid on loans three and four;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans three and four from Mr As credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr A a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr As complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4176576