K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about the handling  of their claim  under a home  emergency  policy  
underwritten by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA). Mr and Mrs M feel that its engineers 
acted unfairly and unreasonably  and want matters put right.
background 
Mr and Mrs M had a home emergency policy with IPA. In December 2017, something went  
wrong with their boiler and on two occasions, an engineer came  to fix it but failed to do so. 
On the first occasion,  Mr and Mrs M said that the engineer refused to look at the boiler  as he 
thought a kitchen cabinet was an obstacle;  on the second visit, they said the engineer  didnt 
look at the boiler  and thought the issue was the outside condensing  pipe. 
The boiler remained unfixed, so Mr and Mrs M paid for another company to attend. They 
said that it found very quickly that there was a gas leak and the boiler should be condemned. 
Mr and Mrs M said the whole episode was very stressful  and both Mr M and another 
vulnerable relative  living at the property had health issues  negatively affected by the cold.  
They felt IPA couldve done more to assist,  particularly  as there was a gas leak and were  
unhappy about the size of their electricity  bill caused  by the delays by IPA.
Mr and Mrs M complained to IPA. It said on the first visit, the boiler  was working  and that 
Mr and Mrs M were  told that it would be necessary to remove  the cabinet for him to inspect 
it. IPA said that when it received a second call later from Mr and Mrs M saying that the boiler 
had failed, it sent an engineer who found  the fault was due to a frozen condensate pipe, 
which needed upgrading. IPA denied that the engineers failed to spot a gas leak but was 
willing to consider the report  from the independent  company that condemned the boiler to 
reimburse what was covered by the terms of the policy.  It apologised for the fact that the first 
visit wasnt carried out within 24 hours of the issue being reported  as it promised would 
happen and offered £70 compensation.
Mr and Mrs M complained to us. The investigators view was that the independent 
companys evidence was that the boiler was unsafe,  should no longer  be used and there 
was a risk to life. He thought IPAs  engineers  shouldve spotted this and shouldve  looked at 
the boiler before leaving. The investigator  thought due to this failing, Mr and Mrs M and their 
family suffered from the cold due to their health  issues, their Christmas was spoiled, and 
their stress and upset  was increased by both the higher than usual electricity bill and the fact 
that they felt that their lives had been put at risk. He said £2000 compensation was fair and 
reasonable.
IPA disagreed. It said that it didnt think its engineers wouldve found the leak as the boiler 
was working during the first visit and access was inadequate. The investigator said that he 
thought it was possible to access the boiler  from the photos supplied  by IPA and on the first 
visit, the engineer  recorded that he thought there was an electrical problem, but didnt do any 
problem-solving. The investigator said the second engineers view about the pipe was 
inconclusive, and noted that the next day the independent company condemned the boiler 
as unsafe. He didnt change his view.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ref: DRN45574842Having considered  all the evidence available to me, I dont  think  IPAs engineers acted fairly 
or reasonably. The policy covers assistance  with home emergencies and repairs necessary 
due to a home emergency  a home emergency  is a sudden unexpected event which needs 
immediate action to make the home  safe and secure, avoid damage,  make the home  fit to 
live in or restore key services. 
Ive looked at the photos of the old boiler;  I think it was accessible. The photos provided  
show the boiler was in a cupboard but, as far as I can tell, once the cupboard  door is opened 
there seems to be full access to the front of the boiler. And there seems to be room on either  
side of the boiler.  The pipes connecting  the boiler seem to be also accessible as they are 
outside the cupboard. I also note that in the engineers  report, he talked about poor access,  
not inaccessibility. He thought that there might be an electrical  fault, but did nothing. 
I dont think the fact that the boiler  was running  at the time is relevant  IPA hasnt argued 
that there  wasnt a home emergency  and in the depths of winter, heating  is required to make 
a home  fit to live in, particularly for vulnerable consumers  with significant health issues. Its 
fair and reasonable to expect an engineer to at least properly look at the boiler. The second  
engineer also failed to inspect it and the issue of the pipe is irrelevant in my view.  What was 
wrong with the boiler was that it had holes and was unsafe; this is the evidence of the 
independent engineer and IPA hasnt disagreed. 
I think its more likely than not that the boiler was in that condition  when the first engineer 
visited; there was only a week or so between his visit and the independent companys visit. 
And from the independent  companys report, and Mr and Mrs Ms own account  of how 
quickly it found the fault, I think  a visual inspection of the boiler wouldve identified the poor 
state of the boiler.
I think Mr and Mrs M are entitled to compensation. They suffered a delay (and increased 
electricity costs) due to IPAs failure to look at the boiler. They  had to pay an independent 
company to replace the boiler (and the IPA policy says that up to £250  shouldve been 
contributed to these  costs). I think £350 fairly and reasonably  compensates Mr and Mrs M 
for their financial loss for the replacement of the boiler and increased electricity  costs.
I think its relevant that Mr and Mrs M are older  consumers and both they and their family 
suffer from significant health issues. They were vulnerable and suffered from the cold. And 
from reviewing  the evidence, I can see that they were very upset about discovering theyd 
been left with an unsafe boiler for a period over Christmas. While we dont award 
compensation for what couldve  happened, discovering two engineers  left them  with an 
unsafe boiler caused Mr and Mrs M upset and this upset was caused by IPAs  failure  to 
access the boiler. Mr and Mrs M were  also put to the inconvenience of calling three 
engineers in order to deal with their home emergency. 
The trouble  and upset suffered by Mr and Mrs M and their family (who  are all covered by the 
policy) in my view has been significant.  But money never truly compensates  for trouble and 
upset. I have carefully thought about  the upset caused to Mr and Mrs M. Although  I 
appreciate that our investigator proposed a higher sum, I think another £650 is fair and 
reasonable compensation, bearing in mind the circumstances and the evidence  provided, 
and the size of awards made  on similar  cases.
Ref: DRN45574843my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  IPA said it didnt think that the first engineer  wouldve 
found the gas leak as the engineer  said that there was hot water and heating when he 
attended Mr and Mrs Ms property. It remained of the view that access  to the boiler was 
inadequate. But IPA was willing to pay £350  compensation  to Mr and Mrs M, in addition  to 
£150; the total offer was therefore £500. This is what IPA told this service before, so isnt 
new (with the exception  of the offer); I also answered these points in my provisional decision.  
I think the evidence  shows that the boiler  was accessible  and the fact that the boiler was 
running on the first visit is irrelevant  the engineer shouldve properly inspected  it (as 
shouldve the second engineer). IPAs  repetition  of its arguments without further evidence 
doesnt change  my view.
Mr and Mrs M also commented  on my provisional  decision; they said that they felt it was 
nice  but quite minimal . I think it would help if I explain that ombudsmen decisions are 
written with eventual publication in mind;  in order to be readable to third parties  and not 
identify consumers, decisions dont  contain the full detail as set out in the investigators view. 
But I have considered all the evidence and comments  from the parties in reaching my 
decision.
Having reviewed the complaint again, I see no reason to change  my provisional view and will 
make it my final decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Inter Partner  Assistance  SA should pay 
£350 compensation to Mr and Mrs M for their financial loss and another  £650 for their 
trouble and upset.  Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr and Mrs M to accept  or reject  my decision before 31 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4557484