K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
November 2005.  Mrs P say HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC trading at the time of sale as First 
Direct) mis-sold  her the PPI.
background
Mrs P took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2005. Mrs P was covered against accidents,  
sickness and unemployment. She paid a monthly amount for the MPPI policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.
HSBC had to make it clear to Mrs P that the policy was optional  and she had to agree to take 
it. Mrs P has told us she was led to believe she had to take PPI with the mortgage. Neither 
HSBC nor Mrs P has provided much of the paperwork from that time, which isnt surprising 
considering the sale took place many years  ago. So I need  to decide what  I think  is more 
likely to have happened with the information  I do have in front of me.
HSBC has provided  me with a sample of the MPPI  application which it says was in use at 
that time.  This form is separate to the mortgage  application and is entitled  Mortgage 
Repayment Protector. On the form there  are options to select  the type of PPI cover wanted  
and the amount of benefit required.  The form requires a signature from the applicant  to 
confirm that she agrees  with the selection.  I have no reason to doubt  that this is the same or 
a similar  form as the one Mrs P would have  seen and completed during the sale of the 
policy.
Ive also seen a sample  letter that HSBC says would have been sent to Mrs P by the insurer  
after the mortgage application.  I can see that this would have outlined  the costs  of the policy  
to Mrs P in a schedule.  There is nothing  highlighted within this letter that the policy is 
compulsory or that it is a requirement of the mortgage.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think its more  likely that HSBC  made   
Mrs P aware the PPI policy was optional and she took out the PPI policy,  knowing that she 
could decline it if she didnt want it.
Based on the sample documents that I have seen, I am not persuaded HSBC recommended  
the MPPI  to Mrs P so it didnt have  to check if it was right for her. But it did have  to make 
sure she got the information she needed to decide  for herself  if it was right for her.  
Ref: DRN47880622Its possible the information HSBC gave Mrs P about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. 
Mrs P has told us she had 6 months  full and 6 months half sick pay. She recently clarified  
that she had savings of £10,000. She also said she had shares and a cash  ISA although I 
cant be sure how easily  accessible these would  have been for her if needed. The policy 
would provide cover for an extended period of time for longer than her sick pay would cover  
her for. It appears to me the cover would  have been  useful for her if something went  wrong. 
And whilst Ive noted she has told us she had some  savings she could  have used, by having 
this policy  it would enable  her to use these funds  for other expenses in a time of need. It also 
looks like the MPPI  was affordable. So I dont think better information about  the MPPI  would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs P paid on the policy  and whether HSBC 
treated her unfairly. 
HSBC has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because:  
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs P about that. Because  HSBC  didnt tell her, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  Bank  plc does not have to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs P.
But HSBC  Bank plc does have to pay back to Mrs P any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4788062