K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Lloyds  Bank Plc mis-sold  them  a mortgage payment  protection  insurance 
(MPPI) policy.
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage in 1996  and a further advance in 2007.  Mr and Mrs M
took an MPPI policy in 1996 and it covered Mrs M only. The policy was £9.01 and paid by a
monthly premium.
In 2007 they took another MPPI policy out to reflect the changes in their borrowing. Mr and
Mrs M were both covered  by this MPPI and they paid £19.18 a month for the policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision to Mr and Mrs M and Lloyds on 30 March 2019  and asked
both parties to let me know if they had anything they wanted to add before I issued my final
decision.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  reply  to my provisional  decision. Lloyds replied agreeing  with my 
findings and have made an offer on the second  MPPI  policy sold to Mr M. 
As Ive not received any further  evidence or arguments to consider about the first MPPI 
policy I still think this policy wasnt mis-sold. Ive explained my reasons again below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided partially uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill deal with each
sale separately and explain  why.
1996 sale
When selling  the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs M, Lloyds had to make it clear the policy was optional.
It also had to get their agreement to take it out. Mr and Mrs M say they werent made aware
the MPPI  was optional  in 1996.
Mr and Mrs Ms recollections about  the meeting  in 1996 are not detailed. This is 
understandable due to the many  years that have passed since the date of sale.  So Ive 
thought carefully  bout what  they have said and looked at the paperwork provided from that 
time to decide whats more likely  happened.
Lloyds has provided  the mortgage  application  that was completed in 1996. Within  this
application I can see there is a separate section  called Applying for TSB MortgageSure  and
although the form isnt very clear I can see that a tick has been placed  in the Yes box next
to what seems to be a question asking if Mr and Mrs M want  the cover.  There is also an
option to tick No. The application form has been completed and signed following a
discussion with an advisor.  And whilst I cant be sure what  was discussed I think  the form
shows the MPPI was optional and they didnt  have to have it.
Ref: DRN47547922Mr and Mrs M say that they felt pressured  into buying the policy  by Lloyds. I dont doubt that
this is how Mr and Mrs M now recollect the way in which the policy  was sold. But it was a
very long time ago. And they havent given  us any detail  of what  the Lloyds advisor actually
said or did to make  them think that they had to the MPPI in 1996. This is a subjective area
and without further evidence I cant reasonably say that Mr and Mrs M were pressured  into
buying the MPPI.
Lloyds says it recommended the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs M in 1996  so it had to check that it was
right for them. Based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was.
The MPPI taken out in 1996 provide cover for Mrs M only so Ive focused  on her
circumstances at the time. I think the recommendation  was right for Mrs M because:
Mrs M was eligible for the policy.
Based  on what Mrs Ms told us about  her circumstances at the time of sale she
wouldnt have been affected by any of the things the policy didnt  cover   like known
health issues or unusual employment  arrangements.  So there was nothing to stop
her claiming  the full benefit of the policy if shed needed to.
Mrs Ms told us she wouldve received some sick pay from her employer. The MPPI
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if Mrs M was off work due to accident or
sickness. And it would  have provided cover if she was made redundant. This cover
wouldve allowed her to use any employee benefits  to cover other everyday living
expenses.
Mr and Mrs M were  taking on a significant  and long-term financial commitment,  which
was secured on their home. So the effects of not keeping  up with the repayments
couldve been serious for them. And I think having the security that the repayments
wouldve been made if Mrs M was unable  to work  wouldve been important to them.
Ive also no reason to think  the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs M. And as the
policys premiums were  paid monthly, they could have cancelled  it if it no longer met
their needs.
As well as checking the policy  was suitable for Mrs M, Lloyds also shouldve given them
clear information about the policy so that they could make a proper  choice about  whether or
not to take it out. I dont know what steps Lloyds took to do this and its possible some things
werent explained as clearly  as they shouldve been. But I dont  think  clearer  information
wouldve changed their decision. I think theyd still have bought  it. I say this for the same
reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for Mrs M.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M have said about this sale, but these points  dont
change my decision  and for the reasons set out above, I dont think this MPPI was mis-
sold.
I know this will disappointing for Mr and Mrs M but I hope my decision clearly sets out my 
reasons.
2007 sale
When Mr and Mrs M applied for a further advance they were  recommended another  MPPI
Ref: DRN47547923policy. This was arranged so that it would cover both Mr and Mrs M.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about this sale because Lloyds 
recommended the policy  to cover Mr M but I dont think it was suitable  for him. This is 
because Mr M had a medical condition  when he took out the policy  which wouldnt
have been covered. Looking at the application  for the further advance  I can see that there is
a handwritten comment that Mr M has back trouble . Weve asked Mr M for more details
about this and he has confirmed he had sciatica attacks in 2004  and more importantly in
2006 when he took 3 months off work.
Looking at the policy terms Lloyds has referred us to it seems that Mr M would not have
been able to claim for any time off work  for sickness related to his back problems. And
although I appreciate Mr M may not have referred  to his time off work in previous
correspondence with Lloyds, I think the fact that there is evidence from the time of sale to
show his health  was discussed is enough  for me to think the policy  limits werent properly
explained to Mr and Mrs M.
So, I think its unlikely hed have  wanted the MPPI  if Lloyds had made  it clear  that his
medical condition  made  the policy unsuitable for him. So, I think Mr and Mrs M have lost out
because of what Lloyds  did wrong.
Lloyds has responded to my provisional decision and agreed to make  an offer in line with my 
recommendations. This means Lloyds will put Mr and Mrs M in the position  theyd be in now 
if they hadnt taken out the MPPI in 2007. I understand that the policy  has been cancelled, 
so Lloyds will:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount  they paid each month for the MPPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim under the MPPI policy,  Lloyds can take off
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give Mr and Mrs M a
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Lloyds Bank  to pay compensation 
to Mr and Mrs M in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to
accept or reject my decision  before  16 January 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4754792