K820x#14complaint
Mr F complained that he was mis-sold  a critical illness policy,  attached to a business loan, in 
2012. He has also complained about  how HSBC Bank UK Plc dealt with his complaint. 
background
Mr F met with an advisor and business  relationship manager at HSBC on two occasions in 
February 2012. He had recently arranged to take out a business loan for an amount of 
£30,000. Following  the meetings Mr F took out a business protection plan, part of which was 
a decreasing critical illness policy. Mr F said he disclosed  a pre-existing medical condition, 
dystonia, at this meeting and was told that he could make a claim if the condition  recurred in 
the future.  
Mr F, unfortunately, became ill with dystonia in 2017 and is now unable  to work. He 
submitted a claim under the critical illness policy  but this was turned down as his condition  is 
not a listed critical illness  and so is not covered under the policy.  
Mr F complained to HSBC  in November 2017  that the policy  was mis-sold. He said when he 
signed up for the policy he made  it clear to the HSBC advisor that he had been diagnosed  
with dystonia eight to nine years  prior to taking out the policy.  He said he wasnt  told at any 
point that this condition would be excluded  from cover. He said he was told by the advisor 
that any debt with HSBC would  be fully covered  by the business protection  plan,  whether  
through death or critical  illness.  Mr F said that dystonia is a critical illness. 
HSBC responded  to Mr F in January 2018 and didnt uphold his complaint.  It said a fact 
finding document was completed  during the meetings in 2012 and the advisor recommended  
Mr F take out the business protection plan over a nine year term. A policy to provide 
reducing life cover was also recommended, although this doesnt form part of the complaint.  
HSBC said the claims  department has confirmed that Mr Fs condition is not covered under 
the policy and so he doesnt  have  a claim for this particular illness. It was unable to comment 
on what might have  been said in the meetings, however the product literature clearly 
detailed the conditions covered and it thinks adequate steps were taken to inform Mr F of 
what was covered. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Fs complaint. He said Mr F and HSBC  agree that the 
relevant condition disclosed by Mr F in 2012 was a multi  focal  tic. But a recent report  by 
Mr Fs consultant neurologist said the condition he was diagnosed with around fifteen years 
ago was myoclonus and that this is different to a multi-focal  tic. So our investigator didnt 
think HSBC couldve told Mr F he was covered for either myoclonus or dystonia because  it 
wasnt made aware that he had previously been diagnosed with these conditions.
Our investigator said its likely a misunderstanding occurred and HSBC staff may have told 
Mr F that HSBC would still be able to provide  him with life and critical illness cover despite 
him having medical conditions, rather than that he could make a claim for pre-existing 
conditions. 
Our investigator said although  he doesnt  know what was said during  Mr Fs branch visit in 
2012, he doesnt have enough  to fairly  say HSBC mis-sold the policy  by telling Mr F that he 
was covered for his existing illness. He also said consumers have a responsibility to read 
relevant documentation to ensure they are aware  of the key features of the cover. And our 
investigator felt the documentation was clear that it only covers listed  critical illnesses.  
Ref: DRN41986882Our investigator then considered the overall  sale of the policy.  He said the policy was 
suitable for Mr Fs needs at the time because it was recommended  to protect Mr F against  
the £30,000 borrowing and he wouldve been  able to rely on the cover if he had been 
diagnosed with a condition listed in the policy documentation.
Our investigator also looked at the service  provided by HSBC.  He said that when HSBC 
couldnt issue Mr F with a final response  letter  in the required eight weeks, it sent him a 
holding letter with referral  rights to this service. And this is the right action for it to have 
taken. 
Mr F was unhappy with the outcome  and the complaint  has been passed  to me to review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Fs 
complaint.  
Mr F said he bought the policy believing that the pre-existing medical conditions he disclosed 
were covered as critical illnesses under  the policy. And so if any of conditions were  to recur 
he would  be able to make a claim and use the money to pay off the business loan he had 
recently taken out with HSBC. Mr F said it was his HSBC advisor and relationship  manager  
who led him to believe  his conditions were covered under the policy. Mr F feels that he 
should be able to rely on what  they told him during  the meetings in 2012.    
I can see from documentation  dating  from 2012 that Mr F didnt actually disclose dystonia as 
a pre-existing condition.  Mr F agrees  that he disclosed  several  medical conditions, one of 
which was multi focal tics.  Mr F said he believes dystonia and multi focal  tics are the same 
condition. 
But Mr Fs neurologist has said that myoclonic jerks  (the condition Mr F refers to as dystonia) 
is a different condition to multi focal tics. And it was multi focal  tics that were  disclosed by 
Mr F in 2012. If Mr F didnt disclose that he had dystonia then Im satisfied it cant  be the 
case that he was told this condition would be covered under his critical illness policy.   
Mr F said his focus when bringing this complaint was that he feels  he was lied to by the two 
members of HSBC staff with whom  he had the meetings  in 2012. He said that if he had been 
properly informed that none of the medical  conditions he disclosed were covered under the 
policy then he wouldnt have taken  out either the policy  or the related bank loan. 
Its certainly the case that Mr F should  be able to rely on advice and information provided to 
him by HSBC staff.  They are professionals  and are more knowledgeable about the products 
they provide. In addition they have  a duty of care towards him, in particular because  this was 
an advised sale. 
But the difficulty here is that its not possible for me to know precisely what  was said during 
the meetings in 2012. And in situations like this I have to make a decision on the balance of 
probabilities, so what is more likely than not to have occurred. 
I dont know for sure what Mr F was told about his policy and any pre-existing conditions  he 
disclosed prior to taking out the policy. But I think its more  likely than not that theres been a 
Ref: DRN41986883misunderstanding in relation to his pre-existing conditions. I think its likely  Mr F was told that 
the pre-existing conditions  he declared didnt prevent him from taking out the policy, which 
means he would be covered  if he was diagnosed  with any of the listed critical illnesses. And 
this is different to him being  told that the pre-existing  medical conditions were  listed  critical 
illnesses. 
Mr F said he relied on what his advisor  told him rather  than checking  the policy 
documentation. And while I understand that he would to some extent rely on what was said 
to him, he does have  a responsibility to read the relevant documents  and ensure he is aware 
of what his policy does  and doesnt cover. 
Ive also checked  the policy documents and Im satisfied that Mr Fs condition, although 
serious, is not one of the critical illnesses listed under the policy.  And it is only when a 
consumer has a named  condition,  of a specified  seriousness,  that they have a valid claim.
Mr F also complained about the service provided by HSBC after he made a claim on the 
policy. I can see there was a delay in providing  him with a formal  response to his complaint, 
but HSBC wrote to Mr F twice to acknowledge the delay  and to let him know that he could 
refer his complaint  to this service. And this was the right course of action for HSBC to take. 
To sum up, Im satisfied  that Mr F didnt declare dystonia as a pre-existing condition and so 
couldnt have  been told that he would receive a payment if the condition recurred. And I think  
its more likely than not Mr F was told in 2012 that his pre-existing conditions  didnt prevent 
him from taking out a critical illness policy, rather than that he would receive  a payment 
under the policy  if any of the conditions recurred. Im also satisfied that Mr Fs current  
condition is not one of the listed critical illnesses on his policy. 
Mr F said that he wouldnt have taken out the additional lending  if he knew he wasnt 
covered for his existing condition under the critical  illness policy. And Im aware of the 
difficult financial position Mr F now finds himself  in. While I have a great deal of sympathy for 
his situation, I cant  ask HSBC to do more when I am satisfied it hasnt acted unfairly.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, its my final decision that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Martina Ryan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4198688