K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Ms T says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2001.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Ms T owed  on her store card.  The policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Ms T couldnt  work  because 
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided  life cover as well as 
price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms T disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Ms T that the policy was optional and get her consent before 
PPI could be applied  to the account.  
Ive been given a copy of the application form completed at the time of the sale and I can 
see that there is a section  to apply for Account  Cover  the name  used by FICL for PPI. In 
this section it says you should only sign if you want to take out Account Cover. 
Ms T has signed the section to confirm she wanted the cover.  If Ms T didnt want  to take out 
the PPI she could have left this section blank. And she has signed the overall  application 
form which suggests it reflected what she wanted. 
So, based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think FICL made Ms T aware  that she 
didnt have to take out the cover  and that she chose  to take out the PPI, knowing she could 
refuse it if she didnt want it.
Ms T has also told us that she felt pressured  into taking out the cover. She has said she was 
told that taking  out the PPI would increase the chances of her store  card application  being  
approved. And she told us that the process felt very rushed,  with the salesperson  telling her 
where to tick. Ive thought carefully about what Ms T has said but I havent seen anything on 
the form which suggests that the choice in taking PPI had any impact on the success of the 
store card application. And whilst I appreciate she may have felt rushed into taking it out, Ms T 
was making an application for additional credit and so I would have expected her to have read 
Ref: DRN44390532through the document to make sure she agreed with what she was signing. Without any other 
evidence to show what FICL did or said to put pressure on Ms T to take the card, Im unable to 
uphold the complaint on this basis. 
Both FICL and Ms T agree that advice wasnt given during the sale. And as I havent seen 
anything to make me think otherwise, I think thats likely to be right. So FICL didnt have to 
check if the policy was right for her. But FICL did need  to make  sure it gave Ms T clear 
enough information about the policy to enable her to decide  for herself if she should take the 
policy.
Its possible  the information FICL gave Ms T about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Ms T 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements.
Ms T has told us about a medical condition she was suffering from prior to taking out the 
policy. As the policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions this could mean that Ms T may not 
have been able to claim if she was unable to work  due to this condition.  From  what  Ms T has 
told us, this condition  was controlled  with medication and so I dont think she would have 
expected to be off work for more than the 30 day excess period and need to claim because  
of it. Ive thought  carefully about  this and I dont think she would have made a different 
decision if the exclusion had been clearly pointed  out to her.
And I think the policy could have  provided  her with a useful  benefit.  Ms T has told us that she 
would be entitled  to full pay for six months, followed by six months half pay, if she had been 
too ill to work. But this policy  would pay out each month  until she returned to work, or the 
outstanding balance was repaid, whichever came  first. This benefit would have been  paid in 
addition to her sick pay and potentially for longer. And the policy  also provided cover for the 
same length  of time if Ms T was to lose her job. As Ms T doesnt appear to have any other 
means with which  to meet her repayments if she wasnt working, I think this policy  could 
have provided  her with reassurance that her store card account would be paid if something 
was to go wrong.
So, overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think Ms T has lost out as a 
result of anything that FICL may have done  wrong.
Ref: DRN44390533my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4439053