K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  about  an instalment loan she took out with Gain Credit LLC (trading  
as Lending Stream).  She says that the loan was unaffordable.
background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss S and Lending Stream  had told us. And he 
thought that the checks Lending  Stream carried out before giving Miss S her loan were  
proportionate. So he didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. Miss S disagreed  and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  short  term lending on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me 
decide Miss Ss complaint. 
Miss S was provided with a high-interest loan,  intended for short-term use. So Lending 
Stream needed to make sure that it didnt provide it irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Lending Stream needed  to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether any lending was sustainable for Miss S before providing  it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im not upholding        
Miss Ss complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Miss S took out an instalment loan for £150  in October  2013.  The loan was to be repaid  over 
a period of around six months.  Miss S repaid  this loan on time. Lending Stream says it 
agreed to Miss Ss application  after shed provided details of her monthly  income and 
expenditure. It says the information  Miss S provided  on her income and expenditure showed 
that shed be able to comfortably make  the repayments she was committing  to. And in these 
circumstances it was reasonable  to lend. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Miss S and Lending Stream  have said.  The first thing for 
me to say is that this was Miss S first loan with Lending Stream.  So I dont think  there  was 
any established pattern in Miss S borrowing  needs at this stage.
The information provided does suggest that Miss S was asked to provide details of her 
income and expenditure. Bearing in mind the amount  of the monthly repayment, the 
questions Lending  Stream asked  Miss S and this was Miss S first loan, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Lending Stream to rely on the information Miss S was providing.
Ref: DRN40177542I accept that its possible  Miss S actual circumstances werent reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the other information Lending Stream  obtained. But Lending  
Stream could only make its decision based  on the information it had available  at the time. 
And, at this stage of the lending relationship, I dont think proportionate checks  wouldve  
extended into Lending Stream asking Miss S to evidence what  she was declaring.  
Equally I can only uphold a complaint where  I can safely  say a lender  did something wrong. 
And, in this case,  I dont think that Lending Stream did anything  wrong  in deciding to lend to 
Miss S - it carried out proportionate check even though its possible the information it 
mightve been provided with was inaccurate. Lending Stream reasonably  relied on the 
information provided and given the amount of the repayments involved  and Miss S loan 
history, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lending Stream to lend  especially as there 
wasnt anything obvious, in the information  it had, to suggest Miss S wouldnt be able to 
sustainably repay  this loans.
So overall I think the checks Lending Stream carried out were proportionate. As this is the 
case, Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint.  I appreciate this will be very disappointing for      
Miss S. But I hope shell understand  the reasons for my decision and that shell  at least feel 
her concerns  have  been listened to.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4017754