K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Aviva  Insurance Limited  is responsible for poor work and service 
in connection  with a home  emergency insurance policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with consumer complaints against  insurance 
companies and other regulated financial firms. 
Where a complaint  is about a claim under an insurance policy, we deal with it as a complaint 
against the insurance company responsible for dealing  with the claim. In our final decision 
we name  the insurance company but we dont name  anyone else.
Mr and Mrs P live in a house that was built over a hundred  years  ago on the chalk of a 
coastal village.
Mr P had a plumbing and drainage insurance policy. As he shared the home with Mrs P, I 
think its fair to say she also had the benefit  of the policy.
The policy was in the name  of a home assistance company. Aviva was the insurance  
company responsible for dealing  with claims. Where  I refer to Aviva I include the home 
assistance company  and workers insofar as I hold Aviva responsible  for their actions.
In April 2018, Mr and Mrs P called for help with a blocked drain. So he was making a claim 
under the policy.  
After work in June  and July 2018  Mrs P complained  about what  had happened.
By a final response  letter dated 6 September 2018, Aviva  admitted  that it didnt get it right,  
apologised and offered a total of £500.00.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  that 
Aviva had undertaken reasonable steps to make  things right. She said that  as it 
recognised the impact  - the compensation was is in line with what she believed was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the investigators  opinion. They  asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. They  say, in summary,  that:
The Aviva  policy stipulates  the home assistance  company   but it subcontracted the 
work to another sub-contractor.
The first caller didnt identify himself. He had no marked van just a private car. This 
caller said he did not have the tools to be able to carry out the work.
At no time did they receive any documentation  from Aviva to explain what work was 
needed or intended. The only communications  received were  via mobile phone text 
messages about appointments.
The sub-contractor sent two Romanian  men who were  obviously not qualified  to carry 
out the work.
They didn't  use dust sheets on the drive when the channels were  excavated  and 
thereby caused  additional damage  to the tarmac drive which was further damaged  
and subsequently eaten away  by the hard chalk excavation.
Ref: DRN41947252After excavating 19 metres in the lawn and tarmac  drive the men stated that they 
were unable  to locate the blockage  and that they felt the blockage was within drains 
"under the house".
Mrs P asked  them to lift a small slab of concrete close  to the front door and dig out 
the soil beneath  to locate the blockage in the pipe. Within five minutes they found  the 
blockage - a small fistful of hair. This proved that the channels  dug out in the lawn 
and drive were totally unnecessary. Mrs P wife went to the bathroom  and left the bath 
tap running and saw the resultant unblocked channel within one metre of the drain in 
question.
Unblocking a clump  of hair one metre away from the overflowing  drain  did not 
warrant the excavation  of 19 metres of lawn and tarmac drive. It would not be cost- 
effective to send  employees  164.5  miles to unblock a drain.
They then went on to backfill  the trenches using large broken chunks of the original 
earthenware pipes  installed  when the house  was built in 1904.
A Project Manager in charge of works being carried out on an adjacent property 
looked at the backfill  to the trenches and he stated  that "he would  not touch it with a 
barge pole". He then contacted the District Council.
The District Council  inspected the works and it transpired that the regulation requiring 
backfill of sand  and shingle  had not been  adhered to.
During the morning  of the Council's visit, a man arrived and stated that he was going 
to inspect the drains and take photographs  via CCTV equipment. The Council 
advised the man that the work carried out was not to the required  standard and 
would need to be reinstated with the correct materials. The man left without 
inspecting the drains.
The refilling is not safe; the work directly outside  the front door is a mixture of broken 
concrete and a large paving  slab  a hazard to callers/visitors - specifically in the 
dark. The ground is not level.
Mr Ps annual  premium was £280.40.  This was subsequently  increased  to £428.40. 
He cancelled the insurance 
He is at liberty to have  the trench  repaired"  under his Home Insurance  also with 
Aviva. This "repair" work will undoubtedly  also increase the annual cost of his Home  
Insurance.
The whole experience was one of total dissatisfaction at a time when Mrs P was 
recovering from a major operation and, in Mr Ps absence, was unable  to monitor 
what was going on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms provided for excavation of holes for repairs.  It provided for such holes to be 
made level and safe. The policy excluded like- for- like reinstatement of driveways.
From what  Mrs P has said, I think Mr P had had the plumbing and drainage policy  since at 
least November 2016. She has said the home  assistance company applied  a sleeve to part 
of the drain run in May 2017. From my experience, I find it likely that this was an internal 
extruded lining  which  did not involve much if any digging.
She has complained  to us about the durability of that repair.  But theres  no evidence that she 
had made  such a complaint before the final response letter in September 2018.  So Aviva  
Ref: DRN41947253didnt have an opportunity to respond  to such a complaint before Mr and Mrs P brought  it to 
us. For that reason, it wouldnt be fair for me to make any findings  on such  a complaint. 
Keeping in mind  the policy terms, I dont find it unfair or unreasonable that the home 
assistance company  sub-contracted the work in 2018 to a maintenance company from 
outside the region of Mr and Mrs Ps home. 
Mrs P has found something online from an employee of that maintenance company. It 
mentions bartering  with clients  to increase profit. But I dont consider that it sheds much  light 
on what happened at her home in 2018.  
Ive seen a report  of the visit on 12 April 2018  as follows:
12418
Time here 18 00 to 18 25
Unblock drain but backing  up, done  cctv survey while  on site, need  dig and replace
19m off pipe deep  with 1315m deep,  all root ingress along this drain  run with multiple
leaking to ground  and collapses, clay pipe m very bad condition one joint completely
shot and only 20proc  use at this point
Keeping in mind  that there had been drain  problems in 2017, I accept the report as showing 
the need to replace 19 metres of pipe.
Ive seen evidence  of missed appointments. I accept  that this caused  Mrs P to be at home  
when she otherwise might not have been.
Some of the delay was at her request  as she had to have surgery.  So the work was 
delayed until June  2018. 
I havent seen  enough photographic evidence of the condition of the drive before the 
excavation. 
I accept that the workers excavated a trench and put the spoil on the drive  without the use of 
groundsheets. But the policy didnt require Aviva to re-tarmac the trench.  So it was always 
likely that Mr and Mrs P would have to make  other  arrangements to re-tarmac  the trench or 
the whole  drive.
Mrs P later complained that the blockage had been caused by hair in a gully outside the front 
door. But I have found  that there  had been a need  to replace 19 metres of pipe.
Mrs P spoke to a project manager  who was working in the area. He drew  attention  to the use 
of spoil and broken  pipe as infill material. He contacted local building  control.  An officer 
visited and insisted on remedial work  and a retrospective building  regulations  application 
costing £260.00.
Avivas sub-contractor  excavated and re-laid the pipe on a bed of shingle in July 2018.  I 
accept that the need for remedial work  again caused  Mrs P to be at home when she 
otherwise might not have been.
Ref: DRN41947254The photographs afterwards show where the trench had been.  But I havent seen enough 
photographic or other evidence of damage to other areas of the drive. In particular  I havent  
seen enough evidence to show any uneven surface  near the front door.
Overall I accept that there were some missed  appointments and poor workmanship. But I 
dont find that the excavation  was unnecessary. Aviva  didnt  have to re-tarmac the trench. 
And Im not persuaded that it caused damage  to other  parts of the drive. So I dont find it fair 
and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay compensation  for such damage  under the plumbing  
and drainage policy.
Aviva offered £500.00 to cover the Councils  fee of £260.00 and £240.00 by way of 
compensation. Mr and Mrs P have  referred to a payment of £500.00.  So I find it likely  that 
Aviva sent them  that sum shortly after its final response letter in September 2018 and before 
they brought their complaint to us in February  2019.  
I find that Aviva has paid fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs P by the shortcomings Ive found in its response to 
their claim.
Mr Ps policy  was due for renewal in November 2018. He didnt  like the renewal quote of 
£428.00. He didnt pay that and he cancelled the policy. There  was, of course,  no complaint 
about that before the final response in September 2018. So Aviva  didnt have an opportunity  
to respond to it before Mr and Mrs P brought it to us. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
make any findings in respect of such complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 May 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4194725