K820x#14complaint
Ms M says Lloyds Bank  Plc, trading Cheltenham & Gloucester at the time mis-sold her a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
In summary,  I didnt think Lloyds mis-sold the PPI to Ms M for the following reasons:
I think Lloyds made  Ms M aware  she had a choice in taking PPI, and she 
subsequently chose to take it.
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms M. So it had to check the PPI was suitable 
for her, and based  on the information  Ms M had given me about her circumstances  
when this cover was sold, I think that it was.
Lloyds also had to give Ms M enough  information about the PPI so she could decide 
for herself if she wanted to buy the cover. I thought it was possible that the 
information Lloyds  gave Ms M about the PPI might not have been as clear as it 
should have. But I didnt think clearer information wouldve stopped Ms M from 
buying the PPI.
Lloyds didnt respond to my provisional  decision,  so I assumed it doesnt have anything  else 
itd like me to consider.
Ms M responded to the provisional decision with the following main points:
Ms M owns  a property with additional  rooms and if she wasnt  able to pay her 
mortgage, she would have rented these rooms out.
Her family would  have  helped her make repayments  to the mortgage if she wasnt 
able to.
There has not been a shortage of job roles in the field Ms M works  in. And she would 
plan ahead should her job be at risk to ensure that she secured a new position ahead 
of time.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im deciding  not to 
uphold Ms Ms complaint.  And Ill cover  off the main points she has raised below.
I understand Ms M says she would have  rented  out the rooms in her home if she couldnt 
pay the mortgage. But this couldnt  be guaranteed. And the PPI would mean that she 
wouldnt have to do this, if she wasnt able to work through accident, sickness or if she lost 
her job.
Ref: DRN43599682Ms M says she could have relied on the help of her family. But individual  circumstances can 
also change  and Ms Ms family may not have been in a position to help her when needed,  
and the PPI would have  helped her reduce reliance on such  help. So I still think she could 
have found the policy useful if something  were to go wrong.
I appreciate Ms Ms comments  about the field of work she was in and there are no shortages  
of job roles in this area. But PPI, like other  insurances, is designed  to cover the risk of 
something happening that is usually  unforeseen. Ms M couldnt have known for certain when 
she took out her PPI policy  that this was going to be the case  nor is this something that 
could have been foreseen by Lloyds. 
And so it follows that I cant agree that this PPI policy was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision 
complaint
Ms M says Lloyds Bank Plc, trading Cheltenham  & Gloucester  at the time mis-sold her a mortgage 
payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1997. She paid a monthly amount for the policy and it 
would have covered her for up to 12 months per claim  in the event that she couldnt  work through 
accident, sickness or if she lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint.  Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Ms Ms case.
 I currently think the policy  wasnt mis-sold because:
Ms M says she wasnt given  a choice  in taking PPI. Lloyds say it would have made it clear  the PPI 
was optional and it would have got her consent before adding the cover. Where theres a dispute 
Ref: DRN43599683about what happened, I have to base my decision on what I think is most  likely to have happened 
 taking into account all the evidence  thats available.
Given how long ago thats now passed  since the sale, theres very limited information available for 
me to know how the PPI was presented to Ms M. Ive thought very carefully about what Ms M has 
said about the sale, and that she hadnt taken PPI with other  mortgage provider prior to this  but 
I dont necessarily think this means she wasnt given a choice in buying this cover. Or that she 
didnt want it at the time.
Ms M has said she didnt have a choice, but hasnt given me much information  about  why she felt 
like this. And for me to be able to agree with what shes said about  the sale, I think to think  it more 
likely that someone at Lloyds misled Ms M into thinking she had to buy cover   or that someone 
deliberately added  the PPI without her knowing about it. And although I agree this is possible, I 
dont think its more likely.
So based on everything Ive read and been told, I dont think I can fairly say that Lloyds didnt give 
Ms M a choice  or added the cover without her knowledge.
Lloyds say it recommended the PPI to Ms M so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time, I think  that it was. For example she 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and she seems to have had 
a need for the cover.  
Its possible  the information Lloyds gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it 
would have  been  useful  for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable at the 
time. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Ms M has said - including what she has said about being able to find a 
temporary job if she became  unemployed and she had stocks, shares  and savings she could  have 
used. But these points  dont currently change my decision.
I appreciate that Ms M would have tried to find temporary work if she lost her job. But temporary work 
isnt guaranteed and so the PPI could have helped  her make repayments to the mortgage if she 
wasnt working. The PPI would have also helped  her if she couldnt work  through  sickness  I 
understand that Ms M would  have received some sick pay from her employer if she was unwell.  But 
this PPI would have  paid out in addition  to, and for longer  than her sick pay would have  lasted. So I 
still think the PPI could have  been useful.
In addition to this, Ms M said she had savings, stocks  and shares  she could have used to make 
repayments to the mortgage, but this PPI would have paid out on top of these things  and it would  
have meant  that she didnt  have  to use them  to repay her mortgage  and could have used them for 
other important expenses  in what I presume would  be a difficult  time financially.
The value of stocks and shares can and do fluctuate. So the stocks and shares  she had may not have 
held the value  shed  needed  them to at the point in which she might  have needed help. So I still think 
this means the PPI could have provided  a useful benefit to her.
Ive also thought  about  whether Lloyds needs  to give Ms M some of the commission she paid back. 
The Supreme Court  ruling and new rules and guidance dont  apply to certain  types of mortgage 
agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Ms Ms mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  
before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Lloyds  doesnt need to refund  any of the commission Ms M 
paid for the PPI she had with that mortgage.
Ref: DRN43599684my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
I now invite  Ms M and Lloyds  to give me any further information 29 November 2018.
Ref: DRN4359968