K820x#14complaint
Mr H, Mr G and Mrs H (the syndicate) are members of a syndicated Self Investment 
Personal Pension (SIPP).  The syndicate  has complained about @SIPP LIMITED which 
administers the SIPP and manages  a property held within the SIPP.
background
@SIPP manages a rental  property that is owned by the SIPP on behalf  of the syndicate. It 
charges an annual fee for this service.
The syndicate complained to @SIPP in May 2018  about poor service. The syndicate said, in 
summary, that @SIPP had been slow to instruct a surveyor to carry out a rent assessment, 
had provided incorrect  information about the need to serve a notice to quit on the existing 
tenants, and had failed to issue invoices  and collect rent over an extended period.
@SIPP responded and upheld the complaint. It said, in summary:
There had been delay in instructing the surveyor but this hadnt  caused any loss. The 
surveyor didnt recommend any change in the rent and so negotiations  werent  
compromised.
It had provided incorrect information on a possible lease extension and running on 
tacit relocation, and accepted that a notice to quit should not be issued.
A system  error occurred which meant that it stopped generating invoices for rent.
It had a system task to check that rent was being  paid.  However, when the system 
showed an expired lease,  in error,  no tasks  were created  to monitor  the rent and it 
fell under the radar.
It had failed to respond  to confirm that the rent and insurance position was up to 
date.
The tenants hadnt been  invoiced correctly for the insurance.
@SIPP accepted  that its service  and administration had been poor. It noted that there was 
no loss to the syndicate as a result but offered to refund an amount equal to one years 
property management  fee. This was over £700.
The syndicate didnt  accept. It said, in summary,  that the problems had spread over two 
years and it didnt think a property fee should be payable in either. The administration  of the 
SIPP had been  unacceptable. The issues had caused inconvenience  to the syndicate 
members, who had to deal directly with the tenants  and @SIPP had to be pressed for replies  
at almost every stage of the process.  When the arrears were  paid by the tenant they were 
not transferred  in good time to the individual SIPP bank  accounts. So the syndicate wished 
to question the right to charge full administration fees for the two years in question.
The complaint was referred  to this service where  it was considered  by an adjudicator. He 
didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. Thats because he didnt feel the offer to refund 
one years fees was unreasonable. @SIPP had made  errors  but these had been corrected 
and hadnt caused any loss to the syndicate.
The syndicate didnt  agree, it said that the matter  was not just one of financial loss. The 
service was inadequate and a full fee should  not be charged.  A full fee had been charged for 
2016/17 when  the service  was well below  any reasonable  standard. The problems flowed  
from December 2016 when the property  was recorded as being empty in error. This had all 
caused inconvenience to the syndicate.
Ref: DRN48582032As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive summarised what each party has said but Ive read everything. Having done  that, Ive 
reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator and for essentially  the same  reasons.
@SIPP has accepted  that it made mistakes in managing this property for the syndicate. 
There were clearly a number of mistakes, some  of which led to fairly  fundamental failures.  
For example, rent was not invoiced  or collected for an extended period and the system  
@SIPP had in place  for preventing this from happening also failed and was ineffective.
These mistakes clearly caused some inconvenience  to the syndicate.  For example, the 
syndicate had to make enquiries direct with the tenants. However,  there was no direct 
financial loss to the syndicate. Things  were put right.
I do have some sympathy with the syndicate when  it says that these mistakes impacted over 
two years and not just one. It seems to me that problems did begin in the autumn of 2016  
and werent resolved until around May 2018.
However, there was no actual financial loss to the syndicate and the mistakes were 
corrected. So whilst  there was a failure  in service there wasnt, in my view, a total failure. 
Essentially @SIPP  failed to collect the rent on time and was responsible for other failings. 
But in the end the rent was collected  and accounted for and the other errors were put right.  
Ultimately, it did the specific tasks that it was being paid to do, although these  were  not 
completed in good time or to the standard that was reasonably  expected. Essentially, the 
tasks were completed badly and late, rather than not at all. So I dont think  it would be fair to 
say that @SIPP  should refund two years  fees. 
@SIPP has accepted  responsibility for its errors.  Its offered and made  a refund of one 
years property management fee. I think this is a fair and reasonable offer in all the 
circumstances and adequately reflects the inconvenience  caused by its errors. I agree with 
the syndicate that this is predominantly an issue of service and not one of financial  loss. But 
any award I make should reflect actual losses  suffered and/or inconvenience caused. An 
award is not made to punish or fine a business for its mistakes.    
Ref: DRN48582033my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and make no award. Thats because @SIPP Limited has made 
an offer which I consider  to be fair in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H, Mr G and 
Mrs H to accept  or reject  my decision before  17 March 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4858203