K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that PDL Finance Limited  trading as Mr Lender  was inaccurately recording 
his payday loan repayments to credit bureaus. 
background
Mr G took out a payday loan with Mr Lender in December 2013. The loan has been  repaid 
since Mr G brought his complaint to this service  and so I use the past tense for accuracy. 
Mr G said that, reading his credit file, the reporting made it look like the loan was an active  
one, which  incorrectly implied  he was an ongoing customer. He thinks the reporting should  
instead have shown his loan as a closed account.
Mr G said the effect of this was it prevented  him from being  able to arrange any loans 
except on a high interest  rate and only certain lenders. This has caused him trouble and 
upset for which he wishes  to be compensated. 
Mr Lender didnt think it had done  anything wrong.  It said the loan became the subject of a 
repayment plan in February 2014,  so it couldnt be reported as closed when it was still being  
paid off. 
Mr Lender said that when the loan was repaid it would then have been reported as settled. 
But at the time Mr G brought this complaint  to Mr Lender and to this service  the loan was still 
outstanding. 
Mr G has expressed  concern that he did not receive  a final response letter for many  weeks.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Gs complaint in January 2019. He had seen the 
repayment history sent by Mr G and extracts of Mr Gs credit report.  
Mr Lender confirmed that the balance outstanding  on the account at that time was about 
£373 and the repayments were continuing.  Whereas Mr G said that the original  loan was 
£950 in 2013 and, having repaid £968.93 up to the end of December 2019, he did not think 
that there  was an outstanding balance to record.
Taking all this into account, our adjudicator thought that the credit report status and details 
and outstanding balance for the loan had been  correctly reported. So his view was that 
Mr Lender had not done anything wrong.
In reaching this conclusion, he referred  to a goodwill write  off amounting to £448.88 in 
April 2015 following an earlier complaint Mr G had raised with Mr Lender with which this 
service was not involved. 
Ref: DRN43478452After our adjudicators view, Mr G raised a number of additional  points:
the interest due under  the contract and the additional interest suggested that 
Mr Lender had secretly added interest to the debt and so the balances  shown  were  
wrong. He wanted a copy of the original  loan agreement  to check  this;
a repayment  he made  in May 2015  for £13.87 through the third party acting  for him in 
relation to the debt management plan appeared to have been omitted from 
Mr Lenders Statement of Account and he wanted it checked;
on his credit file, the outstanding balance figures  for 2014, 2015 and part of 2016 
remained static at 950  which  was wrong;
and he repeated the fact that he thinks this allegedly  inaccurate reporting 
contravened data protection  principles  and the Financial Conduct Authority 
Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC)  paragraph 7.3.2.
Our adjudicator and Mr G corresponded several times dealing  with all of these points,  and 
these are covered  in my decision below so are not set out here. Our adjudicators  opinion  in 
relation to inaccurate reporting by Mr Lender remained the same.
Mr G informed us recently that the loan has been  repaid. So he says that the outstanding 
matter is the failure to correctly report the alleged  debt to credit  reference agencies and to 
show the repayments that were made  through  the debt management plan from the time they 
commenced.
Mr G has added that he wants  further explanation about the interest added just before he 
entered the debt management plan in February 2014 which was over £400  and then 
removed. 
The complaint remains unresolved and has been  passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.  
amounts owed
I plan to start with the amounts owed as I think that this may help to clarify a few points. The 
copy agreement has been sent to Mr G and I anticipate that he would have had one at the 
beginning of the lending relationship in December 2013, and also when Mr G complained  to 
Mr Lender in 2015. These were all several  years  ago and so its understandable that Mr G 
may not have retained that copy agreement  and it is good to see he has been provided with 
one recently. So Mr G will be able to refer to that agreement when reading this decision. 
I do make  it clear that the complaint in 2015  to Mr Lender was not one this service was 
involved with. This was a complaint which resulted in an offer being  made  (to remove  some 
interest) and so has been resolved. It would neither be appropriate nor fair to Mr Lender  that 
this complaint is, effectively, reopened many  years later as part of this one. So, to be clear,  
my explanations in this decision are not doing that. 
But I think that looking at the written  agreement may assist to clear up a detail which  may go 
towards Mr Gs understanding surrounding  the interest. 
Ref: DRN43478453The terms of the agreement in 2013  were clear  that the principal amount loaned  (£950)  
plus interest of £332 came to a total sum of just over £1,282, repayable on 23 January 2014. 
The statement  of account Mr Lender has provided for us reflects this. 
The agreement terms headed  INTEREST refers to the Rolled-over borrowing  rate and it is 
that term which I think resulted in the additional  sum of just over £448 being  added on 
24 February 2014. This is labelled on the statements  as missed interest. I have not got nor 
have we asked  for any calculations  relating to this sum as it is an historic point which 
I address here to try to assist in Mr Gs understanding.
That additional missed  interest was likely to have  been the months delay between the due 
date and the date that the first repayment of £13.87 was received by Mr Lender  on 
26 February 2014. 
I have looked  at Mr Gs debt management statement of account which has been  sent to us 
by him. It seems  that the first payment paid to the party handling the debt management plan 
(I will call it the DMP handler) must have been around mid-February 2014. This was a short 
time after the loan had been due to be repaid in full. 
That first payment must  have led to the DMP handler sending  it to Mr Lender around 
19 February 2014 which registered  on Mr Lenders  statement for Mr Gs account  on 
26 February 2014. And in fact Mr Lender has described  it this way in its email to us which  
was forwarded  to Mr G on 4 February 2019:  
Regarding the missed  Interest that was applied, as per Mr G's Consumer 
Credit Agreement  if a payment  goes more than a month outstanding  
additional Interest  will be applied. We can confirm this was resolved when 
Mr G raised his complaint  back  in 2015.
So although  I have  not seen any correspondence  or details about the 2015 complaint  as 
I explained , I am not looking  into that here  the offer relating to the removal of interest 
seems very likely to have been this missed interest  sum and likely to have been what  Mr G 
accepted in 2015. 
Mr G seems to be aware of this as he has told us And when I complained in 2015 they then 
removed the 'missing interest' of £448.88 as a 'goodwill gesture'. This fits with the facts 
I have outlined above and has been confirmed by Mr Lender and I say no more about  it. 
That complaint was resolved and closed in 2015.  
Mr G has said that the first I knew about  [Mr Lender] charging interest twice was when our 
adjudicator sent to Mr G his opinion in 2019. I am not able to assist with that  its a closed 
complaint. Mr Gs understanding at the time he accepted the offer from Mr Lender in 2015 is 
a matter between  those parties.  I have used the agreement  and the statements of account to 
seek to explain some of the detail  which  I hope I have now done.
The result of what I can see is that the original interest amount of £332 does appear  to have 
been due and owing (together with the principal  amount f £950) and Mr Lenders statement 
of account shows  that this was the case. Therefore it follows that Mr G had not repaid the 
amount due to Mr Lender and so to show the account as settled or closed would have  
been inaccurate reporting to the credit  bureau. 
Ref: DRN43478454May 2015 payment 
I have taken care in the earlier  paragraphs  to show that there was a gap between  the dates  
when Mr G paid the DMP handler and it paid Mr Lender as I think  that may explain why there 
may have  appeared to have been  a missed payment  in May 2015 when in fact there was 
not. 
Counting all the number  of £13.87 sums  paid to the DMP  handler  between 19 February  2014 
and 28 January 2016 (when the amount  paid altered to £22.93)  it comes to 23. Some were 
double payments of £27.74 which I have included in the count. Cross-referencing this with 
the Mr Lender statement  then the 23 x £13.87 sums were received for the same period (give  
or take a few days). So I think  that the received  payments are correct  in number. 
If Mr G continues to disagree with this point  it is a matter for him to address this with his third 
party debt management  plan provider.
outstanding balance 
Mr G has not sent to us a complete copy of his personal credit  file. I can see extracts of 
some entries from last year. 
Mr G is right that the reporting  needs to be accurate. And from what I have seen I think that it 
was. And the Information Commissioner High Level  Principles also outline that it has to be 
fair. I have explained above in the amounts  owed  paragraph that the loan remained 
outstanding and so Mr Lender  was right to report it in the way it did.  
Mr G has made reference to CONC 7.3. This chapter  more  relates to the treatment  of 
customers who are in default or in arrears and is not one specifically relating to reporting 
requirements to credit  bureau agencies. So its not strictly relevant to this complaint  but 
I have taken it into account.
Mr Gs credit file shows he was in arrears, it was up to date and Mr Lender has accepted  
the repayment plan through the DMP handler  and has been receiving those repayments for 
five years when the original agreement was for repayment after 34 days. 
Mr Gs complaint also extends to the sums  shown  for the outstanding balances in 2014, 
2015 and part of 2016. I understand  Mr Gs concern and he has explained that the core 
reason underpinning this complaint was he did not want other  potential  lenders to see 
inaccurate information about him. I do bear this in mind when addressing Mr Gs points, but 
I have not received any evidence from Mr G of any actual detriment caused by what  he 
considers to be inaccurate reporting.  
Mr Lender has explained  more than once that the credit bureau reporting  would have been  
for the principal outstanding balance only and not the full amount outstanding. It says: 
Backdating Mr Gs credit file and adding  the interest  is not deemed  necessary as it is 
not in line with our reporting processes for this type of loan  
It is understandable  that before the interest element of the loan had been repaid, the credit 
file would reflect the balance as being  950 for 2014, 2015 and some of 2016. 
Ref: DRN43478455Mr Lenders Statement of Account shows that the interest element had been repaid  around 
23 May 2016 and the principal outstanding sum started  to reduce with the further 
repayments from around 23 May 2016.  And the extract I have seen of Mr Gs credit file does 
reflect that the balance reported  dropped  in May 2016. So this was an accurate reflection of 
the position. I also think that it was fair. 
Mr Lender has explained  that to show  the full amount outstanding (including interest) at the 
time, or to amend  the credit file to reflect that now, would be detrimental to Mr G as his 
record would  show larger historic unpaid  balances than it did show. 
I bear in mind that if Mr Gs concern  underpinning this complaint relates  to how prospective  
lenders may view his file then I doubt  that seeing  (for example) in January and 
February 2014 that the balances outstanding were just over £1,342 and £1,791  respectively 
would be of assistance to him. This point  has been  made by Mr Lender and I agree. 
Now that the debt has been  repaid then any amendment would be somewhat academic. 
So for all the reasons  I have outlined above, I do not uphold  Mr Gs complaint. 
additional point
Finally, I note that Mr G is unhappy  that his initial expression of dissatisfaction about this 
issue to Mr Lender in May and again  in June  2018 did not result  in a formal  final response 
letter until after he had referred it to this service. He has sent to us some of the 
correspondence from May and June 2018.  After June 2018 there appears to have been no 
contact between Mr G and Mr Lender  until he brought his complaint  here in December 2018 
(although I can see that Mr Gs complaint form is dated October 2018). 
This is ultimately a question of whether Mr Lender complied with its regulatory complaint  
handling obligations rather than whether it did or didnt do something in relation to the 
provision of financial services  which is what Im tasked with considering here.  
But in any event, Im aware that Mr G did know to refer his complaint  to  this service, so the 
lack of a final response letter hasnt, in my view, caused him any delays in pursuing his 
complaint which, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4347845