K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about an MPPI policy taken out in 2001 when Mr and Mrs M applied for a 
mortgage. They paid a monthly amount for the policy. The policy  was sold to them  during a 
meeting. The mortgage  was in joint names but the MPPI policy  covered Mrs M only. The 
policy was designed  to pay a monthly  benefit if Mrs M could not work due to an accident, 
sickness or unemployment.  
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  Santander disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Santander has told us that its representative  wouldve recommended  the policy to Mr and 
Mrs M. So that means Santander needed to take steps to ensure it was right for them.           
I dont think it was and Ill explain  why.
The policy sold to cover Mrs M excluded sickness claims for, any condition  you had at the 
start date.
When Mrs M first complained to Santander  she explained that when  the policy was sold to 
her she had already  been diagnosed  with two medical conditions. Later, Mrs M told us of a 
third medical condition that she had been diagnosed with in her early twenties. I think Mrs M 
would probably  have considered that one or more of these medical conditions were  the most 
likely reason for her to have time off work in the future. But Mrs M would not have been  able 
to claim for any time off that was due to these medical conditions. So I think the policy  
recommended to Mr and Mrs M was not right for them.
Santander has said that Mr and Mrs M did not mention the third medical condition when they 
originally complained. Santander  also said it wasnt clear who had the medical conditions. 
And Santander has said that Mrs M told this service that she didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  at all at the time of the sale.
Ive thought about all this but in the original complaint to Santander, Mrs M did in fact 
mention that she had been diagnosed with two medical conditions.  So this was not new 
evidence that was brought after bringing the complaint to this service.
Mr and Mrs Ms main  point when they complained to us about the MPPI was that they were 
pressured into taking  it out. So it doesnt surprise me that in completing our questionnaire 
they focussed on this aspect  of their complaint and didnt include details of any medical 
conditions.
Ref: DRN44000672And when  our adjudicator spoke with Mrs M it was quite apparent that the medical  conditions  
affected her and not Mr M.
Santander has said that information on the exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions 
would have been given to Mr and Mrs M. And that any medical conditions that were 
disclosed would have  been discussed  as part of a suitability check.
But Santander recommended the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs M so they were  entitled to rely on its 
professional advice to take out the policy. And I dont think they would have done so if it had 
been pointed out that it wasnt  right for them.
putting things right
Santander UK plc should put Mr and Mrs M in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt 
taken out MPPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  already, and 
Santander UK plc should:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount they paid each month for the MPPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the MPPI  policy, Santander UK plc can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander UK plc to take off tax from this interest.  
Santander UK plc must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off 
if they ask for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay Mr and 
Mrs M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 June 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4400067