K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Miss O holds with Barclays Bank  UK PLC.  Using the 
information Miss O supplied in our complaint  form, her complaint is made  up of the following 
headings:
Barclays account statements are incorrect because they dont show  extra payments 
shes made;
Her account has been debited with illegal charges;
Her complaints,  including  those made  by email to the banks chief  executive officer, 
havent been properly dealt with; and
Barclays ignored the fact that her account was frozen whilst she was complaining.
Miss O also believes an individual savings  account  (ISA) was mis-sold to her. Weve 
explained to her that she can make a separate complaint  about  the ISA; this complaint deals 
solely with the mortgage.
background
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex  and the evidence in 
the case, is immensely detailed, running  to more than 2,500  pages of documents.  Ive read 
everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented,  using my own words. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.  Another reason I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of 
identifying the consumer when my decision is published.
Miss O has had the mortgage since 2004; payments are made by direct  debit from Miss Os 
current account, which she holds  with Bank M. Between  2015 and 2017, the direct debit 
was refused on several occasions; each time this happened, it showed on Miss Os 
mortgage account as a credit followed by a corresponding debit. Miss O made a number of 
manual payments to make up, but Barclays began to send arrears  letters  and apply charges. 
Miss O complained at the local branch, saying that she could prove not just that shed made  
all the payments, and that shed actually made overpayments that Barclays had put in a 
holding account.
The complaint didnt progress; Miss O says she was asked to produce evidence of her 
payment record that shed  already  provided  more than once. In January 2018, Miss O began  
emailing Barclays chief executive to try and move her complaint forward.  It was then 
formally acknowledged and in March 2018,  Barclays issued a final response, largely 
rejecting the complaint and suggesting  Miss O pursue  a claim against Bank M under the 
direct debit guarantee if she thought  any money  was unaccounted  for. It paid Miss O £150  
compensation for the distress  and adverse impact the complaint had had on her health.
Ref: DRN44153932That letter gave Miss O six months  to refer her complaint to us. She did so in August 2018,  
but by then Barclays had decided to remove the temporary hold it had put on recovery action 
whilst it dealt with the complaint.  Miss O said this was harassment.  Barclays  has held 
recovery action again whilst weve been  looking at the complaint.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint; for the most part, he didnt recommend it 
should be upheld.  Having cross-referenced the mortgage  records  with those from Bank M, 
he wasnt persuaded any payments were unaccounted for by Barclays  or that its account  
statements were incorrect  He also explained  to Miss O why he thought  she hadnt made 
enough manual payments to cover  all of the returned direct debits. He agreed that Barclays 
had been slow to log her complaint when she first made it, but thought Barclays had dealt 
fairly with that when  it paid her £150  compensation.
He went on to explain that mortgage accounts arent  frozen  when a complaint is made; 
payments are still due as normal, and if not paid,  then a lender is entitled to write reminding 
the borrower of the missed payments. He didnt  think Barclays  had harassed Miss O. The 
investigator also explained that arrears  charges are allowed for in the mortgage  contract, but 
he identified a number  that he thought Barclays should refund in the interests of fairness. 
Both sides objected to his findings,  to varying  degrees. Barclays was in broad agreement, 
but said that some of the charges hed said should refunded need not be. The investigator 
revisited this point and agreed with the bank; he issued a revised view saying that only one 
charge, an £8 fee for a returned  direct debit in January 2016  needed  to be refunded. In all 
other respects, his view of the complaint was as before. Miss O rejected the investigators 
findings in their entirety, and asked that her complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But Ill make  some general observations 
before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Lenders generally do put recovery action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they 
dont have to and we cant force them to. For the Financial Ombudsman Service  to have that 
power would  seriously undermine  our impartiality between the parties  to a complaint. It 
would also create  the potential  risk of consumers abusing our service by making complaints  
with the intention to obstruct  businesses that were trying to take legitimate  action  to recover 
money owed to them. Ill make more  specific comments in due course,  when I deal with the 
point about the mortgage account being  frozen.
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  our investigations and reach  our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Miss O has told us she suffers  from a number of health problems; I wont reveal  the details 
here, out of respect for her privacy, but Ive kept that in mind  throughout my review  of her 
complaint. On a number  of occasions,  shes asked  for us to intercede on her behalf in her 
dealings with Barclays. Its possible Miss O would benefit from having  someone assist her - 
Ref: DRN44153933for example, her local Citizens Advice  Bureau  - but Im afraid we cant do that for her, as 
that would  interfere with our independence.
Im aware Miss O has complained about  how the investigator handled her complaint. The 
investigators manager has dealt with that as a separate matter,  and if Miss O wishes to 
pursue that further with the Independent  Assessor, shes been advised how she can do that. 
My focus here is on the underlying dispute  between her and Barclays, but I will make one 
general comment in response  to something Miss O said about  the investigators use of the 
evidence. 
Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it. Its also our judgement to 
make on when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion.  I now turn to the 
substance of the complaint, starting  with the record of payments.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service doesnt  provide an auditing or account checking service.  
But we can, and do, look to see if there  are obvious discrepancies between the payments a 
business says it has received  and the borrower  says they have made.  Ive done that here,  
and like the investigator, Im not persuaded Miss O has paid money to Barclays  that it has 
failed to account for correctly. 
Nor am I persuaded  Miss O had made up all of the payments that were  missed due to 
unpaid direct debits.  However,  strongly Miss O might think  otherwise, a fair analysis of the 
available evidence just doesnt point to that having  happened. That being the case, Barclays  
was always reasonably entitled to treat the mortgage as being in arrears, and take fair steps 
to deal with that situation. It was also allowed to apply fees and charges  to cover the extra  
cost of recovering the overdue  payments.  
Miss O says the charges are illegal,  but theyre  actually  provided for in the mortgage 
contract. In any event,  whether  something is legal or not can only be tested in court.  My role, 
having due regard for the law where relevant, is to decide if something is fair and 
reasonable. Ive done that here, and Ive come  to the same conclusion the investigator did in 
his revised view. The fees and charges Barclays added  to Miss Os mortgage were applied  
fairly, with one exception   the £8 fee for a returned direct debit from January 2016  - which 
should be refunded. 
But superseding all of the above is the near complete absence of any monthly payments on 
the mortgage since November 2017.  Barclays records  show Miss O had made only one 
payment since November 2017; that was in July 2018. When Im determining  a complaint, I 
dont just have  to decide if a business  has made a mistake; I also have to decide  if the 
consumer is now in a worse position because  of that mistake. Other  than the charge Ive 
identified as having been unfairly applied, Ive not found that Barclays has made  mistakes  in 
its handling of Miss Os account. But even  if I had, those mistakes  arent  the reason Miss O 
is now facing the potential loss of her home.  
Rather, its because Miss O is contractually obliged to make monthly payments to the 
mortgage and stopped  doing so when her complaint was logged  in January 2018. If Miss O 
thought she didnt have to pay her mortgage  whilst her complaint was being  looked into, then 
without wishing to sound unkind,  Im afraid she has rather mis-directed herself. As I said 
earlier, a business  can choose to (but does not have to) hold recovery action during a 
complaint, but the account itself is not frozen and borrowers are still expected  to make their 
regular payments. Withholding payments that are required  under the terms of a contract is 
Ref: DRN44153934never a good  idea.  Whatever frustration Miss O may have felt, not making  payments  if she 
was able to could only ever make  things worse, not better.
One of the fundamental  principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has 
the right to enforce its security to recover money  owed to it. It would be entirely inequitable 
and inappropriate  for me to remove that right from Barclays in a final decision on Miss Os 
complaint, regardless  of her wider  situation.  If court action is imminent,  that may well be 
unwelcome to Miss O but in all the circumstances I cant say its unfair. 
When the case comes to court, Barclays will have  to persuade  the court  that granting a 
possession order would  be appropriate. It will also have to satisfy the court  that it has met its 
obligations under  the pre-action protocol. Miss O should have the opportunity  to make her 
own representations to the court, including telling  it of her health  problems, before  it makes a 
decision on what should happen. It wouldnt be right for me to pre-empt  that process here.
That leaves the delay on Barclays part in logging a complaint and dealing with it in a timely  
fashion. I dont  have to decide  if it got things wrong; its admitted as much  and paid Miss O 
compensation for its shortcomings. All there  is for me to decide is if the compensation (£150) 
was enough, and in the circumstances, I think it was. The delay was clearly frustrating for 
Miss O but it hasnt ultimately prevented her from getting a response to her complaint and 
then having that response  considered independently  by this service.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
the outcome.  I can see from her submissions the determination  with which  Miss O has 
brought the complaint. She sees error or wrong-doing in almost everything  the bank has 
done (or not done). Thats  a natural, subjective  reaction,  and entirely understandable. 
Its also natural to emphasise individual statements or comments  that appear to support a 
particular view point, whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the 
opposite viewpoint.  But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies and/or 
anomalies in what  both sides have said and done from time to time. Be that as it may,  I have  
to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have  to look at things objectively,  sometimes  
taking a step back and focussing  on the broader picture. Thats  what  Ive done.  Having  done  
so, I cant find in Miss Os favour, however  much  shed  like me to.
Miss O doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if she doesnt, then neither she nor 
Barclays will be bound by my final decision. Subject  to any time limits or other restrictions  a 
court might impose, Miss Os right to take legal  action  against Barclays over the subject 
matter of this complaint  wont  have been prejudiced by our consideration of the complaint. 
She wouldnt necessarily have to initiate court proceedings  of her own to do that. As I said 
earlier, if and when  Barclays resumes possession proceedings, Miss O can, if she wishes, 
ask the court  to consider all of the arguments  shes presented here as part of her defence.
Ref: DRN44153935my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that, with one exception,  I reject the main  
thrust of this complaint.  The exception is the fee of £8 for a returned direct  debit from 
January 2016  which  I order  Barclays to refund, back-dated for interest purposes. I make  no 
other order or award.  
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under  the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept or reject my 
decision before  15 June 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4415393