K820x#14complaint
Mr M1 has complained that Highway Insurance Company Limited didnt pay a fair market 
value for his car when he made  a theft claim under his car insurance  policy.  
Mr M1s  son, Mr M2 is representing him in his complaint.
background
Mr M1 bought a specialist  car insurance policy through a broker which he renewed in July 
2017. The underwriter  of the policy was Highway. Mr M1s car was a classic car and he gave 
an estimated valuation for it of £3,000. 
Unfortunately in October 2017 Mr M1s car was stolen and he reported it to Highway. 
Highway said it would  settle Mr M1s  claim by paying him a total loss settlement of £5,500.  
Mr M2 didnt  agree and complained to Highway. He said his father had carried out 
restorative work to the car since 2015 and believed it was worth around £16,000. He 
provided invoices  and photos  to support his view. 
But Highway didnt  increase the settlement sum.  It said the information Mr M2 provided was 
limited and didnt  show that Mr M1s car was in the condition he said it was in just before  it 
was stolen. 
Our investigator looked at the available  classic  car guides and the evidence  Mr M2 provided 
to show the work that had been  done to the car. He thought Highway had reached its 
valuation reasonably. 
Mr M2 didnt  agree. He said we havent  taken  into account the expenses incurred to restore 
the car and the value of it as a result. So the case has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
We dont decide  a valuation. But we look at whether  an insurer has reached  its valuation in a 
reasonable way and in line with the policy. 
Mr M1s  specialist insurance policy says the most  it will pay in the event of a claim is the 
market value of his car at the time of loss. 
Usually an insurer will rely on the main  motor trade guides to decide a fair valuation. They 
provide an average  figure based on likely selling prices for the same make, model,  condition  
and mileage for the car for the month of loss. But because Mr M1s car was a classic car, the 
main guides  werent  able to provide a valuation. 
Ref: DRN44882052Highway looked  at classic  car guides and adverts  for similar cars. Mr M1 provided adverts 
for cars too. These adverts were for cars that were  in showroom or very good condition,  with 
a full service history and photos showing the condition of the car. So Mr M1s examples were  
advertised for much more than the valuation Highway had given.
The date of the last MOT for Mr M1s car was in July 2016. Mr M1 said that he hadnt taken 
his car for an MOT  in July 2017 as he was still restoring it. So his car didnt have a valid 
MOT when it was stolen.  The previous MOT highlighted advisories of corrosion in several 
areas of the car. 
Highway asked Mr M1 to provide evidence of the restorative work  hed done to the car. It 
said if Mr M1 could  show that the car was in the condition he described, Highway would 
reconsider the valuation  it gave.
Mr M2 provided some  invoices  for work carried out in 2016  and 2017  for mainly cosmetic  
work. But he wasnt able to provide any receipts  or any other evidence to show the work he 
said had been  done to the car. He said the other invoices were  probably in the glove box. 
Mr M2 said he contacted the garages  that carried out the work but unfortunately they didnt 
have copies of the invoices and receipts  Mr M1 needed. But Mr M2 said a mechanic was 
happy to speak to Highway  to describe the condition of the car. 
Highway said it wouldnt consider this as suitable  evidence to consider increasing  its 
valuation. Mr M1 had two photos  of the outside of the car which he took in August 2015. 
Mr M2 confirmed  that the car was kept outside.  So Highways engineer considered  the 
impact this would  have had on existing corrosion  highlighted  in 2016. 
Highway took all of the information available into account when it decided  its valuation of 
£5,500 for the car.
We looked at two classic  car guides  for the make of Mr M1s car. Our investigator  also spoke 
to one of the main  motor trade  guides and was advised that the higher than average mileage 
Mr M1s  car had travelled would have had an impact on its value compared to other  similar 
cars.
The classic car guides categorise the condition of a car into three: Condition 1 is described  
as either  showroom condition or extremely good.  Condition 2 is described as good condition 
with a legitimate  MOT and on the road and Condition  3 is for cars in need of work,  usually  
major.
Based on the evidence  available, I think it reasonable to say that Mr M1s car fits more 
closely to condition 3. I appreciate Mr M2 doesnt  agree  with this. But I havent seen anything 
to show me the condition  of Mr M1s  car immediately prior to the theft fitted condition  2 or 1. 
The August  2017 guides ranged between £6,000 and £7,000 for condition  2  and £2,000 
and £3,000 for condition 3. So Highways  valuation sits between  condition 3 and 2. 
The specialist car guide had three adverts but these were for cars described as in near 
perfect or excellent condition. The adverts  ranged between £7,250 and £13,950 and with 
lower mileage. As there isnt any evidence that Mr M1s car was in a similar condition,  I dont 
think its fair to rely on these examples.
So I think Highways valuation of £5,500 is within the range of reasonable. 
Ref: DRN44882053I understand Mr M1 and Mr M2 will be disappointed  with my decision.  But there isnt enough 
to persuade me that Highway  hasnt  fairly  considered  everything  when it decided a valuation  
for Mr M1s car. So I dont think it needs  to do any more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M1 and Mr M2 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 October  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4488205