K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  policy  taken out in 2004 
Mr and Mrs W say that Santander UK Plc mis-sold  them  the MPPI.
background
Ive previously issued  a provisional decision  on Mr and Mrs Ws complaint explaining that 
Id come to a different  outcome to our adjudicator.
The details of this complaint and my provisional findings can be found  in my provisional 
decision which Ive attached below and forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative confirmed that my provisional decision had been received 
but didnt raise any objections or new points for me to consider  so I see no reason  to 
depart from my provisional findings.
my decision
I dont uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, so Santander doesnt need to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs W paid for the MPPI. 
But Santander has already offered to give Mr and Mrs W back  some of the cost of the 
MPPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  by 27 December 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN48375082provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy taken out in 2009 
when taking some extra borrowing on their mortgage. Mr and Mrs W say that Santander  UK Plc mis-
sold them the policy.
The policy only covered Mr W.
background
When this service first looked at the complaint, our adjudicator thought that it should be 
upheld. Santander challenged  this, so the complaint  has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what  is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided the MPPI  wasnt mis-sold.  I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs W, so Ill 
explain the reasons for this below.
Mr and Mrs W say that the MPPI policy was automatically  included. 
When our adjudicator looked at Mr and Mrs Ws compliant, they felt that it should be upheld. In broad  
terms they said that Santander hadnt done  enough to show that the MPPI  was an optional product  or 
given Mr and Mrs W a choice in taking out the policy.
Santander disagreed with this  it said that although  it didnt have the paperwork from the time Mr 
and Mrs W applied for their mortgage and MPPI policy, it did have a copy of a letter  that was sent to 
Mr W shortly after the MPPI policy had been set up.
Santander has provided a copy of a letter that was sent to Mr W in February 2009.  The letter  is 
correctly addressed. I can see that this letter thanks Mr W for choosing to take out MPPI  and asks 
him to check over his details in the enclosed schedule. I can see that Mr and Mrs W made  contact 
with the underwriter of the policy shortly after the letter was sent to advise that Mr Ws name was 
spelt incorrectly and asked for it to be amended. 
Its not unusual for a business not to be able to provide  paperwork from an event that took place so 
long ago  and businesses arent required to keep records  indefinitely. From Mr and Mrs Ws 
submissions, they dont  recall much from the sale either, but this isnt surprising as 10 years has 
passed since.  So, I have to base my decision  on the information  I do have,  and having  done so, I 
think its more  likely  that Mr and Mrs W were given  a choice in taking out the MPPI.
Santander recommended the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs W, so it had to check that the MPPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example, Mr W wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the MPPI cover and they seem 
to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs W about  the MPPI  wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But as I think they chose to take it out - it looks  like they wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems  like it would have been useful for them if something  went wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable. So, I dont think  better information about  the MPPI would have put them off taking 
out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs W have said - but these points dont change  my 
Ref: DRN48375083decision, and I currently dont plan on upholding  the complaint.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs W have said, but these  points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold. So, Santander doesnt need to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs W paid for it. But Santander  has already offered to give Mr and Mrs W back some of the 
cost of the MPPI. I dont  think it needs to do anything more. 
I understand Santander  has already paid this to Mr and Mrs W.
my provisional  decision
I dont currently plan to uphold  this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W, and Santander UK Plc can provide  anything further for me to consider by 
15 November 2019 after which Ill issue my final decision.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4837508