K822xcomplaint
Ks complaint is that Lloyds Bank plc has debited its account for a payment which  has not 
been made to the intended recipient. As a result the intended recipient didnt provide K with 
the service it had requested  entry to a motor race. K is a company, and the complaint has 
been brought on its behalf by its director, Mr B.    
background 
K made a credit card payment of €4,000 to a business in France  for participation in a motor
racing event. After conversion, that equated  to £3,552.98. However, when Mr B looked at Ks
bank statement, he initially didnt recognise the payment. He contacted Lloyds, which
placed a temporary  credit  on Ks account  while it looked into the matter, through the card
scheme.
A few weeks  later Mr B was contacted by the intended recipient of the money, which  said the
payment had been recalled because of fraud concerns. Mr B realised he had made  a
mistake and contacted  Lloyds again. Lloyds re-debited Ks account  and released the
payment to the merchant in France.
The merchant said however that it didnt  receive  the payment and it refused entry to the
race. Mr B contacted Lloyds again and said that, since the merchant  hadnt  received
payment, it should reimburse K. Lloyds said however that it hadnt  received any money back
from the merchant; the merchants bank would only have sent the money back  if it had
received an indemnity from Lloyds, and none  had been requested  or given. It refused to
reimburse K.
Mr B, on behalf of K, complained to this service, and one of our investigators considered its
complaint. He thought that Lloyds  should have done more  to investigate what had happened
to the payment and, if necessary, take steps  to recover  it. The bank didnt accept that view,
however, and asked  that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that but reached a different conclusion from that reached by the investigator. I noted 
that the initial payment had been correctly credited to the merchants account. It didnt 
appear however  that it had been returned  to Lloyds  when  Mr B first queried it. Rather, it had 
been put on hold; it had been released when  Mr B had identified  it as genuine. I thought it 
more likely than not Lloyds had made the payment and that it was either with the merchant 
or with its own bankers   in the form of an electronic credit.  
Mr B, on behalf of K, responded to my provisional  decision. He clarified that the complaint 
wasnt that Lloyds  hadnt tried to recall a payment that wasnt  completed (as I had defined  it); 
it was that the payment hadnt been  made but had nevertheless  been  debited to Ks 
account. When hed queried the payment, Lloyds had initially  refunded it and debited  the 
amount from the merchant.
Mr B considered that what was in dispute  was whether, when Lloyds re-debited Ks account, 
it re-credited the merchants account. Put another way, he thought  the issue  was whether 
Lloyds ever made the payment  to the merchant.  He said that the retailer  was adamant that it 
hadnt received  any payment, and so refused  Ks race application. 
Ref: DRN44135712my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I broadly agree with Mr Bs characterisation of the issues  in dispute here. Lloyds says that it 
made the payment in line with Ks instruction, but the merchant  says it didnt receive  that 
payment. And if Lloyds  didnt make the payment, it has no right to debit Ks account.  
I said in my provisional decision that Lloyds hadnt made a second payment. Mr B says that 
it should have  done, since the first payment was recalled. That doesnt mean however that 
the payment was returned to Lloyds,  and I dont believe  it was. It was, in effect,  put on hold 
while it was investigated.  In the meantime,  the merchants own bank debited its account and 
Lloyds temporarily re-credited Ks account. 
A payment of this type would generally only be reversed permanently if the paying bank 
(here, Lloyds) indemnified  the payees bank  against claims from its own customer; if that 
were not the case, the receiving bank would bear the risk of false  claims from the payer,  with 
which it has no relationship. There is no suggestion of that here, of course. Theres  no 
evidence that any indemnity was given, however, and I think that shows that the money 
wasnt returned to Lloyds. Thats why no second  payment was ever made.  
So the issue  here is what happened  to the first (and only) payment. It was clearly properly 
made in the first place. The merchant, in an email  of 19 July 2018,  confirmed receipt  of it on 
21 December 2017; in the same  email it said that it had been debited from its account on 16 
February 2018. I should mention that that is consistent with what Lloyds said happened.  It 
appears too that in an email a few days earlier the merchant had said it never  charged  Cs 
credit card as the payment had been refused for fraud in December 2017. That wasnt 
however quite right; the correct position was set out in its later email, and its possible this 
has added  to the confusion.   
Mr B says however that, when the payment was later identified  as genuine, Lloyds re-
debited Ks account  but didnt re-credit the merchants account.  For the reasons  Ive 
explained, there was no basis on which to make  a second payment; the payment hadnt 
been returned. So it wasnt for Lloyds  to re-credit the merchants account, and indeed  it had 
no means of doing  so; all it could do was to end its challenge to the payment when K 
confirmed it had been genuine after all. 
As I indicated in my provisional decision,  Mr B has my sympathy. But Im satisfied that 
Lloyds made  the payment in line with Ks instructions; those instructions were clearly  
accurate, since the payment was initially successful.  But I dont believe the payment was 
returned to Lloyds. It was held while Mr Bs enquiry was investigated,  and in the meantime 
the accounts of K and the merchant were adjusted temporarily. When the enquiry was 
dropped (because  Mr B recognised the payment) Lloyds dropped  the retrieval  process.  At 
that point the merchants  account should have  been re-credited; if it wasnt,  that wasnt 
because of anything  Lloyds did or did not do 
I remain of the view therefore that its for K to resolve this with the merchant  although it 
may also be that the merchant can resolve it with its own bank. But I dont believe that 
Lloyds can realistically  be expected to do any more than it has.     
Ref: DRN44135713my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank plc to do anything more  to resolve Ks 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask K 
(through Mr B) to accept  or reject  my decision before 30 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4413571