K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about the way The Royal London  Mutual Insurance  Society Limited  (Royal 
London) settled his critical  illness insurance  claim.
background
Mr D applied for life insurance with critical illness cover in April 2008. The application was 
accepted and started on the same day. Unfortunately, in 2018  he had cause to make  a claim 
following a heart  attack. 
To help its assessment of the claim Royal London  asked for information from Mr D, his GP 
and the medical  specialists  who treated him. After reviewing the evidence received, 
Royal London felt relevant  information had been omitted when Mr D first applied  for his 
insurance. In particular: 
A family history of heart  disease and diabetes
Mr Ds high blood pressure
Mr Ds impaired glucose tolerance
Mr Ds raised  cholesterol levels
Mr Ds outstanding tests
Royal London advised that had it known about  the family history  and impaired glucose  
tolerance it would have charged Mr D a higher  premium for his critical illness and total 
permanent disability cover, at a rate of +100%. It felt this information was a careless  
misrepresentation rather than deliberate, and so it re-calculated  Mr Ds sum assured  on this 
basis.
Mr D didnt think this was fair, so he complained. But Royal London  didnt uphold  his 
complaint. So, Mr D brought  his concerns to our service. Mr D told us:
Royal London was given full access to his medical file before he signed for the policy. 
That he declared his family history  to his financial advisor when he took out the 
policy, but this wasnt  reflected  in the letter he was sent by Royal  London. 
Up until he started  taking medication for high blood pressure  in 2014, he was not told 
he had a condition  - just to manage his diet and exercise. 
Our investigator partially upheld his complaint. They felt there was misrepresentation in 
relation to Mr Ds family history but noted  this shouldnt have changed Mr Ds premium. 
They also didnt think Royal Londons questions  about blood  pressure, cholesterol or blood 
sugar levels were clear enough.  So, they asked Royal  London to settle  the claim taking into 
consideration the family history  alone.  But Royal London didnt agree so the matter  has been  
passed to me to decide.  
Royal London told us it wasnt  fair to apply The Consumer  Insurance  (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA) standards about the clarity  of questions to an 
application from several years earlier. It also felt the questions asked of Mr D were  
sufficiently clear.
Having reviewed the evidence, I felt it was likely  Id reach a slightly different decision than 
the investigator. So, I shared my provisional decision with Royal London and Mr D, so both 
had the opportunity to make any comments or provide further evidence. Both accepted my 
provisional findings, so Im not persuaded to change  my mind.
Ref: DRN41284432my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should emphasise that while Ive taken note of all the arguments and comments made,  Ive 
limited my response to the issues I consider  to be central to this complaint.
I agree  with Royal London that this policy was taken  out before the introduction of CIDRA. 
So, I havent considered it as part of this decision.  Instead, Ive taken into account  the 
appropriate industry guidance  that was in place  at the time Royal  London made their 
decision. This is called,  Misrepresentation and Treating Customers  Fairly  ABI Code of 
Practice Managing  Claims For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income 
Protection Insurance Products April 2013.  I will refer to this as the code.
The code states insurers should consider all of the circumstances when assessing a claim, 
including the clarity  of the questions asked at application and whether an intermediary was 
involved. And for an insurer to settle  the claim proportionately, the code says the 
misrepresentation/s should  have resulted in a different underwriting outcome  ie. further tests, 
postponement or a higher premium.
was there  misrepresentation?
Although Royal London  was given  permission to access Mr Ds medical  records at the point 
of application,  it didnt. Its normal practice  for insurers to rely on the information given at the 
point of application and I think this is reasonable - I would only expect it to request medical 
records if this was needed by the underwriters to assess the application.  And given the 
answers Mr D gave,  I dont think Royal London had any reason to request this. 
So, Royal London  didnt  have information about Mr Ds outstanding tests, impaired glucose 
tolerance, raised cholesterol levels, high blood pressure or his family history of diabetes  and 
heart disease. And it thinks it should  have been  told about all of these things.
But Royal London  have  only suggested that Mr Ds high blood  pressure  and his family 
history of diabetes and heart disease would have increased the premium. Whilst I appreciate 
Royal London may have requested more information had it known  about  the other issues,  
Ive seen no evidence  it would have ultimately  changed the underwriting  decision. So, I dont 
intend to comment  on these matters any further, as I dont think its relevant to Mr Ds 
complaint. 
Ive seen screenshots of the policy application which show  there were relevant questions  
about the other issues. But, when Mr D applied  for the policy,  he used a financial advisor. 
So, I dont know how these questions were relayed to Mr D nor whether  all the information  
Mr D gave was added  to the form. And I note that Mr D has said he told his financial advisor  
about his family history  of heart disease,  despite  this not being added  to the application.  
So, I dont think it would  be fair to simply look at the applications questions  when assessing 
whether Mr D took reasonable care here. 
Given this, Ive looked at the information Royal London sent Mr D at the start of the policy,  
summarising the information  given in his application. The letter  Mr D was sent clearly asked 
him to check  the accuracy of the information included before signing a declaration  and the 
consequences if he didnt  do so. So, I think Mr D should  have  done  this. 
Ref: DRN41284433As an aside   Im aware Mr D says he wasnt certain about the exact details of his entire  
familys medical history ie. dates of diagnosis etc. but Im satisfied he was aware  of relevant 
family history of both heart disease  and diabetes.
The questions about Mr Ds family history and his given  answers  appeared as follows:
And I think its clear from the order of the questions and the wording that these sections are 
linked. I also note that the second box says further  conditions can be selected from the list. 
But no further conditions  are mentioned or included in the form. And having read this, I think  
Mr D should have realised  that his family history of diabetes and heart disease hadnt been 
listed. I also think its clear  from the wording of the first question  that it should  have been. 
So, whilst I appreciate Mr D didnt see the original list with the drop downs, Im satisfied he 
was sent a copy of this form.  And the form identifies  more conditions can and should be 
listed. So, Im satisfied  Mr D failed to take reasonable  care not to make a misrepresentation 
here.
Ive then looked at the questions asked surrounding  blood pressure and glucose tolerance. 
I can see Mr D answered  no to the following two questions:
Any disorder or disease of the heart, circulatory problems, chest pains or high blood 
pressure?
Diabetes or raised blood sugar levels?
Mr D told us that whilst he was told to watch his diet to keep his sugar levels  and blood  
pressure healthy,  he did not consider himself diagnosed with any medical concern until he 
was prescribed medication  for his blood  pressure several years later. 
Royal London suggested Mr D was diagnosed  with essential hypertension (high blood 
pressure) in March 2008. But having  reviewed the evidence  its provided, I cant  see 
evidence of this diagnosis until July 2008,  after the policy was taken out. And whilst Mr D 
had a high blood pressure  reading  in March 2008  before he took out his policy,  I dont  think  
the average consumer  would  consider this is the same as having high blood pressure. 
The question on the form isnt very specific and doesnt include timescales. So, I can see 
why Mr D wouldnt necessarily have thought the answer to this was yes and I dont think  
this is unreasonable.  I appreciate that the full question asked on the application was do you 
have, or have you ever had. But this detail wasnt included on the letter  Mr D was sent. 
And Mr Ds account suggests he wasnt aware  the question was this broad.  Royal  London 
told us its questions were clear and whether Mr D was given this information is a matter 
between him and his financial advisor.  But what Mr D was specifically asked  is relevant  to 
whether he took reasonable  care not to make a misrepresentation. And on the evidence  
available to me, I cant say he made a misrepresentation  in relation to his blood pressure.
But I can see from Mr Ds GP notes  that he was formally diagnosed with impaired  glucose  
tolerance in 2004.  And this is a form of raised  blood  sugar levels. Whilst I appreciate  Mr D 
was advised to manage this with diet and exercise, his GP notes are clear that this is a 
diagnosis. So, I think Mr D knew he had raised  blood sugar levels.  Whilst I appreciate this 
question is no more  specific than the one he was asked about his blood pressure, I think  
someone who was formally  diagnosed with raised  blood sugar levels  ought to have known  to 
answer yes to this question without it needing  to be any more specific. And if he was at all 
Ref: DRN41284434unsure, Mr D could have asked. But theres  no evidence  of this. For these reasons, I think  
Mr D failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation in relation to his raised 
blood sugar levels. 
recalculation of sum assured
Royal London felt the misrepresentations were  careless as opposed to deliberate or 
reckless. I think thats fair in the circumstances. So, it recalculated Mr Ds sum assured 
based on the premiums  it would  have  charged had it known this information. This approach 
is in line with what Id expect an insurer to do where  it believed there was a careless  
misrepresentation. And so, I think this is reasonable. But I dont think Royal  Londons re-
calculations were fair, because I dont  think all of the misrepresentations would have resulted 
in a different underwriting decision.
Ive reviewed the relevant underwriting criteria Royal London sent us. And having done so, I 
can see that the family history of diabetes and impaired  glucose tolerance are considered 
jointly. And Im satisfied that the impaired glucose  information would have increased Mr Ds 
critical illness premiums  by +50%.  But Im not satisfied that Mr Ds family history of diabetes  
alone would  have impacted his premiums. As the evidence indicates he had only one 
relative who was diagnosed  with type II diabetes before  the age of 60. So, whilst I can see 
this didnt ultimately change Royal Londons  calculations, I dont think  this would have 
changed its underwriting decision  and I dont think it should have been considered.
Similarly, having reviewed the underwriting guidance provided, given Mr Ds age at the time 
he applied  for the insurance (46), I dont think his family history  of heart disease would have 
impacted his critical illness premium. So, I dont  think its fair of Royal  London to add a 
further weighting  because of this.
However, the evidence  does  show that had Royal London known about this history of heart 
disease, its likely it would  have  asked for Mr Ds GP records,  including  information on his 
blood pressure.  And Im satisfied on the information Ive seen that Mr Ds blood pressure 
levels would have increased his critical illness premiums by +25%. So, whilst I dont think  
Mr D made  a misrepresentation  about his blood  pressure, I think  that had he not made the 
misrepresentation of his family history  of heart  disease, its likely Royal  London would have 
got more information about  this and raised  his premium as a result.
So, after taking all of the above into account,  I think  this information would have impacted 
the premium but by a weighting of +75% and not +100%  as Royal  London suggested. 
Given this, I dont think the proposed settlement offered by Royal London  is fair. And I think it 
should recalculate his critical illness sum assured, removing  any weighting added  for the 
family history of heart  disease and diabetes.  I think Royal  London should then pay Mr D the 
difference between  this sum and the payment they have already made. I also think it should 
pay Mr D 8% simple  interest on the additional  amount, from the date the amount was 
payable until the date it makes the settlement.
I also think Royal London should pay Mr D £150 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused by the delay  in this payment.
my final decision
For the reasons  I've given,  I uphold this complaint and direct The Royal  London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited  to:
Ref: DRN41284435Recalculate Mr Ds critical illness sum assured,  removing any weighting  added for 
family history of heart  disease and diabetes.
Pay Mr D £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused by the delayed payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Jade Cunningham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4128443