K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about a claim he made on his Unum Ltd dental insurance policy.
He says that Unum  gave  him incorrect information  which led to him incurring a loss.
background
Mr B has the benefit of an Unum dental insurance policy. The policy provides up to £2,500  
worth of cover in any policy year. 
Mr B says that in August  2018 he called Unum to find out how much  was remaining on his 
policy limit that year.  He says Unum  led him to believe he had enough to cover  dental 
treatment he was proposing to have. In reliance on this, Mr B says he went ahead and 
incurred £1,500 worth of dental costs, but when he put in a claim Unum  only paid £50 
towards this.
Unum say that this was the amount remaining on Mr Bs policy limit for that year.  And whilst 
theyve tried to locate the call Mr B says he made in August 2018, they havent been  
provided with enough  information  from Mr B to help them do this in a way that would be a 
reasonable use of their resources.
Mr B feels  that Unum should  do more to find the call he says he made  in August 2018. He 
says the call will show Unum gave him the wrong  information which  led him to incur  the 
£1,450 that Unum now wont  reimburse.
Our investigator considered Mr Bs complaint and concluded that it shouldnt  be upheld.  Mr B 
doesnt agree so the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Mr Bs 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
Its clear from the policy that Mr B has an annual limit that applies to dental treatment. The 
issue here is whether  Unum gave Mr B wrong or misleading information  about how much 
hed incurred in his current policy year and how much of his limit was remaining, before he 
incurred more dental costs.
Mr B says he called  Unum to discuss his policy limit in August 2018. But based on the 
information Mr B has provided, Unum  havent  been  able to identify the call. Thats  because  
Mr B says he made the call from work, which was likely to have been from a withheld 
number. He also doesnt know the specific date the call took place on- although  he has said 
it was in late August  2018. 
Unum have reviewed their call recordings and ascertained that 106 calls were made to it 
from withheld numbers between 19 and 31 August 2018.They say its unreasonable  for them 
to listen to each  and every call in case one of those was made by Mr B. This is because 
those calls can only be accessed by team  leaders and they say that resource  is limited.  
Theyve also made the point that although theyve applied date parameters, its possible 
from what Mr B has said, that the call didnt take place during  those  times- it could for 
Ref: DRN43967412example have been earlier in August or on another date entirely. So theres no guarantee 
the call Mr B says he made  could  be amongst  them.
Our investigator asked  Mr B to check with his employer  about whether the call wouldve 
been recorded by them. Mr B has said his employer isnt able to trace the call. He wants  
Unum to listen to the 106 calls they have recorded  during the period they searched to 
ascertain whether the call he made  might  be there.
Its not for me to decide how Unum resource their business- thats a commercial decision for 
them. Im only able to decide whether Unum acted  unreasonably by misleading Mr B about  
his policy  claim and by refusing  to search  for the call Mr B says he made. Without  a call 
recording definitively suggesting Unum  gave Mr B misleading information, Im not persuaded 
they did anything  wrong. And based  on the information Mr B has given, I dont think  its 
unreasonable for Unum to refuse to search for calls between such  wide and uncertain 
parameters.
If Mr B is able to give Unum more specific information about the call he says he made-  
including the date and possibly the time he made it as well as confirmation of where the call 
was made  from, Id expect Unum  to reconsider their position. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint  against  Unum Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4396741