K820x#14Complaint
Mr H is unhappy about MYJAR Limited  (MYJAR) reporting information about his repayment 
history on his credit file. 
Background
Mr H took out a loan with MYJAR in October 2017. Under the terms of the agreement it was 
due to be repaid  in six monthly instalments. These were payable between  October 2017 and 
March 2018.
Whilst the first payment was made a few days late, the instalments due in November and 
December 2017  were paid on time. Mr H then encountered difficulty  making further regular 
payments. He informed  MYJAR about this and in response I understand a repayment plan 
was set up. Ultimately,  by the end of April 2018,  MYJAR has told us that Mr H had only been 
able to make  a further payment of £10.
MYJAR says that Mr H did try to make a payment on 6 June 2018. But by this point it said 
that he could either  pay the loans full outstanding balance or set up a repayment  plan. 
MYJAR then issued a default notice on 12 June 2018. MYJAR has said that under the terms 
of the notice a default wouldnt have been registered with credit  reference agencies if Mr H 
repaid the loan in full or agreed an arrangement to pay by 10 July 2018. 
By this point, the debt had been passed  to a third party to collect payments. Mr H contacted  
the third party  and a repayment plan was set up to pay the loan in two instalments on 1 July 
and 1 August  2018. Mr H contacted MYJAR to clarify the terms of the agreement. MYJAR 
responded and said that the default you have received  in 12/06/2018 wont be registered  if 
you have agreed  to payment of a repayment plan...
 
Mr H repaid the loan on 28 August 2018,  later than the agreed repayment date. MYJAR has 
said that it reported a default in July 2018 because Mr H didnt keep to the terms of the 
agreement. It has also told us that the loans status  was changed to satisfied when the loan 
was paid in full. 
Mr H doesnt think a default should  have  been  reported as he was in constant  
communication with the third party recovery agency and paid the loan in August 2018 as 
agreed with MYJAR. Mr H also says that sticking to the terms of repayment was affected by 
fraudulent activity on his bank card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think MYJAR  acted unfairly in reporting a default. Mr H disagreed  and 
the complaint  has now been passed  to me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  taking into account all of the relevant 
rules, guidance  and good industry practice.  
was it reasonable  to issue a default notice?
Its not in dispute  that Mr H didnt pay his monthly instalments in line with his loans 
contractual agreement. Following payment of the first three instalments, Mr H was required 
Ref: DRN42022652to pay around £101 per month in January, February  and March  2018. However, by 
12 June 2018,  when the default notice was issued,  Mr H had only been able to make  a 
payment of £10 towards these repayments. I think its reasonable to say that the account 
was substantially in arrears and that there  were  repayments which had been outstanding for 
quite some time after their due date. 
The Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO)  is the body set up to deal with a customers  
personal information. In January 2014 it released  a paper called Principles  for reporting of 
Arrears, Arrangements  and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies.  This document set out 
principles for lenders  (which MYJAR  is one) when reporting information to the credit 
reference agencies  (CRAs).
Understandably, the ICO requires  that information reported on a credit file is ..fair, accurate, 
consistent, complete  and up to date and where  regular payments are not made by the 
agreed date, principle two of the document says:  
If you do not make your regular expected payment by the agreed time and/or for the agreed
amount according  to your terms and conditions, the account may be reported to the CRAs
as being in arrears.
If this continues over time, the level of reported arrears will increase, which may result in the
lender taking some form of action. This could include  notification of their intention to report
the account as defaulted.
Considering these principles in connection  with Mr Hs repayment history, Im satisfied that it 
was fair for MYJAR to issue the default notice  on 12 June  2018. 
was it reasonable  to record a default? 
Principle four of the ICO guidance  explains that generally a default may be recorded when 
you are 3 months in arrears, and normally by the time you are 6 months  in arrears. This 
principle also explains when a default shouldnt be recorded. This includes the exceptions  
that a default shouldnt  be filed If you make  a payment, in time,  that fully meets  the terms set 
out in the default notice and where  ..an agreement is reached for an arrangement and you 
keep to the terms of that arrangement.
In this case Mr H didnt  make a payment during the default notice period.  However,  he did 
enter into an agreement  to repay the loan through two instalments on 1 July and 
1 August 2018.  When the agreement was set up Mr H had been in arrears for around 5 
months, as his missed  payments including the January 2018 instalment.  
Its clear though that Mr H didnt  keep to the terms of the agreement  reached following the 
default notice.  He missed  both scheduled  instalments, not being  able to make a payment 
until 28 August 2018, when  he repaid the loan in full. 
I appreciate Mr H experienced fraudulent  activity  on his bank card.  His card though  was 
cancelled by his bank several weeks before the arrangements repayment dates. And on
2 June 2018, his bank  wrote to him and said that a replacement  card would take two working 
days to arrive where a replacement had been  requested. Therefore, based  on the 
information that Ive seen  I think  its unlikely  that the fraudulent activity would solely explain 
why both the July and August payments were  late.
 
Ref: DRN42022653Mr H has also said that he told MYJAR that the loan would be repaid in August 2018  and it 
was repaid in this month. However,  the payment agreement required two payments to be 
made: one on 1 July and the second  on 1 August 2018. Mr H didnt  make  either  repayment  
and so didnt keep to the terms of the arrangement.  And Ive not seen sufficient  evidence  
that MYJAR  or the collection agency agreed  to vary the terms of the arrangement.      
So overall, taking  on board the ICO principle for recording a default, Im satisfied that 
MYJAR acted reasonably  by registering a default  for Mr Hs loan.  
is the information recorded  about  the default  accurate and up to date?
The loan was repaid in full on 28 August  2018, after the default  had been  reported in
July 2018. Following repayment, MYJAR says that it amended Mr Hs credit  file information 
to show the loan as satisfied. 
From what  Ive seen, I think this is an accurate and up to date reflection of the loans status.   
  
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Robert Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4202265