K821x#15complaint
Miss E complains  that a car she has been  financing through  an agreement with Clydesdale  
Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF),  has not been of 
satisfactory quality.
background
Miss E took receipt of a used car in October  2018.  She financed  the deal through a 
conditional sale agreement with BPF.  At the point of supply the car was about five years  old 
and had completed about 61,000 miles.
Miss E had problems with the car. As follows:
in December 2018 the Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) was replaced and so were 
some related sensors;
on 4 January 2019 there was a fault with the turbo. Miss E asked BPF to allow  her to 
reject the car but they refused;
in mid January Miss E took the car to the dealership and they repaired the turbo;
in October 2019 Miss E was involved  in an accident and the car was written off. The 
insurance paid all but £1,000 of the outstanding  balance of the agreement. This still 
remains outstanding.
When Miss E complained  to BPF they didnt think they needed  to approve the cars rejection 
as they said Miss E had approved the repairs that had been carried  out on the car when she 
signed a form at the dealership in mid January 2019. 
So Miss E complained  to this service  and our investigator provided his view.  He explained 
that relevant legislation allowed a business one opportunity  to repair  a fault with a car that 
was there  from the beginning. But here there  had been a further fault that had occurred  
within the first few months of ownership  and that he was therefore persuaded was most 
likely developing  at the point the car was supplied to Miss E. He noted that shed  asked to 
reject the car on 4 January  but as she hadnt been  allowed  to do so he thought she had no 
option but to approve the repair. He thought  that BPF hadnt been reasonable and that they 
should allow  the rejection  of the car.
So he suggested BPF should  terminate  the agreement and refund Miss Es deposit  but he 
thought it reasonable to suggest they could deduct the balance owed on the account  of 
£1,000 from that rebate. He also thought it was clear  Miss E had been inconvenienced  by 
these issues so he suggested BPF should  pay her £100 in compensation. He understood 
that further problems had arisen with the car in April 2019 and that Miss E had to pay to 
have the problems diagnosed. He suggested that BPF therefore refund this diagnostic  cost.
BPF didnt  agree with the investigators suggestion  and they therefore asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint BPF so please let me explain 
why.
Ref: DRN42956902Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss E acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then BPF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Miss E. The car 
here was around  five years old and had travelled about 61,000  miles. So I think a 
reasonable person would expect some  wear and tear but I dont think thered be an 
expectation that the car would not be driveable and I think the issues with the DPF and the 
turbo would mean that was the case.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask BPF to put this right. 
The relevant  legislation  would encourage us to assume that if a car developed a fault in the 
first six months it was likely to have been  there from the point of supply. The relevant 
legislation says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
The faults with the DPF and with the turbo were both reported  within  the first few months and 
I think its therefore most likely they were  present or developing at the point of supply.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity  to fix a 
fault but it does  not give a business  one chance  to repair  each separate fault that may occur. 
Whether a vehicle is of satisfactory quality when supplied refers  to the vehicle as a whole not 
each separate  component. Indeed the more  separate faults - the more  likely it is the vehicle 
isnt of satisfactory quality. So when the turbo fault happened in January 2019 I think  BPF 
should have allowed Miss E to reject the car.
I dont accept their argument  that Miss E approved the repairs.  I understand that she took 
the car to the dealership  for repairs to be carried out but this was only after shed been told 
she could not reject the car. So I dont think she had any other option. Its clear  she still 
wanted to reject the vehicle because a subsequent request was made from the dealership to 
BPF for a settlement  quotation - it appears  Miss E was considering part exchange options 
with them.
Ref: DRN42956903So I think this car was of unsatisfactory quality  and that BPF should  have allowed it to be 
rejected.
The car was written off in October and a balance of £1,000 remained on the account. I 
accept the investigators  suggestion that this can be deducted from any refund made to 
Miss E.
She appears  to have  been able to cover a reasonable  mileage in the car so Im not asking 
BPF to make  any refund  for loss of use of the vehicle and I can see they made some  
payment to her after her initial  complaint  in relation to that anyway.  
I do think Miss E will have  been inconvenienced  by these matters so I would agree with the 
investigators suggestion that some compensation should be paid by BPF in light of this. 
And, in the circumstances,  I think £100  is reasonable.
Miss E obtained a diagnostic report on the car in April 2019 when she said further problems 
had arisen. As the cars now been  written off its no longer possible to clarify those faults. But 
I think it would be reasonable to ask BPF to refund the cost of the diagnostic  report  as it 
would not have been required had they allowed rejection of the car when they should have 
done.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Clydesdale  Financial 
Services Limited to:
terminate the finance  agreement;
refund  Miss Es deposit  and add 8% simple interest  per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
retain £1,000  of the above  deposit refund;
pay Miss E £100 in compensation for the inconvenience caused;
refund  the cost of the diagnostic carried out in April 2019;
refund  any payments  made to the account  since the car was written off in October  
2019;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Es credit  file in relation to 
these issues.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4295690