K820x#14complaint
Ms R says Bank  of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background and summary to complaint
Ms R bought the PPI in 2007. The PPI was part of a packaged  plan which as well as 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover, and subject to its exclusions and limitations, 
also provided life cover and critical illness cover. 
From what  she has told us and the mortgage application summary Halifax  has provided, 
Ms R was employed at the time as a public sector support worker and had been there at 
least two years. Shes told us she was entitled to at least  12 months full sick pay and less 
than six but at least three months full pay for redundancy, as well as death in service  cover 
 and didnt have any other  means with which to pay her mortgage if she couldnt work. 
Given all shes  told us about  her job and length  of service, I think  it likely  Ms Rs sick pay 
entitlement at the time was at most six months  full pay followed by six months  half pay.
From what  Ms R has told us, at the time of the sale she was in good health and didnt have 
any health issues aside  from an allergy  shed had since childhood for which  she took tablets 
and which, from what shes told us, had never  kept her off work.  Shes also told us of having 
had, years earlier and on two occasions, a medical procedure carried  out  but from all shes 
told us about this, theres nothing to suggest that these procedures were  related to or led to 
any health issues that persisted afterwards  and shes told us she didnt take any medicine 
or receive  any other  treatment as a result of having  had these  procedures.
For a successful disability  or unemployment claim,  the PPI offered to pay 133% of Ms Rs 
monthly mortgage payment - initially a benefit of around £390 costing just over £23 a month.  
The life cover and critical  illness cover would, subject to their terms, pay a lump  sum to help 
clear the mortgage  in the event of death or Ms R suffering a critical illness.
Halifax has sent us evidence to show the mortgage  account started  in 2007. Ms Rs 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Ms Rs 
representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Ms R wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Ms Rs representatives believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Ms R about 
the poor value;  
Ref: DRN40214552The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Ms R and the impact  they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Ms R received  was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Ms R disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Rs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Rs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2007 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
Ref: DRN40214553a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time: The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance  
Business Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including Employees of Insurance 
Companies) other than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Halifax  was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Ms Rs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Ms R with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the PPI was appropriate or suitable  for her, given her needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Ms R sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the PPI, including drawing  to her 
Ref: DRN40214554attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the PPI and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms R, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms R suffered loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms R and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Rs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Ms R know she had a choice?
Ms Rs application for the plan was received by Halifax at around the same time as she took 
a mortgage loan. Ms R says the PPI was sold to her via a leaflet she was given  while also 
saying it was sold as part of the mortgage. Halifaxs policy records show  the policy  as having 
been sold by a branch. 
A statement about Halifaxs insurance  services,  included as part of the policy welcome  letter, 
says Halifax would assess  Ms Rs need  for repayments insurance and give her advice on 
this. A demands and needs note, from the same letter,  refers  to a discussion  between Ms R 
and Halifax.
Taking everything into account,  its not clear exactly how the PPI was sold but what I have 
makes me think it likely Halifax  sold it after having a discussion  with Ms R. 
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. I dont have all the paperwork that was 
completed at the sale, but I have the policy welcome  letter, sent to Ms R shortly after the 
sale and before her mortgage started. This referred to her as choosing the plan and said 
the monthly mortgage repayment benefit (for disability or unemployment)  was 133% of the 
monthly mortgage repayment If you have selected  this cover... It also mentioned elsewhere 
that: This product  is optional; it is not a condition  of your mortgage. These points in my 
view are evidence to suggest that Halifax  presented the PPI to Ms R as optional cover  and 
that the policy was only set up, and the mortgage repayments cover only included in it, 
because Ms R chose to have the policy and selected the mortgage repayments cover.
Ms R says she had no interest in PPI and says it was just included as part of the package 
with her mortgage. I give her recollections some weight. But with all Ive said above in mind, 
what Ms R has said isnt enough on its own to make  me think  Halifax  added  the PPI without 
giving her a choice about it  and Ive nothing else to make me think  this. 
In the light of all Ive said above,  I think it more  likely  than not the PPI was presented by 
Halifax to Ms R as something  she had a choice about taking. And she hasnt said anything to 
make me think Halifax pressured her into agreeing  to take it. So, having carefully considered  
all Ms R has said, taking everything into account I think its more  likely Ms R knew  the PPI 
was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did Halifax provide advice?
Ref: DRN40214555Halifax says it gave  advice during  this sale. Ms R hasnt said whether advice was given or 
not. With this in mind, and looking at what I have from the sale,  Im persuaded Halifax gave 
advice. This means  Halifax  had to advise Ms R with reasonable  care and skill, in particular 
whether the PPI was appropriate  or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know exactly what Halifax discussed  with Ms R, the documentary  evidence 
suggests it took some steps to establish  whether  the PPI was a suitable recommendation for 
her. A demands and needs statement was completed to try and establish whether Ms R had 
a need for the PPI, and Halifax  asked  questions about Ms Rs health, her medical history 
and her wider circumstances such any existing means. But I dont  think  Halifax did enough 
to ensure the PPI was suitable. For example, I dont think it did enough to find out whether 
Ms R had an existing health  issue that the PPI might exclude. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the PPI was suitable  for Ms R given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for Ms R, I do think  its more  likely  than not the PPI was ultimately suitable for her. In 
reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Ms R had a need for the PPI  even allowing for the sickness and redundancy benefits 
she was entitled  to, it seems likely her income would fall if unemployment or disability 
stopped her working for an extended period. The PPI benefit could help her manage the 
consequences in those situations and at what could  be a difficult  time if she were 
unemployed or too sick to work. 
-Ms R met the eligibility criteria for the PPI.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Ms R.
-There were  limits  to the cover  provided  by the PPI (including the fact the PPI would only 
pay benefits for a maximum  of 12 months for each claim, the fact claims for mechanical  
back pain, and for mental health  issues unless under specialist care,  were  limited to 
three months for each claim  and the requirement  that for disability  Ms R be unable to 
do her own or any similar job and unable  to do any work her experience,  education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do). But the PPI still provided valuable  cover given 
Ms Rs circumstances, the loss of income she could suffer  if she couldnt  work for a 
prolonged period due to disability or unemployment, the fact the PPI was to protect her 
ability to pay costs  related to her mortgage and the potential  consequences were Ms R 
unable to make the repayments on loans secured against  her house.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Ms R. She wouldnt 
have been able to claim for any work  absences  arising from her allergy  or related to the 
medical procedures  shed had some years earlier. But shed never  had any absences 
like these in the past - and nothing she has told us makes me think she wouldve thought 
this would change  in future  or that this was a significant issue for Ms R on which Halifax  
ought to have placed much weight. With all this in mind, what I have makes me think  
Halifaxs recommendation wasnt unsuitable notwithstanding this exclusion. 
Ref: DRN40214556the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Ms R sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the PPI to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take the PPI.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Ms R was given a broad description  of what  the PPI was 
intended to cover (that is, it would pay a benefit to help cover  her mortgage payment and 
related costs if she were  unable to work  due to accident, sickness  or unemployment)  and of 
the approximate  costs. I have reached  this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Ms R 
would have taken  the PPI without any sense of what it was for and of how much  the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Ms R agreed to take the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Ms R, Im not persuaded Halifax  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Ms R all the information  she needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Rs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Rs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Ms Rs representative  considers to be poor  value  and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Ms R about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Rs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Ms R has suggested. And, taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
Halifax ought to have done  either. 
Ref: DRN40214557what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Ms R? To what extent  did she suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this PPI to Ms R. So I have 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Ms R suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not she would have still 
taken the PPI, had Halifax  done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
PPI it recommended was suitable for Ms R, I have found the PPI was ultimately suitable for 
her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Ms R has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Ms R would have acted differently or whether  she would have taken the policy  in any event.
Ms R says she wouldnt have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Ms R had some interest in taking  payment  protection  
insurance. By this I mean when Halifax advised her there was suitable cover she could buy 
that would  protect  her mortgage payments if she were unable to work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment, she concluded she wanted that cover. But she made that 
decision based on incomplete information,  meaning  what she thought  she was getting is not 
exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Ms Rs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the PPI was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for her. Although I 
consider it more likely  than not Ms R knew she would have to pay something for the PPI, it 
doesnt appear Halifax told her the exact  premium  at the point she applied  for it. Having said 
that, I think it unlikely  Ms R wouldve agreed to the PPI without first having  an idea of the 
approximate cost. Also, she was told the actual cost before she started to pay for the PPI 
and before her mortgage started, so if the costs shown were significantly at odds  with her 
expectations at the point  of sale, its possible she might  have  raised that with Halifax or 
reconsidered her decision at that point.  Overall, Im not persuaded Ms R wouldve found the 
cost unacceptable  if she had been  given  the exact  figure at the time she agreed to it.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Ms R would get back  in return  
in the event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Ms Rs expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  her mortgage  
payment) were significantly  different to what the policy  actually did  if anything, it is more 
likely than not the policy actually paid more  in the event of a claim than she would have 
expected as the benefit was 133% of the mortgage payment, so there was an additional 
cash payment. Possibly the most significant  differences between what  Ms R thought  she had 
bought and what she actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN40214558The PPI excluded disability claims relating  to chronic conditions,  being any health issue  
Ms R knew  or shouldve known of at the policy start and that continued  indefinitely,  or 
was controlled rather  than cured, or had symptoms which recurred  and had required 
treatment or consultation more  than once in the past, or required long term treatment or 
investigation;
The PPI excluded disability claims relating  to any pre-existing condition  (being any health 
issue Ms R knew  or should  reasonably have known  of at the start, or for which  shed 
seen or arranged to see a medical  practitioner  in the 12 months before the policy  start), 
unless shed been symptom free and not consulted a doctor or received treatment for it 
within 24 months before the claim;
To be eligible  for a disability claim,  Ms R had to be unable to do her own or any similar 
job, and unable to do any work  her experience,  education or training reasonably qualified 
her to do;
The PPI contained  limitations on claims relating to mental health conditions  if the claim 
was for more than three months benefits,  placing more onerous evidential  requirements 
to support a claim on those grounds;
The PPI contained  limitations on claims relating to backache  or related conditions, with a 
limit of three  months  benefits if the claim related to mechanical back  pain (pain  due to 
distortion or dysfunction of the muscles, ligaments  or joints, which might include pain 
from spinal joints, vertebrae  or soft tissues but did not include disc injuries, diseases of 
the bones or pain referred to the back by diseases in other organs) while placing more 
onerous evidential  requirements to support  a claim related to other back conditions  
before more than three months  benefits could be paid;
The PPI excluded unemployment cover if Ms R hadnt  been in work for a continuous 
period of six months (but not counting as a break  two weeks or less out of work); 
The PPI protected  payments for up to 12 months, not the remaining mortgage term.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Ms R pause  for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the PPI wasnt  as good 
as she thought and she might  have decided not to proceed. The limitations  on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms R from taking  the PPI. 
But, the evidence  about Ms Rs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the PPI wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. She wouldnt have been able to make a claim related to 
the health issues shes told us about. But from what shes told us, I dont  think she wouldve 
thought there was a significant  chance  shed need to claim for those - and she hasnt told us 
of having had any other health issues. So I dont think Ms R would have been put off the PPI 
had she known more  about the policy exclusion for existing health  issues. 
I havent seen  evidence to suggest Ms R wouldve been caught  by any of the other  
significant exclusions  she was in permanent employment, for example. So, with this and all 
Ive said above  in mind, I think  Ms R still had some good reasons to take the PPI.
I accept back and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps required to 
make a disability claim for these  were more onerous  for claims exceeding three  months than 
Ms R might reasonably have expected.  But its unlikely she wouldve expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And, 
while she also might  not have expected the benefit limit for mechanical back pain and these 
Ref: DRN40214559limitations mightve dissuaded some consumers in slightly  different circumstances to Ms R 
from taking the policy,  Ms R, in her circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
If Ms R had known she could only claim for disability if she were not only unable to do her 
own or any similar job but also unable  to do any work her experience, education  or training 
reasonably qualified her to do, it might have  played into her thinking about what to do. And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although given Ms Rs circumstances, on 
balance I think she would  still have  been  interested in taking the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Ms R any claim she made  would be limited to a 12 month period. 
This may have differed  from what she expected and might have hoped for. But 12 months  
was longer than Ms R wouldve  received  full pay if she were sick and I think it likely  her 
redundancy entitlement was also worth  less than 12 months full pay. So, I consider it likely 
Ms R would still have thought a policy that paid a benefit to help her meet mortgage related 
costs for up to 12 months  would be of benefit  and help her manage the consequences if she 
couldnt work in the circumstances the policy covered. The policy allowed multiple claims 
and its benefit  could help reduce Ms Rs outgoings  at what  could be a difficult and uncertain 
time if she were sick or unemployed  and make it less likely her home  would be put at risk.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Ms R would still have  taken the PPI. It was suitable for her, sufficiently close  to what  its 
likely she thought she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences if she were  made  redundant, or unable to work through accident  or sickness.  
In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Ms R would have taken the PPI in any 
event notwithstanding  the limitations  on cover.
Ms Rs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms, but it is a relevant  consideration so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms R would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Ms Rs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms R 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ms R believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws  in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Ref: DRN402145510Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms R in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the PPI. That is because, while I accept it is possible she wouldnt have taken  the 
PPI, I am satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely  than not she would  still have taken 
the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the PPI she was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude Halifax should pay Ms R compensation, as that would put her in a better position 
than she would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware Ms R thinks  Halifax misrepresented the terms of the PPI in how it described 
the PPI. While I accept there  is a possibility a court might conclude  some of Halifaxs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Halifax gave Ms R, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2007 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Rs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Ms R and about  the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find Halifax  had been in breach  of its duty of utmost good  faith.  But 
this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Ms R in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4021455