K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank)  made it difficult  for 
him to cancel his home insurance policy when  it was up for renewal.
background
Mr S home insurance policy was due to be automatically renewed on 30 April 2019. He 
received the renewal quotation from Tesco by email  on 3 April 2019. Mr S was able to get 
cover from Tesco at a cheaper price  by applying again rather than renewing his existing 
policy. But he found it very difficult to cancel the renewal. He complained to Tesco, 
explaining its email  came from a no-reply  email address with no other email address 
provided. And the online account portal only allowed him to either accept the renewal or 
change the payment frequency.  To put matters right, Mr S wanted  Tesco  to cancel his policy  
and pay him £75 compensation for the 45 minutes  he spent in trying  to cancel it online and 
typing his complaint  email.
Tesco didnt  uphold  Mr S complaint, explaining  it didnt provide  the option  to reply to emails. 
Instead, policyholders  had to call or write to it for any cancellation  requests.  Tesco  also 
highlighted that in addition to the renewal email, its website also provides further information 
on how to cancel a policy. But on receiving Mr S complaint, it agreed to let his original policy 
lapse as it could  verify  the start date of the new policy. 
Mr S referred the matter to this office. He asked for £200 in compensation. Our investigator  
concluded Tesco hadnt acted unfairly. She was satisfied that in addition  to the renewal 
documentation, Tesco  also highlighted that policy renewal cancellation would need to be 
done via phone, at the time Mr S bought his policy. The investigator  went on to explain 
Tesco didnt  make cancellation options available online  as it wanted to control the risk of 
policyholders accidentally clicking the wrong button  and leaving themselves uninsured. She 
also explained it wasnt this offices role to make  financial businesses change  their terms and 
conditions. But we could  check  whether  a business  has followed the correct procedures  in 
line with its terms and conditions. And she was satisfied that Tesco had acted in accordance 
with its policies.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings. He didnt accept Tescos reason for not 
allowing policies to be cancelled  online as there  were risks involved with cancellation by 
letter. He believed it to be a process  designed to frustrate attempts to cancel policies and 
therefore generate  further business through inflated  premiums. Mr S also disagreed with 
what the investigator said about  our offices role. 
Mr S has asked  for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. I explain 
why.
Mr S says it should be as easy to cancel as it is to renew the policy. He wants Tesco  to 
provide him with the option  of sending a cancellation  instruction by email or through its 
online portal. Although  I acknowledge  Mr S would find it more  convenient if Tesco  offered 
this option, I cant  agree  that failure  to do so amounts to it not treating him  or indeed other 
customers  fairly. Let me explain why.
Ref: DRN42678512The financial  services regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set rules  
surrounding renewals  and cancellation  of insurance policies in its Insurance Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook  (ICOBS) which can be found  in the FCA Handbook. ICOBS 6.5 covers 
renewals and ICOBS 7 covers cancellation.  Having carefully considered these, Im satisfied 
Tesco has complied with them. Also, to my knowledge, there is no rule that requires a 
financial business to provide policyholders  the option to cancel their policy by email or 
through an online portal. 
Mr S says he spent 45 minutes trying  to cancel his policy online.  But Im satisfied Tesco  
made him sufficiently aware what he had to do if he didnt want  to renew  his policy.  Under 
the heading what you need to do next, Mr S renewal document  states  
If you need  to make any changes, discuss any part of your policy  or would like to change 
how we send your documentation,  please  contact us. If you wish to update your payment 
details you can do this in Your Insurance Account 
 If you do not want to renew  your policy, simply call our renewal  team on 0345 671 5688*.
And further information  could be found  on its website. So whilst I understand Mr S feels  very 
strongly about this, Im satisfied Tesco hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably. I can see Mr S 
has made comments about what Tesco and our investigator  has said about it not allowing 
online cancellations. This, along  with its security measures, is a matter  for Tescos 
commercial judgement and is not something this service  would  generally  interfere with. 
Finally, Mr S has said that the comments our investigator has made about our services  role 
indicate her lack of understanding of our statutory responsibilities. Its not for us to decide 
whether a term of an agreement is unfair   thats  a matter for the courts or relevant legal 
authority (of which we arent one). But we do consider whether the courts  or legal authority 
are likely to declare a term to be unfair.  And we also check  whether the application of the 
term is fair. In this case, Mr S could have  cancelled the renewal by calling Tesco.  
Additionally, it has explained he could have  also sent a letter.  Having given this some 
thought, I think its unlikely that the courts would consider this unfair on either  count. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4267851