K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that N.I.I.B. Group Limited (NIIB) refused to let her reject a faulty car.
background
In March 2018 Miss C acquired a car funded by a hire purchase  agreement with NIIB. It was 
some four years old and had done 24,218 miles. It cost £9,762 and Miss C paid a deposit of 
£4,000 and part exchanged a car valued at £1,100. Within a month  an engine warning light 
came on and she took the car back to the dealer. It identified an issue with the throttle 
control, but concluded  it was preforming as it should, and so the warning light was reset.
In June 2018 the warning light came on again the power distribution module  unit was 
replaced. Miss C complained to NIIB and in conjunction with the dealer it offered  to take the 
car back and pay her £4,000. Miss C didnt accept  this offer and brought  her complaint to 
this service. The engine  warning light came on again and Miss C took the car back  to the 
dealer. It carried out repairs to the engine control unit. In February Miss C provided our 
adjudicator with a photo showing the engine light still on. He noted  she had done almost  
9,000 miles in the car.
Our adjudicator took the view that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. He noted it had been 
in for repair on three occasions for the same issue which hadnt been fixed. He thought the 
dealer had been given  sufficient opportunity to make the repairs.  He noted Miss C had said 
recently that she would  like to keep the car and he suggested NIIB pay her £700.
Miss C responded  to say that she had been given a quote of £1,000  to fix the car and she 
thought rejection was the best solution. She also asked that she have some of her costs 
such as MOT, road tax and new tyres  etc. covered.  Our adjudicator concluded  that the car 
had an inherent  fault which caused the engine management light to come on and he 
concluded that she should be allowed to reject the car. 
He didnt think the additional  costs  claimed  by Miss C should be returned  to her. NIIB didnt 
agree with the adjudicators view and noted Miss C had driven some 9,000 miles which 
indicated the car was ok to drive. It said no faults  had been  found and the warning  light was 
only amber and not red. It also pointed out that Miss C had been  open to keeping  the car 
which indicated it was drivable. It added that rejection was unreasonable  given Miss C had 
rejected its original offer. 
Our adjudicator responded to say that the dealer had repaired the car on several occasions 
which indicated there was a fault. He also said the warning light even if it was amber  
indicated there was a problem.  He explained that rejection is done on the basis  of durability 
and satisfactory quality and in this case the customer had provided the dealer with multiple 
opportunities to resolve the faults.  The repairs had been unsuccessful and the problems still 
persisted which  confirmed unsatisfactory repairs and thus an issue  of satisfactory quality. He 
believed Miss C was entitled to reject the car. NIIB failed  to respond and the matter has 
been referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN46079902In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
NIIB is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
The engine warming light has come on on at least  four occasions.  Each  time it has been 
returned to the dealer. It has effected multiple repairs  and the problem remains.  The first 
occasion was within a month of purchase and Miss C asked  to reject it within six months.  I 
appreciate the business offered to accept rejection, but the terms werent to Miss Cs liking.
I can appreciate her response  and I think the proposed  settlement put forward by the 
adjudicator is fair and reasonable.  I dont think it sensible to downplay  an engine  warning 
light coming on even  if it is amber, particularly when it reoccurs  numerous  times. I suspect 
NIIB recognised this when it offered to take the car back. I note it recently  suggested an 
independent inspection. However, I think the time for that is past as it has been established 
that the car was faulty.
Under consumer law the dealer had one opportunity to repair the car so that it ran properly. 
It failed to do so. On that basis  rejection  is the next step. The original  offer would have left 
Miss C paying more than was reasonable in the circumstances. I note she has been able to 
make use of the car despite  the problems and I consider her monthly payments reflect that 
use. I also think her running  costs  do not need to be reimbursed for the same reason. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct N.I.I.B.  Group  Limited to:
End the hire purchase agreement with no further liability  to Miss C and ensure the 
agreement is recorded as settled on her credit  file.
Collect the car from Miss C at no cost to her.
Pay Miss C £250  for the distress and inconvenience caused  this would be for the 
amount of time the car had to be taken  in for checks and repairs.
Ref: DRN46079903NIIB is entitled to keep all payments made towards the hire purchase  agreement;  this 
is because its reasonable to assume  based  on the mileage covered  around  9,000 
in a year  that Miss C has had fair use of the car.
Refund the deposit of £5,100  (this consists of £4,000 cash deposit  and £1,100  for the 
part exchange of her old car) and pay 8% simple  interest  from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4607990