K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Mr B says 
Lloyds Bank  PLC, trading  as TSB,  mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr B says that he took out the credit card by post in 2000 and that he wasnt  aware  that PPI 
had been added to his card account at that time.
Lloyds doesnt  still have any records relating to the actual PPI sale. So it cant  be sure when 
or how it took place.  But in not upholding Mr Bs mis-sale complaint, it assumed that the PPI 
was sold to him when  he took out his credit card in 1996. And it also assumed that this was 
a branch sale where the PPI was recommended  to Mr B.
Our adjudicator didnt  think it made  a difference  how or when the PPI sale took place and 
whether or not Lloyds recommended the policy  to Mr B. They  thought that the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld whichever of these were taken  to be the actual circumstances of this 
sale.
Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.  Having  done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
This PPI sale took place  a long time ago. And Im not that surprised that Lloyds doesnt still 
have records relating to it. Businesses arent  required to keep such records  over these long 
time periods. In these circumstances, Ive kept an open mind  about how and when the PPI 
policy was sold. But I know the sale must  have taken place between 1996 when the credit 
card account  was opened,  and 2000 which is the earliest date Lloyds has card statements  
for Mr B showing PPI premiums  being charged.
Lloyds hasnt been able to provide a copy of the credit card application Mr B signed. Its sent 
us an example of an application form that they say would have been  used  at around the time 
of the sale. But I cant safely conclude that this was the type of application form Mr B would 
have filled in, so I havent relied on it.
However, this service has seen quite  a number of complaints  within the period of time when 
Mr B must have  bought his policy. This means  weve been able to develop  a relatively good 
understanding of Lloyds  usual sales processes  then. And were generally satisfied that 
Lloyds made  the optional  nature of the PPI clear  and sought  a customers consent before 
adding it to their accounts.  
The PPI premiums also appeared on Mr Bs credit card statements. And had Mr B not 
agreed to take the PPI, Id have  expected  him to have questioned why he was being 
charged these premiums. 
Ref: DRN43458662So on the basis of the limited information available, I think  its more likely than not that 
Lloyds made  it clear to Mr B that he didnt  have to take out the PPI and that he actively  
chose to do so. But I can understand why Mr B might not remember this now.
If Lloyds did recommend the PPI to Mr B, it needed  to ensure that it was suitable for him. 
And although I dont  know  whether - or how - it did this, from what  I know of his 
circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason  why it wouldnt have been suitable.  I say 
this because:
Mr B appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Mr B says he would  have received sick pay from his employer. He also says that he had 
other insurance cover at the time that would  have paid out if he became sick or 
unemployed, although he hasnt been  able to provide all the details about this cover  
which our adjudicator requested from him. But this does suggest to me that Mr B valued  
this type of protection and was willing to pay for it.
The credit card PPI specifically covered the repayments on Mr Bs account if he wasnt 
able to work because  of an accident, sickness or unemployment. It would have paid out 
ten percent of the outstanding balance on his credit  card account for up to twelve  months 
on a successful claim. It would also have given him some life cover. And it would have 
done this in addition to any other means  that Mr B might  have  had available  to him at the 
time. 
So I think he would still have valued  the extra security which the PPI policy  gave him.
Ive no real reason  for thinking that the PPI was unaffordable for Mr B. And as the 
premiums were  paid monthly,  he could  have cancelled the policy  if it no longer met his 
needs.
Whether or not the PPI policy was recommended to Mr B, Lloyds also needed to give 
him enough information about  it for him to decide  if he wanted to take it out. I think 
Lloyds could have  given him better information  than it did. But for much the same 
reasons that I dont  think the policy was unsuitable for him, I dont think  better information 
would have changed his mind about  taking it. I still think  he would have thought it gave 
him useful cover  at an affordable  price.
Ive thought carefully about the points Mr B has made in responding to the adjudicators 
view. But these dont  change my mind  about  not upholding his complaint. This means Lloyds  
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. But Lloyds has offered to pay 
back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN43458663my final decision
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does  not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it hasnt already done this, I direct  that it 
should now do so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4345866