K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc stopped an online transaction hed 
made due to a fraud security check and that it didnt notify him immediately. He said this 
stopped him from completing a purchase  at a discounted price.
background
During the evening of 25 May 2018 Mr B used his NatWest card online to purchase  e-
vouchers for a retailer  he wanted to make  a purchase from. He was able to buy these 
vouchers at a discounted rate, which wouldve given him a 13% saving of their face value. 
Mr B intended to use these vouchers to purchase a handbag from the retailer in question. It 
was already in the sale and, so, stock  of this item was limited. 
Later that evening NatWest notified  Mr B by text message that his online transaction  had 
been unsuccessful  because it had been referred for a security  check. It asked  him to confirm 
the purchase was genuine. But Mr B said, due to the time at which  this message was sent, 
he didnt see it until the following  morning when he noticed the handbag was no longer 
available.
Mr B said hes checked with other retailers and, while the handbag remains available to 
purchase, it isnt on sale. Mr B complained  about  what had happened. He said it shouldnt  
have blocked  his transaction and shouldve notified  him that it had been  blocked 
immediately. He also complained about  the customer service hed received when speaking  
to NatWest after this had happened. And he felt it should compensate  him for the difference 
between the sale price and non-discounted purchase price of the handbag. But NatWest 
didnt uphold  his complaint because  it said it had stopped the online transaction due to its 
fraud compliance procedure and that it hadnt made  an error  in doing so. It paid him £50 as a 
gesture of goodwill for the customer service issues hed received and £5.40 towards the cost 
of his telephone calls.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it and, while they empathised  
with Mr B, they didnt  think  that NatWest had done  anything wrong or needed to do anything 
more here.  Mr B disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons. I understand that Mr B will be 
disappointed with my conclusions so Ill explain why I dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate Mr B had a limited window in which he was able to make his purchase.  And I 
realise it mustve been frustrating to learn  that the handbag in question  was sold out due to 
its reduced sale price. But thats  not something  I can fairly hold NatWest responsible for if it 
hasnt made  an error in blocking  the purchase.
Banks have a duty to have robust strategies to safeguard customer accounts from fraudulent 
transactions. Preventing  fraud is as important for the bank as it is for its customers. Here, 
Natwest had concerns that Mr Bs account  was potentially being used fraudulently. The 
purchase was for a significant amount and NatWest  said the transaction was similar to fraud 
trends it had identified. So, Im satisfied  the security check was part of NatWests strategy to 
Ref: DRN44053272reduce fraud and that it was made correctly. As our investigator explained,  this was just as 
much for Mr Bs protection as it was for NatWests.
Ive also considered whether NatWest acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Bs 
account. As Mr B opened his account  in 2000  NatWest havent been able to provide  a copy 
of the terms and conditions that applied then due to the passage  of time. I understand Mr B 
didnt retain  a copy of the terms and conditions it wouldve sent him when his account was 
opened. Ive seen the current  terms, which wouldve been in place at the time Mr B tried to 
complete his purchase. These terms clearly say NatWest will always  follow a customers  
instruction, unless they reasonably believe that they didnt authorise the instruction or 
reasonably suspect the instruction is fraudulent. Here NatWest  stopped  the transaction  
because it reasonably suspected that Mr Bs card was being used fraudulently or without his 
permission. So I am satisfied it acted in line with the account terms.
Part of Mr Bs complaint concerned the fact that NatWest didnt notify him that his 
transaction had been unsuccessful immediately. In considering whether the time it took 
NatWest to communicate this was fair and reasonable Ive thought about the measures it 
took here. 
I can see it attempted to contact Mr B to confirm  the authenticity of the transaction. 
Unfortunately, due to the online transaction being  attempted at almost 9 pm by Mr B this 
meant that when NatWest  text him, 2  hours later, he was already sleeping.  It wouldnt be 
fair for me to hold NatWest responsible  for this. I say this because had the transaction been 
completed earlier in the day, I believe, on balance, that NatWest wouldve responded sooner 
and while  Mr B was still awake. And I think this wouldve most likely enabled him to secure 
the online purchase hed wanted to make. As the transaction took place outside of usual 
business hours I dont  think  an alert sent within 2  hours was unreasonable. I can see that 
when Mr B responded, at 5:56 the following morning,  to confirm the transaction wasnt  
fraudulent NatWest approved it within 10 minutes.  So I think, overall,  NatWest  responded as 
promptly as it could  in the circumstances.
I understand the vouchers  Mr B intended  to purchase would most likely be delivered to him 
immediately by email. Because he didnt receive the vouchers, after attempting to buy them,  
I think he should have  been aware that there was a problem with this transaction before he 
went to bed. And by morning, of course, the handbag was already unavailable.
Having carefully considered everything  Mr B and NatWest  have said here I think that when it 
blocked the transaction it acted in Mr Bs best interests and in line with the terms and 
conditions Ive seen.  It couldnt have known  that the online purchase was authentic  unless 
and until Mr B was able to confirm  this. For the reasons  outlined  previously, I cant  hold 
NatWest responsible for the fact that Mr B was sleeping  when  he was notified  that his 
payment has been subject to a fraud security check. 
I understand that NatWest told Mr B it would consider any evidence of loss he incurred  if he 
could provide evidence that the handbag was discounted and that hed purchased  it at the 
non-sale price. Mr B says this was poor customer service and is unhappy with what  NatWest 
suggested as he cant provide this evidence because the handbags no longer available. So, 
this means it cant be found  on the retailers website. But NatWest didnt agree to 
compensate Mr B for the price difference. It only said it would consider any evidence 
provided by him. And as I dont think NatWest has made an error  here,  even if Mr B had 
been able to provide this evidence to me, I wouldnt have asked NatWest to compensate him 
for the price difference. 
Ref: DRN44053273I understand that NatWest has already credited Mr Bs account with £55.40 as a gesture of 
goodwill. This is to recognise the poor customer service Mr B feels  he received and to 
compensate him for his call costs. This isnt something Id have told NatWest  to do as part of 
my decision  here.
So, for the reasons set out above, Im satisfied NatWest has acted fairly  and reasonably and 
I dont think it would  be fair to ask it to do anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4405327