K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Arrow Global Limited mishandled  an alleged debt it bought from a third 
party.
background
Mr M had a business loan with a bank I will call H. This was disputed by him some years  
ago. Arrow  bought the loan from H in May 2016 and it had been defaulted on 15 January 
2014.
Arrow obtained a court  judgment, but in so doing described the debt as an overdraft. Mr M 
pointed out the error  and also the fact that he had disputed the loan with H and that in the 
absence of suitable evidence it was not collectible. Arrow checked with H which confirmed 
the debt came from a managed loan and not an overdraft. It agreed to have the court order  
dismissed, but this took time as incorrect wording was used on the application form.
It went on to say that despite  the original documentation not being  available  it was still able 
to pursue the debt and it could still be reported  on his credit file. However, it agreed that it 
had made  an error with regard the type of debt and offered him £150  compensation. It also 
agreed to remove the county court  judgement from his credit  file. 
Mr M brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
adjudicators who recommended  it be upheld. She explained that this service  cannot decide 
whether a debt is legally enforceable, but we could  consider Arrows actions in pursuing the 
debt which  the courts had decided was unenforceable.
She noted Arrow had confirmed that it couldnt collect the debt and that they will close their 
file. It had said it would remove the CCJ entry on Mr Ms credit  file. However, the default 
applied by H in 2014 would remain. As this wasnt added by Arrow the adjudicator  said this 
was something Mr M would need to raise directly  with H should he be unhappy about it.
She thought  that as this debt was never  enforceable it wasnt fair that Mr M had been  
pursued for it and she accepted it wouldve caused  him considerable stress and anxiety. She 
also thought it important that Arrow Global write to Mr M confirming the courts  dismissal and 
what this means for him. She also recommended  it pay £300  compensation. 
Mr M said that the default on his credit file named the creditor  as Arrow and so it was 
responsible for removing  it. He also thought that the compensation was insufficient given the 
delay in resolving  the matter. He said he had been prevented  from buying  house due to the 
entries on his credit  file. The adjudicator asked Arrow to remove the default entry and she 
asked Mr M for evidence the problems in buying a house were due to the actions of Arrow.  
Arrow did not respond directly to the request to remove the default and said that it wasnt  
obliged to disclose  documentation as it issues proceedings online and simply needs to state 
the amount it is claiming and what it is in relation to. However it accepted the adjudicator  
was correct that the debt wasnt enforceable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN44385722I am only considering  the actions of Arrow in this matter  and I appreciate Mr M has issues  
with H and its collections arm about  the original  debt. Arrow received the debt in good  faith 
and relied on information  provided  by H. I dont believe I can conclude  it should have done 
more to clarify the details behind the debt. However,  as a result of it being wrongly badged  
by H as an overdraft  this led to Arrow taking incorrect proceedings.
It has agreed to have the court judgment  dismissed and this is fair and reasonable. It has 
also accepted  that the debt is unenforceable and that any reference to the court judgement 
should be removed  from Mr Ms credit file. 
There have been  some delays due Arrow using the incorrect terminology when seeking 
dismissal of the order. There has also been some  uncertainty about the default registered in 
2014. This was before  Arrow acquired  the debt and it wasnt responsible for registering the 
default. However, it has taken over responsibility for the default and its name is shown as the 
owner of the debt.  
I note it says that although  the debt is unenforceable in the courts it remains  outstanding. Mr 
M has disputed this and in all honesty I cannot say if he ever paid off the debt he incurred.  
However, given the confusion  surrounding  the matter and the trouble he has been  put to by 
Arrow and others I believe it would  be appropriate for it to be removed from his credit  file.
As for the matter of compensation I consider the £300 suggested by the adjudicator  is fair 
and reasonable.  I cannot say that this debt has been the cause of Mr M not being  able to 
obtain a mortgage and so I believe the award  reflects the trouble and upset caused by 
Arrows actions  alone.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Arrow Global Limited to pay Mr M 
£300 compensation. It should also write to him confirming  the file has been  closed  and what 
this means for Mr M and it should remove the default entry from 2014 from his credit file. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4438572