K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Elite Insurance Company Limited declined their claim under 
their renewal energy  product insurance  policy. My references to Elite include its agents.
background
Mr and Mrs W bought a solar power system in 2015  installed  by a business  which  Ill refer to 
as F. The system came with an insurance  policy, insured by Elite, which  came  into effect if F 
ceased to trade.
In 2015 Mr and Mrs W complained to F about  the solar panels  not performing  as expected. 
There was a consistent short fall in the units their system generated against expected  
generation. F inspected  the panels a couple of times  and said there  was no fault. But Mr and 
Mrs W say one of Fs inspectors told them there was a design  problem  because  of 
shadowing from their chimney. They didnt get written confirmation  of the problem and F took 
no substantive  action.
In 2017 Mr and Mrs W asked another  business to look at their solar panel system to explain 
the consistent shortfall. That business  inspector reported:
We have noted  that the east facing  roof has substantial shading caused by a large chimney 
directly in front of the array. This is what we consider to be the main  contributor to the 
system underperforming.
The report  recommended  removing the panels  and fitting solar  edge power optimisers. Mr 
and Mrs W claimed  on the insurance  with Elite as F had ceased to trade  in 2017. They want 
Elite to cover the recommended  work.
Elite declined the claim. It referred to the policy exclusion for maintenance, overhaul and 
modification. It said the policy only covered workmanship of the installation not equipment 
failure. It also said the policy only covered faults  that developed after F ceased to trade 
whereas Mr and Mrs W had noticed the problem when  F was trading.
Our investigator thought Elite had unfairly declined the claim.
Elite didnt agree and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It said the claim wasnt  covered for 
several additional reasons. There was only a valid claim where the issue  was specifically 
stated as being covered by the written workmanship guarantee F provided to Mr and Mrs W. 
Elite sent us the workmanship guarantee. Elite said there was no guarantee of the income  
from the feed-in tariff or to match the estimated generation F gave. Also the policy excluded 
various issues relevant  to Mr and Mrs Ws claim (which Elite listed).
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to not uphold this complaint. 
I said:
The policy says:
The Insurer agrees to indemnify the Policy Holder in respect  of the cost of making good a 
Defect in the Insured works where the Installer  has ceased trading and is unable to honour 
Ref: DRN41555402the terms of their own Written Workmanship Guarantee issued to the Policy Holder. A Defect 
is considered to be a physical  fault or error  in the Insured Works which  was caused by the 
defective workmanship of the Installer but which will only form the basis of a valid  claim 
where it is specifically stated as being covered by the Written  Workmanship  
Guarantee provided to the Policy  Holder by the Installer  (my emphasis).
Ive read the written  workmanship guarantee F gave Mr and Mrs W. I cant see any mention 
of F guaranteeing the income from the feed-in  tariff or to match the estimated generation F 
gave for the panels.
I appreciate F made  at least one payment to Mr and Mrs W for the deficit between  the 
estimated and actual  units the panels  produced. But even  if I thought that meant  F had 
implicitly guaranteed  the unit production from the panels, the claim isnt covered because  of 
the exclusions Ive detailed below.
Ive also considered whether the claim would  be covered by the written guarantee saying the 
installer will use reasonable care and skill. As the report Mr and Mrs W obtained is clear  the 
panels under  performance is mainly  due to the positioning of the panels I could say that F 
didnt use reasonable care and skill. But I still think the claim isnt covered due the 
exclusions below.
Elite has referred to various  policy exclusions which it says mean the claim  isnt covered. 
I dont think all of the exclusions  its mentioned  are relevant. But I do think the following 
exclusions apply to Mr and Mrs Ws claim:
5. any remedial work, costs or losses associated with any warranty, promise or guarantee in 
respect of the insured works with regard to the efficiency, minimum output  or performance of 
manufactured equipment
18. the rectification of the defective design of the insured  works
20. any Defect discovered or reported  to the Installer  prior to the Installer  Ceasing to Trade.
Mr and Mrs W's claim is about poor workmanship which  has caused loss of the panels 
efficiency and performance. The report says the poor workmanship relates to how the panels  
have been placed in the chimneys  shadow,  which is defective design.  Mr and Mrs W were  
aware of the problems  with the panels' unit production,  and that the problem was likely to be 
the panels' layout, before  F ceased to trade.
For the above reasons even if I thought the claim was covered by the policy  Elite can fairly 
and reasonably rely on one or more  of the policy  exclusions  to decline the claim.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs W accepted and Elite had no comment on my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr and Mrs W accepted and Elite had no comment on my provisional decision I have no 
reason to change  my mind. For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional findings  and these 
Ref: DRN41555403findings I dont  uphold this complaint. Elite can fairly and reasonably rely on one or more  of 
the policy exclusions to decline  the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4155540