K820x#14complaint
Ms A has complained about  her home  insurer U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI). After she made 
claims to it for water damage which had occurred during  a burglary, it avoided her cover  
from renewal (treated  it as though it hadnt existed from that point)  and, as a result,  wouldnt  
consider her claim.
background
Ms A arranged cover with UKI in August 2016. This renewed in 2017 and in early  
November 2017  Ms A came home to find thered been a burglary during which  copper water  
pipes had been stolen. She contacted  UKI and it began investigating.
UKI found out that Ms A had strong links to another property  which  was in the catchment 
area where  her children went to school. It noted  the insured  property was in a poor state of 
repair with the front door being very difficult to use. A neighbour told it Ms A didnt live there  
and checks with the utility company revealed that only 18 units of electricity had been used 
in the period November 2016  to October  2017.  
UKI felt the property  was likely unoccupied  and after reviewing its guidelines on cover, which 
said it wouldnt insure an unoccupied property, it told Ms A it was avoiding her policy from its 
renewal in 2017. Ms A complained. She said shed  been slowly  renovating  her property  over 
the last year which meant her children were  staying with their grandparents, where she 
occasionally slept too. But she often slept in the attic in her property so the house  hadnt 
been unoccupied.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She felt that, in the circumstances, UKIs 
decision had been fair and reasonable. 
Ms A said she hadnt been using electricity as she couldnt afford it. And nor had she been 
able to start the renovations,  but could show quotes shed obtained with a view to starting 
that. She said she was still paying her mortgage  and council  tax and there  were  neighbours 
who could vouch for her living there. Our investigator wasnt  persuaded by what  Ms A said to 
change her view and the complaint was passed to me for a decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst it isnt clear  what question UKI asked  Ms A at renewal about occupation of the 
property I know it asked  her a clear question  when the cover  was arranged and she told it 
the home wouldnt be unoccupied for more  than 60 days. And Ive seen its cover guidelines 
which show that as well as at the start of cover, if, at any point during the cover  the house  
becomes unoccupied it will cancel the policy  it wont provide insurance where a house  is 
unoccupied. 
Ms A had a duty to take reasonable care to provide  UKI at the start of cover with an answer 
that, to the best of her knowledge, was correct. She also had a duty during the period of 
cover and a renewal to tell it of any material changes. 
Ref: DRN44405182Im not sure what Ms A reasonably knew when cover was arranged.  But UKI has only sought  
to avoid cover from the point of renewal. And it was Ms As own meter  readings that showed 
a very minimal  electricity usage  of 1.6 units a month in the nine or ten months running up to 
the 2017 renewal, and continuing for two to three  months beyond it (but prior to the theft). 
Whilst I know Ms A has sought  to explain that very low usage, UKI has also explained that a 
neighbour told it Ms A wasnt living there. It also said it found evidence  that Ms A had links to 
her parents  property. Im also mindful  that Ms A herself has said that she couldnt use her 
home as most people  would, that she could  only sleep there, because of the damp issues 
that had caused the need  for her to renovate and her children to move out. On balance then 
I think UKIs decision  that the house  was unoccupied and likely had been for an extended 
period was, in this case, fair and reasonable.
Given that Im satisfied that UKIs  view that Ms As home was unoccupied was fair and 
reasonable, that Ms A should have told it about  the unoccupancy and that it wouldnt have 
offered cover if it had known, Im not going to require UKI to change its position. I thinks its 
action, in this case, were  fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against U K Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4440518