K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation  to a solar  
panel system he says was misrepresented  to him by the supplier.
Mr M is represented  by a claims management  company (the CMC).
background
In or around September 2013, Mr M was contacted by a representative  of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar  panel  system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited  by a representative  of P, Mr M decided to purchase  the system  and 
finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.  The system was 
subsequently installed.
In April 2016 the CMC made a claim on Mr Ms behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr M to enter into the contract  with P. The CMC  said 
the following  misrepresentations had been made:
the sales representatives stated the FIT income generated would cover the annual  
loan repayments  of £1,205.64 but the income is much lower  than promised; 
the credit  agreement would be self-funded  by the FIT payments alone; 
the system would not cost him a penny ; and,
he would  make savings on his electricity bills.
The CMC also raised  concerns under  section  140A of the Act. It said there was an unfair 
relationship between Mr M and Shawbrook due to the misleading representations made 
about the systems expected performance.
On making the section  75 claim to Shawbrook, the CMC  provided; a copy of a non-
compliance hearing from the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC)  dated 
December 2013,  copies of marketing material used  by P, a job advert for P, the loan 
agreement with Shawbrook and some of Mr Ms electricity  bills and FIT statements.
In its final response letter  Shawbrook said, having reviewed the information  it held on file, as 
well as information provided by P, that it didnt  agree  the system had been misrepresented  to 
Mr M or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.  In summary, it said:
the contract P had provided  Mr M set out the expected total returns from the system 
and this, alongside the finance agreement, made  it clear that the system was not 
self-funding immediately and that there  would  be a cost involved; 
the contract with P showed  that the expected  annual return  in year one were £907.00 
and the loan agreement clearly stated  the loan repayments were £100.47 or 
£1,205.64 annually, so it was clear  there  would  be a deficit; 
the performance of the system and any deterioration are set out in the contract;
the system wouldnt increase Mr Ms electricity consumption,  and any increase in his 
Ref: DRN49863652electricity bills would be due to a change in lifestyle; and
Shawbrook didnt  pay any commission to P for introducing Mr M to it.
Unhappy with this response,  the CMC  referred the complaint to this service.  One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered  all the information  and 
evidence provided,  our investigator thought  the benefits of the system were misrepresented 
as the system is underperforming compared  to the estimations provided at the point of sale.
The investigator recommended  that Shawbrook should reduce the total amount payable  by 
Mr M so that it equalled the benefits  the system would generate over the original loan term.
Shawbrook and the CMC did not respond  so the case has been  passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes  section  56 and section  75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services  bought  using credit. It states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement,  any claim against 
the supplier in the respect of a misrepresentation or breach  of contract, he shall have 
a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly 
and severally liable to the debtor.
As Mr M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction.  This means  that Mr M could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against  P, the supplier. So, Ive taken  section  75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances  of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations  between Mr M and 
P, as the supplier,  are deemed to have  been  conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision  Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made  by one party (or his agent) to a second party which  induces 
that second party to enter  the contract, thereby  causing them  loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This states:
(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit  
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the debtor 
Ref: DRN49863653arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor  because  of one or more of the following:
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other  thing  done (or not done)  by, or on behalf of, the creditor  (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the creditor  
and matters relating  to the debtor).
So, Ive considered whether a court might find that there existed an unfair relationship.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and Ps quote  for Mr Ms solar  panels.  Ive considered 
these in detail  to see whether they support P having  made the alleged representations.
The quote  is a detailed document that sets out key information  about the system,  the 
expected performance, financial benefits  and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales  process  and is therefore relevant when considering  if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside  Mr Ms recollection of the sale.
Shawbrook have provided detailed information explaining Ps sale processes. This detailed 
that Ps sales practice was for the quotation to be sent to the consumers shortly after the 
initial meeting  via email.  Based on our experience  of what we have seen with similar 
complaints, Im satisfied  that, on the balance of probabilities, P would have sent this 
document to Mr M and I have no reason to doubt thats what happened  in this complaint. 
The credit agreement, which was also provided by the CMC at the time the original 
complaint was made, sets out the amount being  borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual  monthly repayments.
Ill now consider the alleged  representations made as set out above.
The FIT payments
Mr M has alleged that he was told his monthly  loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by his FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what he says he was told, as I consider  the quote  was 
central to the sales presentation.
Page four of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr M could expect to receive by way of 
FIT payments from the system. This is split out into two tables. The first shows  the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income over 20 
years. My understanding  is that the system would only receive FIT payments  for 20 years  
and this is why 20 years has been  used in the quote.  These tables appear as follows:
Ref: DRN49863654I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Mr M could expect to receive a 
total income in year one of £633.70 from his FIT.
The quote  goes  on to look at the electricity savings Mr M could expect from the system.  The 
expected year one electricity savings is £276.00 and a table titled Putting  it all together 
shows the combined income and savings in year one as £909.70. 
There is a page  titled system  performance and returns with a series of tables.  Theres a 
section titled repayments. This has three tables set out over 60 months,  120 months and 
180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months this is the length of the loan that Mr M 
entered into with Shawbrook.  This table sets out that there  are 120 monthly  payments of 
£100.47 due and compares the overall expected grand total from the system, averaged over 
a monthly basis, versus the expected  loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly  sets out the income  Mr M could expect to receive from the system,  
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual  monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept  that the table doesnt  simply compare the FIT income to his monthly loan 
repayments, it does  clearly set out that the overall income  he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover  his 
monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that he was told that his monthly  loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income  alone.
Total cost of the system  and expected benefits
Ill consider whether P told Mr M that the system would not cost him a penny , and that he 
could expect to receive  a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit  of £909.70.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system  versus 
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format, comparing 
the two.
Im satisfied that this table  shows that in the first year Mr M was expected to have made a 
loss of £24.66 a month and in the second  year this would decrease  to a loss of £21.27 a 
month. It wouldnt  be until year eight was repaid that the expected benefits would exceed his 
monthly loan repayments, and, by my calculation, it wouldnt  have been  until around year 11 
that he would have sufficiently recouped any previous annual  losses and the system would 
be paying for itself.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system  wouldnt  be self-funding from the start,  
and Im unable to conclude that Mr M was told that the system,  would not cost him a 
penny.  I think the quote is clear that there  would  be a difference  between his expected 
income and monthly  loan repayments.
I do accept that Mr M was told that hed receive a year one benefit  of £909.70 as this was 
the expected combined income  from FIT payments and electricity savings on his energy 
bills. Having  said that, taking into account the available evidence,  Im not persuaded that 
Mr M was led to believe that hed receive this sum in his hand.  Im satisfied that the quote 
makes it clear that hed have to make loan repayments and overall there  would be a deficit.
Ref: DRN49863655I also accept that Mr M was told by P that the system would pay for itself over the loan term. 
The estimated performance over 20 years page  of the quote  has a table  detailing  the 
performance over 20 years.
This shows that by year 11 the overall benefits  that Mr M could  expect to receive  would have 
exceeded the total amount payable under  his loan agreement. This table also sets out the 
panel degradation rate so Im satisfied that P made him aware that performance of the 
system would deteriorate over its lifetime.  
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr M that the system would pay for itself by 
year 11, as supported by the table above.  If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
So, Ive gone  on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with 
the contract  between P and Mr M. The quote sets out that the system is expected to produce 
3,680 kWh a year and this in turn would generate the income by way of FIT payments and 
savings in his energy  bills, Mr M could  expect to receive.
Ive calculated that the system should,  on average, generate 10.08  kWh of energy each day. 
Mr M has provided his FIT statements which show that between  January 2014 and 
May 2021 the system  generated  23,241.00 kWh which equates to 8.56 kWh a day or 
3,124.40 kWh a year. This is significantly less that the estimations provided at the point of 
sale.
Im satisfied that the predicted generation, and the subsequent FIT payment and electricity 
savings, would have  induced Mr M into entering  the contract. The actual generation, and 
therefore income, are significantly  lower  than he was promised so he has suffered a loss. 
Shawbrook have not responded to the investigators  assessment with any explanation or 
reason as to why the system is significantly underperforming. Therefore, based  on the 
information we have on file I think its more likely than not that the system is underperforming 
and this amounts  to a mis-representation. So, I think this case should be upheld. 
I note the CMC has raised some additional points.  But, whilst I have considered these, 
having already  established there  was most  likely a misrepresentation at the point of sale, it is 
not necessary  to discuss these points in this decision.
Ill go on to explain what I think fair compensation should be. 
Fair compensation
Our role is to resolve individual disputes  between  consumers  and businesses  fairly, 
reasonably, quickly  and informally. Determining fair compensation is not always an exact  
science and it is more  difficult  in a case like this where solar panels  have been installed at 
the property.
Ive considered if its fair to unwind the credit  agreement, remove  the solar panels and give 
Mr M a refund  of all the payments made  (less any financial  benefit gained from the 
Ref: DRN49863656installation of the solar  panels). But I think it may be disproportionate to do this when the 
panels are working  and generating green  energy. I think theres an alternative that would put 
Mr M in a fair position.
In this case, I think fair compensation is trying to make sure that Mr M doesnt suffer  a 
financial loss, which in my view would  mean  that the solar  panel system should be cost 
neutral over the 10-year loan term  in summary, my aim is to make  sure that total outgoings 
(including the monthly loan repayments) are equal  to any income and savings that the 
panels generate.
So, I think to put things right Shawbrook should recalculate the original loan based on the 
known and assumed  savings  and income  to Mr M from the solar panels over the 10-year  
term of the loan, so he pays  no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system.  This 
will put Mr M in a cost neutral position  over the loan term, meaning  that hes not 
disadvantaged by the mis-representation.
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr M have the following options as to how he 
would like the overpayments to be used:
a)the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly  payment  resulting in the loan finishing early,
b)the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly  payment until the end of the loan term,
c)the overpayments are returned  to Mr M and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment  resulting in the loan finishing early, or
d)the overpayments are returned  to Mr M and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.  
It is likely  that, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr Ms monthly  repayments  would reduce, 
meaning that he has paid more each  month  than he should  have  resulting in an 
overpayment balance.  If so, Mr M has been  deprived of the amount of the monthly 
overpayment. And so Shawbrook should  pay Mr M 8% simple interest, per annum, on the 
amount of each overpayment from the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement.
I also think that Shawbrook should  pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited should put 
things right in the manner  set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2021.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4986365