K822xcomplaint
Ms G complains that Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited  failed to tell her about  
the costs involved  with a critical illness plan (CIC) and mortgage payment insurance (MPI), 
both recommended in 2014. She was also not told about the advisors commission.
background 
She also said:
She was not told the insurance  was optional
She was not told she could cancel the policies during  the cooling-off period
She was given paperwork stating that the cost would  be £17 a month but she has 
since discovered L & G has been taking £38 a month
She was not asked  if she had existing cover
She was not told she would pay interest on the insurance
An advisor at this service  felt the evidence showed that L & G had made her aware of the 
cost of the policies (which  would have been obvious anyway from the direct debits) and of 
the advisors commission  plus notice of the cooling-off period.
She said that while Ms Gs workplace  benefits  would have paid out in the event of sickness  
for 12 months, the MPI would have kicked in after this and so was a valuable benefit. She 
also felt that there had, most likely, been a discussion of her workplace cover and the 
recommendation had, in effect, taken this into account.
She also felt Ms G had an obvious needed for the CIC given her mortgage commitment  but 
thought the cover should have matched this debt i.e. with the sum assured reducing in line 
with the mortgage rather than staying  the same. She therefore felt L & G should refund the 
difference between  the cost of her CIC premiums and those on a policy  where the sum 
assured reduced  in line with her mortgage. It should  also add 8% simple  interest to these  
amounts.
L & G agreed to refund  the difference in premium costs and pay interest, as outlined by the 
investigator. It said it could then reissue  the policy based on the correct  current  (and 
decreasing) sum assured  or Ms G could choose to cancel it.
Ms G did not agree,  and said:
Her complaint  was initially dismissed without any consideration of the issues
This service has never put the onus on L & G to provide evidence to support its 
claims; for example how it calculated the insurance  premium
Instead the onus has been  on her to provide 14 year old documentation  to prove its 
recommendation had been faulty
Given she had just arranged the mortgage  and the advice had these details he 
knowingly sold her an excessive amount of cover
Therefore, in line with PPI compensation, she should be entitled to a full refund of all 
the premiums on this mis-sold policy
Ref: DRN42438162my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the investigator 
and for the same  reasons.  I will therefore not repeat all her arguments.
Firstly, given Ms G had arranged her mortgage, and via a different business, before agreeing 
to take out the CIC she ought  reasonably to have  known this policy was obviously optional.  If 
the advisor had implied something  different then she ought to have questioned this at the 
time.
Given her circumstances  and borrowing commitment it was not unreasonable  to recommend 
CIC to cover the mortgage  debt. However,  as L & G has now agreed it should  have been set 
up on a decreasing term basis to match the reducing mortgage  debt.
I fully understand  Ms Gs frustration that this obvious  error has only come  to light because 
she  due to the widespread coverage  of the PPI mis-selling scandal  decided  to make a 
complaint. L & G should  never have recommended this unsuitable policy.
However, this services role is limited  to putting  a complainant back  into the position  theyd 
now be in if given suitable advice in the first place. It was reasonable to recommend 
decreasing term cover  and there is no evidence to suggest Ms G would not have agreed  to 
this. This is why the correct compensation is to instruct L & G to refund the difference 
between what Ms G has paid and what she should  have paid if recommended decreasing  
term cover.
The reason  why we often  instruct a business  to refund all of a complainants PPI payments 
is because the product  was never  suitable  in any guise, and in many cases  would never 
have paid out even if the person  became  ill. This is not the case with Ms Gs CIC policy.
I also share the investigators view about  the MPI plan. It appears to dovetail with Ms Gs 
workplace cover at the time, kicking in after 12 months, so it seems  likely that there  was a 
discussion about its purpose and Ms Gs existing cover.
I recognise there has been  continuing  dispute and exchanges about  other  issues  including  
the precise cost of the policies but I have not seen sufficient evidence to safely conclude  that 
other aspects of Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld.
 
L & G must therefore calculate the difference between the premiums Ms G has paid on her 
level term CIC and what the premiums would have been on a decreasing term policy  
matched to her repayment mortgage.  It must pay these sums and add 8% simple interest 
per annum  to each  premium difference from the date each premium was paid to the date of 
settlement of this complaint.
It must then offer Ms G the choice of surrendering her policy without value or reconstructing  
it on the basis of the sum assured that would now be covered by the decreasing term policy  
it should have  recommended in the first place. The future premiums will need to match  that.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited to pay 
compensation as outlined  above.
Ref: DRN42438163Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4243816