K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  caused  them  a huge amount of 
distress in respect of mistakes made  with interest and charges on their overdraft.
background 
Mr and Mrs K held a £6,000 overdraft with Lloyds. In 2018 Lloyds changed the way it applied 
interest, and wrote to Mr and Mrs K explaining the new system. As this was going to be more 
expensive for them,  Mr and Mrs K wanted  to reduce their overdraft. So Mr K called Lloyds to 
make an arrangement. 
Between the end of 2018 and the beginning of 2019 interest and charges  were applied to Mr 
and Mrs Ks account, which shouldnt have been as this was contrary  to what  had been  
agreed. Mr K was very unhappy about this and complained. Lloyds accepted  it had made 
mistakes, and arranged  for the relevant refunds. It also apologised and paid compensation.
Unfortunately, there was more than one mistake, and Mr and Mrs K were particularly 
unhappy when  their account  was referred  to Collections, and for the letters  they 
subsequently received.  Lloyds explained that in order to avoid interest and charges, the 
account nominally  had to be in Collections, although in real terms it actually wasnt. It also 
paid further compensation. 
Ultimately, Lloyds made all the relevant refunds of interest and charges, as well as paying 
the cumulative  sum of £1,000 compensation to Mr and Mrs K. And it thought this was fair 
and reasonable to resolve matters.
But Mr and Mrs K didnt  agree, and brought their complaint to this service.  
Our investigator looked at all the evidence, and concluded that while  there had been 
genuine complaint grounds, overall Lloyds had treated Mr and Mrs K fairly in trying to 
resolve matters. Lloyds had already paid £1,000 compensation,  which he felt was sufficient, 
and it was now offering  to remove  the associated markers from Mr and Mrs Ks credit  file.. 
But Mr and Mrs K didnt  think  this was enough. They explained the enormous impact their 
dispute with Lloyds had on them. They said that for months they were worried  and upset, 
and that it had also caused  a great  deal of marital  disharmony. Mr K also explained that Mrs 
K had been  ill, and required  brain surgery. He said he believed Lloyds was responsible  for 
the deterioration in her health. 
So they didnt  accept Lloyds offer to update their credit files if matters could be resolved, 
and asked for an ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen very clearly  how strongly Mr and Mrs K feel about this matter,  and that they 
genuinely believe that their marriage,  and Mrs Ks heath, have  been  badly damaged  as a 
direct result of Lloyds mistakes and treatment of them. 
Ref: DRN41196952Im genuinely sorry to read and hear (from  the telephone calls) what  Mr and Mrs K have 
been through. I dont doubt matters  havent  been  at all easy. In particular, Mrs Ks poor-
health and requirement to have surgery.
While Ill of course take all of this evidence into account in my decision, I must  also look at 
what Lloyds had said and done, and then make my decision based on what I think  is fair to 
both parties.  
Having done that, Im afraid my decision  is going  to disappoint Mr and Mrs K. While Im 
sympathetic to their situation, theres  insufficient evidence to persuade  me that Lloyds is 
solely responsible  for their personal and health issues. Id need to be persuaded that the 
mistakes Lloyds made regarding their overdraft were the one and only reason for these 
problems. And I havent been.
Lloyds did make some mistakes, but I think its important to note that none of these were  
made maliciously or recklessly. And I think its also important  to recognise that it acted in 
good faith in trying to fix its mistakes once it became aware of them. Albeit this happened 
more than once,  on each occasion I see that it acknowledged its mistake,  apologised, and 
made good in a fair and timely fashion. 
Overall, Mr and Mrs K have received £1,000  compensation from Lloyds. And while  I accept 
their genuine  belief that this isnt sufficient to make up for what  theyve been through, Im 
afraid I cant agree. While not seeking  to diminish  their strength of feeling,  and the facts  of 
whats happened to them, my view is that Lloyds has been generous and that £1,000 is 
probably more than Id have  directed  in compensation of this complaint if none had already 
been paid. 
Our service is an informal alternative to the courts, and our awards  tend to be more modest 
than the sums a judge might arrive at. What  I can assure Mr and Mrs K is that relative to the 
types of cases we see, and the level of awards we make, what  theyve already been  paid in 
this complaint is a fair deal. 
So I wont  be asking Lloyds to pay any more. But I do agree that to fully resolve  matters  it 
should clear the relevant markers  from Mr and Mrs Ks credit files. I think this, with the 
money already  paid,  is a fair and reasonable resolution to the complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  the complaint, to the extent that Lloyds Bank  PLC 
should remove any relevant markers  from Mr and Mrs Ks credit file. Im not directing that 
any further compensation be paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4119695