K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the redemption  of Mr and Mrs Ls former mortgage, which was 
administered by Hampton Mortgage Servicing Limited. Theyre unhappy that Hampton asked 
them for another £3,000  seven months  after they thought theyd paid the mortgage off.
background
Mr and Mrs L had a mortgage with a lender Ill call P; Hampton administers the mortgage on 
Ps behalf. Mr and Mrs L decided to move the mortgage to a new lender, which Ill call C. 
C instructed a firm of solicitors called  E do complete the legal work for the re-mortgage.
E asked  Hampton how much Mr and Mrs L needed  to repay  P; Hampton sent it the relevant 
figure, broken  down  into three components. These were:
an outstanding  mortgage balance of around £66,600;
a fee of £180; and
interest of just over £3,000.
About seven months later, Hampton  wrote  to Mr and Mrs L to say the £3,000 or so of 
interest was still owed. Mr and Mrs L think its unfair to expect them  pay the money  after so 
long. Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should succeed; Mr and Mrs L would like 
their complaint reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
news for Mr and Mrs L; Hampton hasnt  done  anything wrong.
Hampton was asked  for, and provided,  full details of how much Mr and Mrs L owed on their 
mortgage with P. It didnt  get the figures wrong  or try to mislead anyone and theres no 
suggestion of a delay. It provided  the information  it was asked for, but for reasons that lie 
beyond the remit  of this investigation, the full amount wasnt received.
Theres nothing to suggest the outstanding £3,000-plus isnt genuinely owed,  so its perfectly 
fair and reasonable that Hampton should look to Mr and Mrs L to pay it. I know they feel 
aggrieved that it took seven months  for this to happen, but to put that in context, the law 
allows up to twelve years for a lender to pursue  an unpaid debt (albeit its widely  accepted 
that a maximum six years  is good  practice). 
I cant consider the role of E in this. We dont consider complaint against firm of solicitors,  
but there is another scheme  that does,  if Mr and Mrs L wanted to do that. Its not for me to 
say they should or should make a complaint against E, and nothing I say here should  be 
taken as pre-empting the outcome of such a complaint, if one were  made. My role is to 
decide if Hampton  has treated Mr and Mrs L unfairly, and for the reasons Ive set out, it 
hasnt.
Ref: DRN48452042my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 November  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4845204