K820x#14complaint
Mr L says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1993 Mr L took out a mortgage  with Lloyds (which was trading as TSB at the time). 
Around the same time, he took out a PPI policy to protect his monthly mortgage payments if 
he was unable to work  due to accident,  sickness or unemployment. If Mr L had made  a 
successful claim  on the policy, it would have paid his monthly  mortgage  payments. And its 
likely that it would have  done this for up to 12 months per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ls case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ls mortgage application.  Although the copy is poor quality, I can 
see that it looks like the same  type of application form that Ive seen before, which  
included clear, equally prominent options  to take or decline MortgageSure  (a form of 
PPI). And it looks as if the box was ticked to take PPI. I think Lloyds made  Mr L aware 
that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it.
Mr L says he cant  remember whether Lloyds gave him advice or recommended that he 
take out the insurance. Lloyds says the sale took place  in one of its branches,  and that 
advice would have  been given. For the purposes of this decision, Ive assumed that to be 
the case, as it means that Lloyds  had a responsibility to check  that the PPI was suitable 
for Mr L. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time.
I acknowledge that Mr Ls told us that he was self-employed when he took the policy  out. 
Lloyds hasnt been able to provide a copy of the policy document  that was in use when 
Mr L took out the policy. So Ive considered  the oldest available policy document, which 
is from 1998. I think its likely that the terms and conditions  of the policy  were  broadly 
similar to the one sold to Mr L. Some policies weve seen  include  provisions  that make it 
more difficult for a self-employed person to claim. But Im satisfied that this one didnt. So 
on balance, I dont think that the fact that Mr L was self-employed  made  the policy 
unsuitable for him.
Ref: DRN44448832Ive also borne in mind that as a self-employed person, Mr L wouldnt have been entitled 
to any sick pay or redundancy  pay. The mortgage was a long-term financial commitment,  
and his property would  have been at risk if he didnt keep up with his mortgage 
payments. So I think the policy could have  been  useful for Mr L.
The cost of the policy was shown clearly  on the mortgage offer.  So I think Mr L would 
have understood  how much  hed need to pay for it. And as he was paying for the policy 
monthly, he could have cancelled it at any time if he no longer  needed  it.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But based on 
what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, its unlikely  Mr L would  have been  
affected by any of these.  So I dont think better information about  the policy would have 
put him off taking  it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4444883