K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
Black Horse  Limited was not of satisfactory  quality. He wants to reject the vehicle and end 
the agreement.
background
Mr M tells us he acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill call V in May 2017. He says hes had 
issues with the vehicle from the time he obtained it. He reports  that there was damage  to the 
tow bar/bumper;  a door seal was torn; the wrong locking nut had been  supplied and the 
spare key wasnt correctly coded. Mr M says he reported the problems  with the tow bar 
within a week and V repaired this. But he says the bumper is now sagging  due to the repairs.  
And he states the vehicle failed a MOT in April 2018 due to a taped live wire. He thinks the 
vehicle was overpriced by around £3,000. Hes subsequently complained  that the reverse 
camera doesnt work.
Black Horse  told us that a report by an independent  vehicle  examiner, a company Ill refer to 
as D, had confirmed the repairs to the bumper had been carried  out to a satisfactory 
standard. And it said the loose wire and torn door strip would  not have been present at the 
point of supply.  It said the dealer had offered to supply a new locking  nut and have the spare  
key correctly coded at no cost to Mr M.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said Ds report had 
concluded the repairs to the tow bar/bumper had been completed to a satisfactory standard. 
She said D had reported  that the torn window seal was wear  and tear. She thought  the offer 
to code the spare key and replace the locking  nut was fair. And she didnt think Black Horse 
had done anything wrong in relation to the cost of the vehicle as Mr M had agreed the 
purchase price.
Mr M didnt  agree and as its not been  possible to resolve the complaint an ombudsman  has 
been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr M has experienced problems with this vehicle. But theres  always the risk 
with older,  used vehicles that something will go wrong.
Mr Ms hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. Black  Horse  supplied the vehicle and its 
therefore responsible for a complaint about the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the 
law - directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights 
Act of 2015 (CRA).
Briefly summarised, the CRA says that in order to conform to contract, goods must  be of 
satisfactory quality at the time of supply. At the time he acquired the vehicle it was around 
five years old with a recorded mileage of 33,562.
Ref: DRN48338392Mr M told us - and I accept - that he reported issues with the tow bar/bumper shortly  after 
acquiring the vehicle. It seems V repaired these by cutting  the tow bar and removing some of 
the fittings.
In April 2018 the vehicle failed an MOT which appears to have  prompted  Mr M to complain 
to Black Horse. The MOT  failure was attributed  to bare wires relating to the tow bar being 
exposed and a headlamp  not working.  I note that the vehicle passed the MOT later the same 
day, so I infer that repairs were done  immediately.  
Following the complaint,  an inspection was carried out on the vehicle  by an independent 
vehicle examiner, a company Ill refer to as D. I can see that D carried  out its inspection of 
the vehicle on 4 July 2018. The mileage at this time is recorded  as 45,089. D reported that 
the rear bumper/tow bar repair  had been  carried out to a satisfactory standard.  It said the 
tear to the offside front door seal was due to wear and tear. It confirmed the spare key didnt 
work and required  re-coding.
Subsequently, Black  Horse agreed that the spare  key and locking nut issues  would have 
been present  at the point  of supply and said V would replace these free of charge. And it 
offered £100 to Mr M for the trouble and upset caused. I think  this was a fair and reasonable 
resolution of this aspect  of the complaint.
Mr M has since complained about  the reverse camera not working and issues with the gear 
stick. But Ive not seen any information  which shows these faults were present at the point of 
supply. Given that these faults seem to have only arisen more than 18 months after Mr M 
acquired the vehicle the most  probably explanation is that they are wear and tear issues.
I note that the vehicle  failed but later passed  an MOT in June 2019. The mileage at this time 
is recorded as 54,599.  Since Mr M acquired  the vehicle and notwithstanding the faults which  
have been identified, the vehicle has covered  more  than 20,000 miles. Its unlikely the 
vehicle could have  travelled this distance  if the issues had seriously  impacted on its overall 
performance.
So far as the cost of the vehicle is concerned,  Mr M agreed to this at the time of supply. Ive 
not seen anything to suggest  he was misled or that the price agreed was other than that 
stated in the agreement.
In summary,  I think that there were faults  present at the point of supply. But not every fault 
means that goods  are not of satisfactory quality  and therefore dont conform to contract. The 
most serious  fault with the tow bar was repaired to a satisfactory  standard.  And 
replacements have  been offered or supplied  with regard  to the spare  key and locking  nut. 
Other issues  with the vehicle are probably  due to expected wear and tear. 
I dont think it would  be fair and reasonable of me to conclude that Mr M should  now be 
permitted to reject the vehicle. And whilst I know it will come  as a disappointment  to him, Im 
not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN48338393Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4833839