K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Bank  of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold him a monthly premium mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr B was sold a MPPI policy in 1998  during a meeting. The PPI would have provided a 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mr B was off work sick or lost his job.
In 1999, the policy taken  out in 1998 was cancelled and Mr B was sold another  PPI policy.  
This policy would  have provided  a monthly benefit for up to 24 months  per claim if Mr B was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Bs complaint should  be upheld. Mr B didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr B was eligible under  the policy.  Based on Mr Bs age 
and employment  at the time of the sales, Im satisfied he was eligible.
BoS had to make it clear  to Mr B that the MPPI was optional and needed his consent  before 
it could be applied to Mr Bs account. Mr B says when MPPI was mentioned  he said he did 
not want to take it. He is annoyed that it was added to his finances.
I cant know for sure what took place  during  the sale. So Ive thought about what Mr B and 
Lloyds have told us and have considered the documents from the time of the sale to help me 
decide how it is more  likely MPPI was presented to Mr B.
In particular, I note that there was a separate  section  for MPPI on the mortgage application 
form Mr B completed in 1998.  Mr B was provided with a choice as to whether  to take MPPI. 
If he wanted to take it then he would have had to sign this section. I note that Mr B did sign 
this section.
Ive also seen copies  of the MPPI application  forms  completed separately  to the actual 
mortgage application  from both 1998  and 1999.  There is nothing  on this forms which  
suggests that PPI was compulsory. Mr B signed  these  forms. I also note that Mr B wrote  to 
BoS a few months after the first MPPI  application to query the amount of benefit.  There  was 
no mention in this that he did not want to take MPPI. 
So all in all, I think BoS made it clear  to Mr B that MPPI was optional  and that it was only 
applied to his account because he chose  to take it out.
Ref: DRN45701982BoS accept they advised  Mr B to take MPPI. This means they had to check  it was suitable  
for Mr B. I dont  know if BoS took all the steps  they should have to check if the MPPI was 
suitable for Mr B but I do think the policy  was suitable for Mr B. I say this because:
-The MPPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Bs employee sick pay and 
redundancy pay and for a much longer  period of time. I appreciate that Mr B had an 
income protection policy at work. However, he chose to take MPPI  despite his 
existing repayment  provisions. The income  protection policy  would have provided  a 
percentage of his income as a benefit  which would mean that there was a shortfall  in 
his income which the MPPI could have filled. It also wouldnt have started to provide 
a benefit until 6 months had passed.  Further it wouldnt have covered Mr B in the 
event that he was made redundant. So I can understand why Mr B would have 
chosen to take MPPI despite his existing provisions and I dont think his existing  
repayment provisions  meant MPPI was unsuitable for him.
-Mr B says his parents could have helped meet the repayments. But circumstances 
can change and this help could not be guaranteed  if and when it was needed.  
Ultimately the mortgage was in Mr Bs name alone and his parents werent legally 
obliged to meet the repayments.  
-Mr B doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which  would 
have made it difficult for him to make  a successful claim  under the policy.
-The MPPI was reasonably priced  and provided  a valuable benefit  in comparison to its 
cost. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the PPI was unaffordable  for Mr B. 
-I note the point Mr B makes about what he feels was excessive cover and the unfair  
method he says BoS used to work out inflated levels of cover for consumers.  Mr Bs 
argument is that he should only have  been  paying for £500 worth of cover as this 
adequately covered  his mortgage repayment and related expenses. I am not aware  
of the rounding up method Mr B has described and nor do I have  information  about 
exactly what figures BoS took into account when arriving  at the recommended 
monthly benefit figure given the length  of time since the sale.  But in any event I dont 
think that the cost compared to the additional  cover provided meant that the policy 
was unsuitable  for Mr B. Mr B was made aware  of the cost and benefit at the time of 
the sale. The benefit allowed for a maximum of 50% extra  on top of the mortgage 
repayment to cover  mortgage related  expenses  and it seems the policy  would have 
paid out the recommended level of benefit. I appreciate Mr B chose to reduce the 
amount of monthly benefit when he was informed of the increase in the price  of the 
policy but this does not mean  that the amount of benefit recommended by BoS 
wasnt suitable for Mr B at the point at which he chose to take it out and I dont have 
sufficient evidence  to conclude that it wasnt suitable.
-Mr B could  have cancelled the MPPI  at any time without losing out financially  if he no 
longer wanted  or needed it.
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable  for Mr B, BoS also had to give him clear  
information about the MPPI  in particular about  the costs, benefits  and main exclusions in 
the policy  so that he could make an informed decision about whether or not to take it out.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr B wasnt as clear  as it should have been but this in 
itself doesnt mean  the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better 
Ref: DRN45701983information would have put him off taking  it out. And I dont think  it would have. I say this for 
the same  reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for him.
So having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr B this MPPI 
policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against  Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4570198