K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) have unfairly 
refused to meet a claim on their home  insurance policy for their wall being  hit by a vehicle.
Background
After Mr and Mrs S returned from holiday, they found some  damage to the outside wall of 
their house  that they thought was caused  by a vehicle impact.
A claim  was opened, and LV sent a loss adjuster,  C, to look at the damage. C reported there 
were marks  which  could  have been caused by a vehicle, but the damage  to the wall in the 
impact area was old. They had concerns regarding a vertical  crack in the wall which 
Mr and Mrs S said had been opened by the impact. C suspected this may have been  caused 
by subsidence,  so LV sent an engineer, K, to inspect this.
C reported to LV that in their opinion, although there were marks to the wall which could 
indicate impact, the damage at that area was old and the wall in general was displaying 
signs of wear and tear and in need of maintenance.
K reported that the large  vertical crack they had been asked to assess was not caused by 
subsidence, was old and probably caused by thermal movement and normal  wear  and tear.
As a result of the reports by C and K, LV declined the claim on the basis  that the damage 
was probably old and caused  by wear and tear. 
Mr and Mrs S did not accept this, and complained  to LV about their decision, and the length 
of time their assessment of the claim had taken. LV responded by confirming the claim was 
rejected as the damage had been  identified as wear  and tear, and that was part of the 
general exclusions of the policy. They also couldnt identify unnecessary delays or failings in 
their service  levels.
Mr and Mrs S did not agree so complained to us.
The investigator sent a comprehensive  reply to Mr and Mrs S and LV which I dont propose 
to repeat.  In summary she thought, on balance, LV acted fairly  in concluding the damage 
caused to the wall was old and due to wear and tear, and so it was reasonable for them to 
decline the claim. She thought this as LV had based  their decision on the evidence  of two 
professionals who were of the opinion that the damage was old, due to wear and tear and 
not primarily caused by impact. 
She also considered  the process  LV followed and the length  of time the claim took to be 
decided, and was of the view that it was reasonable and there hadnt been any unnecessary  
delays.
Mr and Mrs S did not agree with the investigators views and presented a large amount of 
evidence in the form of recordings of telephone conversations, photographs and copies of 
their correspondence  with LV, C and K. The matter has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN44474102My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have  made a number  of detailed points and provided a lot of evidence and I 
have looked at it all. Were an informal dispute  resolution service, set up as a free alternative 
to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focussed  on what I consider to be the heart of 
the matter, rather than commenting on every  issue in turn. This isnt intended  as a 
discourtesy to Mr and Mrs S. Rather  it reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit 
and my role in it.
Having considered everything  presented,  I agree with the investigators  view, for broadly the 
same reasons. I understand Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed by my decision,  as LVs 
decision to meet their claim  is clearly  an important matter of principle to them. Ill explain why 
I have come to this conclusion.
I think it is important to explain the remits and roles carried out by the two experts appointed 
by LV in this case. C were  asked by LV to assess the claim in the first instance. They noted 
the impact area and formed their opinion regarding the damage in this area. They  noted  
damage away from the suspected point of impact  (the large vertical crack) which 
Mr and Mrs S said had opened up as a result  of the impact,  and C were concerned that this 
may have  been  caused by subsidence. They asked  LV to appoint  a relevant expert in this 
field (K) to determine if there was subsidence present which  could have caused this 
particular crack. I will cover both Cs and Ks opinions  on the damage and its cause later.
In making this insurance claim, there are three points that Mr and Mrs S needed  to show  
were likely to be present for this claim to be successful.
Was there an incident or peril?
Was this peril covered by the insurance policy?
Was there damage, and if so, was the dominant  cause  of the damage the impact?
If all these points were  present, then there  was a claim. And it would be for LV to show, if 
they were to decline the claim, that the cause of the damage was excluded  by one of the 
policy terms and conditions.
In coming to my decision that LV have acted fairly in this case, I have considered  each point.
Was there an incident and was this covered by the insurance policy?
There is no dispute that there were some black scuff marks on the wall. These  are shown in 
photographs and are mentioned by C. Mr and Mrs S are of the opinion  that these were  
caused by a passing vehicle. This seems  a reasonable conclusion given cars can drive by at 
that point, and they seem similar to marks that cars leave  in similar circumstances, such as 
having scuffed  car park walls. So, I think it is reasonable to think  there  was an incident  
(vehicle impact) and having  checked  the policy, this is covered by the insurance.
Was there damage, and if so, was the dominant  cause  of the damage the impact?
C examined both the impact area and the large vertical  crack and took photographs  of both 
which they annotated in their report. In relation  to the impact  area,  in summary, they thought  
Ref: DRN44474103both the paintwork and brickwork  were  in poor condition.  They  noted new marks on the wall 
which were possibly caused by a new impact, but the damage  around them  pre-existed  that 
impact. They  thought  the vertical crack was old as the edges were  softened  by age and long 
exposure to weather, the paint was peeling and there was paint inside its surface indicating it 
was open the last time the wall was painted.  C also said they had compared  a google  street  
view image from 2016  to the ones they took and were of the opinion the vertical crack  and 
the scarring at the impact  point were visible in the first image, so couldnt  have been new.
K examined  this vertical crack  and ruled out subsidence. They believed this crack was not 
caused by any recent  impact and was old. Their conclusion was it was caused  by thermal 
movement and normal wear and tear. They based this opinion  on the crack being blackened 
with dirt and weathered. They also thought the same crack was visible on the 2016 google  
street view image. 
Was it fair to decline the claim?
There are a number of photographs in this case,  taken by C, K and Mr and Mrs S. I have 
examined them all, and read in detail the reports from C and K. I am aware that 
Mr and Mrs S have  questioned the credentials  and experience of C but I do not think  there  is 
any persuasive argument for me to discount Cs opinion, especially where this opinion is 
supported independently,  by the second  appointed  expert,  K. Mr and Mrs S might not agree 
with what they have said, but LV have  relied on their evidence when considering the claim.  
This is a reasonable thing to do, especially as there was no countering  expert opinion.
On balance, I think the decision that LV have  come to, that the damage  visible  was caused  
by wear and tear and not the impact, was fair, and so it was reasonable for them to decline 
the claim.
There is another aspect  to this complaint which I will comment on, as it caused Mr and Mrs S 
to question the opinion of K as they thought it had changed over time. Mr and Mrs S were 
sure, in their recollection of Ks visit, that he concluded by saying that there was no evidence 
of subsidence,  but repairs to the impact area could go ahead. They  understood this to mean 
K was authorising  the repair under the insurance,  so were surprised and disappointed to 
hear later that this was not the case.  Having looked at all the correspondence, and taking 
into account Ks remit, I think its likely Mr and Mrs S misunderstood what  was said here. I 
think that K, having  established there was no subsidence, which  was all he was asked to 
check, said C could  carry on with the work on the impact  area.  And so, on balance, I dont 
think K was commenting  on the validity of the claim,  just allowing it to continue  having 
confirmed there was no subsidence.
Mr and Mrs S have  also requested all the information held on them  by LV under a subject 
access request. LV have said they have  sent everything to them, but Mr and Mrs S suspect 
that some  has been retained.  I would  direct Mr and Mrs S to the Information Commissioners 
Office (https://ico.org.uk) should they wish to take this matter  further.
Ref: DRN44474104As I have said, Im aware Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed by my decision, but as a result 
of the above, I do not require LV to do anything more.
My final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 March  2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4447410