K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage which, until recently Mr L and Mrs D held with 
Santander UK Plc. Theyre  unhappy  at having to pay an early  repayment charge (ERC) 
when they sold their property (thus redeeming the mortgage) and bought a new house that 
Santander decided  wasnt acceptable  security. 
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding the numbers  involved. No discourtesys 
intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont  mention  
something, it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr L and Mrs D when my 
decision is published.
Mr L and Mrs Ds mortgage with Santander was on a fixed  rate, running for two years until 
2 August 2019.  In late 2018, Mr L and Mrs D wanted  to move home. A new application  was 
made for a new property,  and approved. However, Mr L and Mrs D then decided  to buy a 
different property. Unfortunately, the new property  was in a block on which  Santander had 
already reached  its exposure limit; that is where a lender decided  for risk purposes to restrict 
the number of mortgages it provides  on properties in one development.
Mr L and Mrs D hadnt yet exchanged  contracts on the purchase, but they had on their sale.  
Rather than find another new property on which Santander would lend, they obtained the 
mortgage they needed from another  lender,  and completed their purchase.  However, this 
meant they paid an ERC of about  £6,000  on redeeming the Santander mortgage. 
Mr L and Mrs D believe they were  misled and wouldnt have gone ahead with the transaction 
if theyd been  correctly informed. Santander rejected  the complaint, and when it came to us, 
our investigator didnt think Santander  had done anything wrong. Mr L and Mrs D have  
asked for their complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint.. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN46654682As a starting point,  no one is entitled to borrow money; even where a lender has lent before,  
its not obliged  to do so again.  But a lender must  treat customers fairly. In the context of an 
application for lending, that means assessing it fairly  in accordance  with the banks lending  
criteria. Lenders criteria  are commercially  sensitive and not generally made public. Also,  
generally speaking,  its not the role of an ombudsman to interfere with a lenders commercial 
judgement on whether  (and how much) it will lend, and I see no reason to depart from that 
position here. 
As far as the ERC itself was concerned, Mr L and Mrs D redeemed  the existing mortgage 
during the period for which it applied, so it was payable in accordance  with the underlying 
contract between them  and Santander.  What  I must  next consider is whether Santander 
misled Mr L and Mrs D into believing a new mortgage was assured, such  that porting  the 
fixed rate to it and getting the ERC back was guaranteed to happen
It seems  to me that this is the very gist of the complaint,  so Ive looked very hard at all of the 
relevant evidence to decide if there  was any error  (or even ambiguity) in what Santander  told 
Mr L and Mrs D. Ill start with the written  information,  which was in the offer for the fixed rate 
deal that was in force when they redeemed the mortgage.
The relevant  information is in section  10, and I reproduce it below:
If you move  house you may be able to transfer this mortgage to a new property you 
are buying.  You must meet the conditions  set out in the mortgage  conditions booklet 
under 'Transferring your loan to a new mortgage'. You must also meet our lending  
criteria and pass our affordability assessment at that time.
I dont find there to be any ambiguity in that narrative.  It let Mr L and Mrs D know that porting 
is a possibility (not a certainty)  and that to achieve it, theyd have to make a fresh  mortgage  
application which would be subject to assessment against Santanders lending  criteria in 
force at the time of the application.  Affordability is mentioned expressly  as being one of the 
criteria.
Ive next considered whether Santander  said anything  in the emails provided that could 
contradict the written  offer.  There are several, but they key one to which Mr L and Mrs D 
have drawn particular attention is dated  25 January 2019, in which  the mortgage advisor 
said:
You can still port your mortgage so long as you complete  on the new property within 
3 months of you old mortgage  being closed and the early penalty charge will be 
refunded back to you.
Mr L and Mrs D say that on the strength of this, they exchanged  on their sale. Ive thought 
hard about that, but I dont think it changes  things. It simply referenced the provision in the 
existing mortgage  contract that allowed a borrower  who has repaid their mortgage (and paid 
an ERC) to have the ERC refunded  if a subsequent  new mortgage  to which  the existing 
product has been  ported  completes within three months of redemption.  It doesnt amount to 
a promise or a guarantee that a new mortgage  will be forthcoming.
Santander was slow to let Mr L and Mrs D know about the exposure restriction  on their new 
property, once it was aware of the problem. Its paid them £100  in compensation for that 
delay, but I dont think it need  do any more,  chiefly because  I dont  find that the delay 
Ref: DRN46654683changed anything. Mr L and Mrs D had already exchanged on their sale, without having  first 
received a mortgage offer on the new purchase, to which  they werent yet committed.
The new purchase  was well-advanced,  and I understand  why Mr L and Mrs D decided  that 
continuing with it was less disruptive than starting  again to find a property on which 
Santander could  lend. They also had to deal with this at the same time as a family 
bereavement, but of course Santander  couldnt  have foreseen that. Ultimately, the decision 
to redeem was Mr L and Mrs Ds choice to do that, and its possible they avoided  other  
abortive costs by doing so. But they made  that choice knowing that it would mean  theyd 
incur the ERC.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4665468