K820x#14complaint
Mr M, on behalf  of his business HC, says HSBC UK Bank Plc incorrectly dealt  with his scam 
complaint as a dispute between a buyer and a seller. He feels  he missed out on his funds  
being recovered because of this error.
background
Mr M found a company  to build a website  for his business. On 5 September 2018, he sent 
an initial payment  of £4,200 by online transfer  and spoke with the company on a number of 
occasions. After seeing  a preview of what had been built so far, Mr M then sent the final 
payment of £4,200 on 28 September 2018. After  that point almost all contact from the 
company stopped. 
Mr M felt that he had been scammed out of his £8,400 as he didnt have  access  to a working  
website that he could use for his business.  On 16 October 2018, Mr M raised  a scam 
complaint with HSBC.  Mr M says HSBC gave conflicting information about  how they would 
deal with his complaint. On 30 October, HSBC issued its final response  to Mr M stating that 
they considered  it to be a dispute between a buyer  and a seller, and therefore a civil matter  
and wouldnt  pursue the company for a refund. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service.  Our adjudicator  also felt that as the company    
Mr M hired  had completed a partial  website,  this appeared  to be a dispute between himself  
and the company. And she didnt feel this amounted  to a scam, so she agreed that HSBC 
had acted reasonably in the circumstances. Mr M disagreed  with this outcome so the 
complaint was referred to myself. 
I wrote  a provisional decision in which I agreed that with hindsight,  this was most  likely a 
scam. But I still felt that it wasnt  unreasonable for HSBC to have dealt with Mr Ms complaint 
at the time as a buyer/seller dispute  based  on the information available to them.  I also felt 
that had the complaint been  dealt with correctly by HSBC, its more likely  they couldnt  have 
recovered the funds from the beneficiary bank.  My provisional decision read as follows:
Based on what Ive seen  so far, I do think its more likely  Mr M was scammed  out of his 
£8,400. So, Ive considered whether or not HSBC should have treated his complaint as a 
scam based on the information, they had available to them; and if so, if that would have led 
to Mr Ms funds  being recovered.
Ive listened to the telephone call in which Mr M first reported the scam. In this, he explained  
that he believed  he had given money  to a fraudulent company. He said that he had found 
forums online in which they warn against  the company  and the website that he found 
recommendations for the company on. He said it seemed to be an elaborate scam in which 
the scammer  had also created a fake recommendation website to further  spread  news of his
scam companies.
Mr M also said that after a few weeks of talking with the company, he filled in a form 
describing what he wanted the website  to look like and sent them  the initial payment of 
£4,200. After a few weeks they sent him a link to show what  they had done  so far, but he felt 
what they had done up to that point was quite  basic. There  were  relevant pictures  on the 
website for his product and the functionality worked,  but he didnt  think they had done as 
much work as he had expected. He said the owner  of the company reassured  him that a lot 
of the work they had done was in the coding behind the website. They made  some  
Ref: DRN49517182superficial changes that Mr M requested, and he paid the final payment of £4,200. Mr M said 
that was around  five weeks ago and very little progress had been  made  since  then. During  
the call, Mr M said he was still in communication with the company and hadnt yet confronted
them about  them being  a scam company.
Based on this conversation, the HSBC  fraud  team wrote to Mr M the same day to explain 
that this appeared to be a dispute between himself and the seller. Therefore, it was a civil 
matter and not one they could get involved  in. They recommended that Mr M raise his 
dispute directly with the company.
Ive considered whether this was a reasonable response from HSBC  at that time based on 
the information they had available to them. Mr M had raised concerns that comments  on 
online forums warned this company was part of a scam. But hes also said he remained in 
some form of communication and had been communicating  with the company for several 
weeks at that point. And they had shown  him part of a product that they had created for his 
specific company. These appeared  to be the actions of a legitimate  company providing a 
product; though I do understand Mr Ms point that receiving a link for a website and owning 
the website domain are two different things. Just because he was given a link does not 
mean Mr M was able to use that website for his business.
From what  Mr M has said, at that point in time,  the companys actions didnt line up with 
what you would typically see from a scammer.  To give some  context;  from my experience a 
scammer normally wont provide any kind of goods or service  in return  for funds.  And most 
of the time, as soon as they receive  the money, theyll  cut all contact and remove  all the 
funds from their bank account  as quickly as possible. But it seems  they had provided  
something in line with what had been requested,  albeit something very basic,  and they 
remained in communication with Mr M. So, I think that at that stage,  HSBCs  decision to treat 
this as a dispute between  a buyer  and a seller was reasonable in the circumstances.
At that point, had HSBC agreed  with Mr M and treated the transaction  as a scam payment, 
they would  have contacted the beneficiary bank (the scammers bank)  and requested a 
return of the funds. But this would have  been  on a best endeavours basis, meaning there  
was no guarantee  of a return of the funds. It would depend on whether the beneficiary bank 
agreed it was a fraudulent transaction and if the funds  were  remaining in the account.
Having spoken  to the beneficiary bank, they said that at that time they had no concerns 
about the beneficiary bank account.  It appeared as though the company was using  it as a 
legitimate business  account, and it didnt have the hallmarks of a scammers account.  So, it 
also seems more likely that had HSBC contacted the beneficiary bank to request a refund, 
the beneficiary bank  wouldnt have provided one.
While I think its more likely that this was an intricate scam designed to allow the scammers  
to operate over a long period of time without detection, the reason I think  this is due to 
hindsight and the ability to look at a broad  spectrum of evidence  from multiple  parties over a 
long period of time. But as explained above,  based on what  Ive seen so far, I think  that 
HSBC came to a reasonable outcome when it treated  the complaint as a dispute between  a 
buyer and a seller.  So, I dont currently think  it needed  to do more  in the circumstances to try
and recover Mr Ms funds.  But even  if it had, I also dont think  the funds would  have been
returned by the beneficiary bank.
Ref: DRN49517183HSB had no further comments in response  to my provisional decision. Mr M responded and 
said the following:
He did not speak to a receptionist,  the woman said she was a web designer  and 
seemed convincing.
When he contacted  HSBC about  the scam, he also contacted the beneficiary bank 
who said they would return the funds when  HSBC reported it as fraud.  But because 
HSBC never reported it, the funds were not recovered.
Mr M reiterated  that this was not a dispute  between a buyer and seller and instead 
was a scam as he never received a product or service.
This matter is still being investigated  by Action Fraud and the police, so it is being 
taken seriously. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr M for taking  the time to respond to my provisional decision with additional  
comments for me to consider. Ive thought  about  what he has said, but his points havent 
changed my mind from what I wrote in the provisional decision and Ive had no additional 
evidence presented to consider. 
Id like to assure Mr M that I understand the seriousness of this complaint, as Mr M has been 
the victim of a scam and lost money  as a result. And I apologise if my provisional decision 
wasnt fully accurate on some of the finer details. 
Having carefully considered all the information  available to me, I still think  its more likely that 
had HSBC treated  Mr Ms complaint as a scam,  that his funds could not have been  
recovered, as I set out in my provisional decision above. While  I appreciate  Mr Ms 
comments that the beneficiary bank told him his funds would be returned,  Ive based my 
decision on the statements and notes provided  by the beneficiary  bank and the wider  
information on the case. Having looked  over everything,  I dont think HSBC now needs  to 
refund Mr M. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M and Im sorry hes had to go 
through this experience. But I dont think HSBC  needs to do more in the circumstances.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4951718