K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain  that Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy with a loan in 1987.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Vs signed application for a secured  home  improvement loan. 
Theres a section in this headed  Payment Protection Insurance. The different amounts of 
cover required  for Mr V and for Mrs V have been  entered in the boxes provided for this. I can 
also see that theres a box which has been  left blank that could have  been  crossed  if no PPI 
cover was wanted.
Mr and Mrs V say that they were pressurised into taking out the PPI policy,  as it was implied 
that they needed it to get their loan. But I need  to bear in mind that this sale took place a 
very long time ago. And understandably,  their recollection of what happened then doesnt 
seem to be particularly strong. So I dont  think I could  conclude that unfair  pressure was 
placed upon them to take the PPI, based  solely on what they think they remember 
happening then.
On balance, and based on everything  Ive seen and been told, I think its most likely  that 
B&B made it clear to Mr and Mrs V that the PPI was optional and that they actively  decided 
to take it. But I can understand why they might not remember this now.
Mr and Mrs V say that B&B recommended that they take out the PPI, although  B&B says no 
advice would have  been given to them.  I cant  be certain  whether  or not this was an advised 
sale. But Ive assumed that it was, because this means that B&B needed to make  sure the 
policy was suitable  for them. As theres no record of the discussion with Mr and Mrs V, I 
cant know how it did this. But from what I know about Mr and Mrs Vs circumstances  at the 
time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable.  I say this because:
Mr and Mrs V both appear to have  been eligible for the policy  and not affected by any of 
its main exclusions or limitations.
Mr and Mrs V say they didnt need  PPI because they were both eligible for generous  sick 
pay from their employers  and also had some savings they could have used to make their 
monthly repayments if one of them  was unable to work. But the policy would have paid 
out in addition to any other means they might have had available to them. And it would 
have paid out for up to twenty  four months  in the event of unemployment and until a 
return to work in the case of an accident or sickness.  So I still think that Mr and Mrs V 
would have valued the extra security  which the PPI gave  them if things went  wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs V. And as the 
premiums were  paid monthly,  it could  be cancelled if it no longer met their needs.
Ref: DRN40210252B&B also needed  to ensure that Mr and Mrs V were  given  enough  information  about the PPI 
policy to make up their own minds about whether  they wanted it. I think  its possible that the 
information B&B gave  them could  have been  better than it was. But for much the same 
reasons that I dont  think the policy was unsuitable  for them,  I dont think  better  information  
would have changed their minds  about  taking it out. I think  theyd  still have thought it gave 
them useful cover at an affordable  price.
So I dont  think that Mr and Mrs V have lost out by anything that B&B may have done wrong 
when it sold them this PPI policy. Which means  B&B doesnt have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr and Mrs V. But B&B has offered  to pay back  some of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs V because: 
B&B got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs V about that. Because B&B didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs V, that was unfair. 
To put that right, B&B have basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
B&B has to pay back to Mr and Mrs V any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. B&B should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs V any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
B&B should  pay back to Mr and Mrs V the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. B&B should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs V 8%* simple interest  on each payment (15% on payments before 
April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs V can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford and Bingley Plc doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs V. 
But Bradford  and Bingley Plc does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs V any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 August 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4021025