K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that the vehicle she acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  
by Advantage  Finance Ltd was not of satisfactory  quality. She wants  to reject the vehicle and 
end the agreement.
background
Mrs H tells us she acquired the vehicle through  a dealer Ill refer to as G in April 2018. She 
says an oil leak was identified before she took possession of the vehicle. But she states that, 
despite G promising  it would fix the leak before she collected it, further damage occurred 
during the repairs  when  the timing chain  snapped. This meant the vehicle wasnt  repaired 
until around 21 May 2018. Immediately afterwards she says a compression check  showed  
that oil had leaked into the injectors and more repairs were needed. And as a result  the 
vehicle wasnt available  for use until early August 2018 after it had been independently 
inspected. In August 2018 Mrs H reported further issues  with the exhaust. And in September 
2018 she says more problems arose with the engine management  light illuminating; the 
vehicle running  erratically on idle and the exhaust  emitting smoke. She says she had a 
diagnostics test done by a garage firm Ill call A. She states this showed  various  fault codes 
and a fault with a sensor. Even after her husband replaced the sensor  she says the 
diagnostic test showed the engine  management light came  back  on. And that the test 
confirmed the vehicle was emitting  smoke from the exhaust. Mrs H says she told Advantage 
at this stage she wished to reject  the vehicle.
Advantage told us the vehicle had been  repaired and it had arranged  for an independent  
inspection to be carried out a company Ill refer to as S. It said this inspection revealed that 
the repairs had been carried out to industry standards and the vehicle was now fit for 
purpose and of satisfactory quality.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He said that various issues 
with the vehicle had been repaired by G between May and July 2018.  This had included a 
replacement of valves and the head gasket being  remanufactured. He said an independent 
inspection of the vehicle by S on 3 August 2018 had stated that repairs had been completed  
to an industry standard so as to make it fit for purpose and of satisfactory quality. He stated 
that in September 2018 an engine management  light became illuminated. And following a 
visit to a local garage a diagnostics  report was prepared.  This described the vehicle as 
emitting smoke from the exhaust which suggested  oil was burning. He felt this was linked  to 
the repairs to the head  gasket and that a further inspection  wasnt  required in order to 
recommend that Mrs H should  be able to reject it.
Advantage didnt  agree  with this and said it felt the oil leak had been properly repaired to 
industry standard. As its not been  possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been 
asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN44389992Mrs Hs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. Advantage supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act of 
2015 (CRA).
Im sorry  that things havent  worked  out with this vehicle as well as Mrs H no doubt 
expected. Unfortunately,  with older  vehicles  - this was one was nine years of age when 
supplied - the risks are that much  greater that something will go wrong. But even  with such  a 
vehicle the CRA requires  it to be of satisfactory  quality  at the time of supply. This takes into 
account such factors as age and previous mileage. And if it doesnt  meet  this standard then 
it doesnt conform to contract.
Theres no doubt that at the point when Mrs H signed the finance agreement in April 2018, 
this vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality.  The information Ive received shows there  was an 
oil leak which needed repairing and regrettably whilst these repairs were being completed  it 
seems the timing chain  was damaged.  This led to further delay. And in those circumstances 
Mrs H wouldve been entitled to reject the vehicle. Instead she preferred to have it repaired.
Repairs were carried out but it doesnt  seem  these were successful as a compression  check 
revealed that oil had leaked  into the injectors and further repairs  would be required. Although 
I can see Mrs H had asked to reject  the vehicle  by 6 June 2018,  Advantage declined this 
request as it said that repairs had been  agreed  and started. And I can see that on 3 July Mr 
H (Mrs Hs husband), told G that Mrs H wouldnt reject the vehicle if the required repairs  
were carried  out.
Repairs were carried out by a company Ill refer to as D. An invoice shows  that these  
repairs included work on the head  gasket as well as repairs to valves. Unfortunately,  these 
repairs took rather longer  than originally anticipated  and the vehicle wasnt fully repaired until 
towards the end of July 2018.  
S inspected  the vehicle  on 3 August when the mileage was recorded as 50,682.  Its inspector 
reported that there was a new vacuum  pump  and evidence  that the cylinder head had been 
removed. It said no visible external leaking was evident. It further stated:
The engineer started the vehicle from cold and no abnormalities  were evident, all dash 
warning lights came on and extinguished  correct.
And it went on:
The engineer carried out a five miles test drive  and the engine  reached operating 
temperature. It can be reported  that no visual abnormities  are evident. No smoke  from 
exhaust tail pipe on acceleration and the vehicle  drives  as normally  expected for its type, 
age and recorded mileage. It is without excessive noise, vibrations and all major units, and 
all running gear operating  normally.
It concluded:
the engineer  believes, after inspecting the vehicle and taking in to account all the 
customers/repairers information and proofs supplied,  that the repairs  appear to have been 
carried out to an industry  standard,  making the vehicle  fit for purpose and satisfactory 
quality.
Ref: DRN44389993Where facts are in dispute or information is incomplete or unclear - as some of it is here - Im 
required to make my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Following Ss inspection the vehicle was returned to Mrs H on or around  16 August 2018. Mr 
H immediately reported a problem with the exhaust which  he said hadnt  been identified at 
the inspection.  He said it appeared a temporary fix had been applied  to the front of the 
exhaust. And the exhaust was blowing.
Ive seen that Advantage suggested  that the reason  the inspector didnt notice the issue with 
the exhaust was that the vehicle had been inspected on a public highway and hadnt been  
jacked up. Id simply comment that I wouldnt expect an expert witness  to make a 
conclusive judgment about the quality  of a vehicle if they hadnt been able to carry out a 
complete inspection. The inspection report indicates the vehicle was inspected  at Gs 
premises so its almost  certain there wouldve been the facility to jack the vehicle  up. The 
failure to do so means that the reports conclusions about the state of the vehicle are open to 
reasonable doubt.
Whether or not the current issues with the vehicle, as reported in As diagnostic test, are 
related to the earlier repairs doesnt  change my view. When a vehicle is supplied the issue of 
satisfactory quality is to be judged as a whole. Whilst  a vehicle comprises  numerous  
separate parts, a supplier  doesnt get a chance to repair each part individually  if things go 
wrong. If, after repairs are completed, other issues are identified which show the vehicle 
didnt conform to contract when supplied theres  no right to a further opportunity  to repair.  
The bare facts show  that the vehicle was initially shown to have faults  which were subject of 
repairs for an oil leak.  Following those  repairs further major work had to be carried out on the 
engine. At either of these points Mrs H wouldve been entitled  to reject the vehicle. I consider 
she showed admirable  forbearance in not doing so.
The latest diagnostic  test shows the exhaust  is emitting smoke  which  its suggested is the 
result of an oil leak. As report states:
2A8B fault code present relating to bank  1 sensor 1 Vehicle emitting smoke from exhaust  
suggesting oil burning. Codes cleared due to customer changing o2 sensor. Engine light 
returned. Checked system for faults,  2A8B fault code present. Recommended compression 
test due to vehicle history  and fault.  Fault needs  investigating to prevent further damage to 
engine.
The vehicle was, at the date of this report in September 2018, still within the six months 
period following supply where the final right to reject under the CRA was still available to Mrs 
H.
Whilst its not certain that the present issues with the vehicle are linked to the earlier  repairs, 
on a balance of probabilities its the most likely  explanation. But whether thats so or not 
theres more than sufficient information from the diagnostic test to reasonably infer that the 
vehicle still doesnt  conform  to contract  (satisfactory  quality) despite the various repair  
attempts. The vehicle  shouldnt  be emitting smoke in the manner described.
In these circumstances Im satisfied that Mrs H should be able to reject  the vehicle and end 
the agreement. And Im upholding her complaint.
Ref: DRN44389994my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  this complaint.
In full and final settlement  of the complaint I now require Advantage Finance Limited to take 
the following  action:
1.End the agreement with Mrs H having nothing further to pay from date of termination;
2.Collect the car at no further cost to Mrs H;
3.Refund all monthly payments made  since 21 September 2018  until date of 
termination;
4.Arrange to have  all information relating to this finance agreement removed from Mrs 
Hs  credit  record;
.
5.Pay Mrs H £100 for the inconvenience  of having  to deal with a faulty car and
make trips to the garage for repairs and diagnostics.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4438999