K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  about the way Shop  Direct Finance Company Limited  handled her credit  
account with them.
background
Miss B has a credit  account with Shop Direct which she opened in 2013.
Miss B says that in June  2018, she viewed her account and made a payment on-line to clear 
the outstanding balance.
She says she was then surprised to receive letters, texts and calls from Shop Direct in 
September 2018 asking her to make  payments towards her account balance.
As well as stating that she hadnt fully cleared her balance in June, Shop Direct had also 
applied late payment charges and interest,  taking Miss Bs balance to over £300.
Miss B complained to Shop Direct. They  pointed  out that Miss B hadnt in fact cleared her 
balance in June.  There was an item she bought on a buy now pay later deal which didnt  
appear in the balance  due, because the payment for that item wasnt due yet. Shop Direct 
said this was all very clear in Miss Bs account  statements.   
However, they admitted Miss B had received poor customer service when shed called them  
to discuss her account. Shed been given  misleading information and was promised a call 
back which did not happen.
Because of this, Shop Direct cancelled the charges and interest  theyd applied  to the 
account. They cancelled  the payment due for the buy now pay later  item. They  updated 
Miss Bs credit file to show that she was up-to-date  with her payments. And they give her 
£50 compensation  for her trouble and upset.
Miss B wasnt happy with this outcome. She wants Shop Direct to clear  her remaining 
outstanding account balance. So she complained to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought Shop  Direct hadnt done anything  wrong.
Miss B disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct have  admitted  Miss B received  poor customer  service and theyve given her £50 
compensation for that. It appears Miss B was misled by what  she was told at one point  and 
that she didnt  get a call back she was promised.
The item Miss B bought  on buy now pay later terms cost around £300.  Given that Miss B 
received regular statements about  what she owed,  it wouldnt be unreasonable  to suggest 
that she should have noticed  that the balance she paid off in June 2016 was significantly 
lower than the total cost of the items  shed  bought.  
Ref: DRN46582082I can also see that the amount owed for buy now pay later items was quite  clear  in the 
account statements   and was quite clearly  not included in the outstanding  sum Miss B paid 
off. As Shop  Direct have  pointed out, this is because at that time the amount wasnt due to 
be paid yet.
I should also say that the interest  and late payment  charges were only applied to the account 
after Miss B had received several notifications that they would be added if she didnt make  
the required payment.  These notifications were included in her account  statements. 
Despite this, Shop Direct have cancelled the interest  and late payment charges and theyve 
cancelled the remaining  amount due on the buy now pay later item.
Miss B wants us to require Shop Direct  to cancel  her current remaining  balance. But her 
remaining balance is made up the costs of items  she purchased  after June 2018 when she 
says she thought shed paid off her balance. 
So, I cant see how it would be reasonable to ask Shop Direct to cancel the amounts  
currently owed on items  purchased after June  2018  because Miss B was mistaken about the 
total amount owed  in June 2018.
I understand Miss B may now have incurred further interest and charges on the amount due 
for those  more recent purchases.  She thinks this is unfair given that were  looking into her 
complaint.
Again, I dont agree. She bought those  items  after June 2018. They have nothing to do with 
her complaint that she didnt understand she still owed money after making her payment in 
June. And I cant say its unreasonable for Shop Direct to apply their normal terms and 
conditions to the money owed for those  more recent purchases. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4658208