K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with the way U K Insurance Limited has dealt  with and settled 
their home insurance claim.
background 
I appreciate that Mrs C has been  the one leading this claim and dealing with UKI, however 
as the policy  is joint, this decision does also reference Mr C where appropriate.
In June 2015 Mr and Mrs C had an escape  of water in their home  which caused damage to 
their kitchen. In 2017 repairs  works were still on-going, but Mrs C was unhappy with the 
quality of the work that had been undertaken and still had some work outstanding. At this 
point she raised a formal  complaint with UKI. It didnt resolve the matter to her satisfaction, 
so she then brought her complaint to our service  in early 2018.
To put things right Mrs C said she wanted the following:
for UKI to reimburse her expenses  as agreed (for food costs)
a replacement sink and worktop (with both correctly fitted)
a levelled kitchen  floor and new flooring
the back of the kitchen cupboard  to be correctly placed
But she said she didnt trust UKI to complete  this work to an acceptable standard. So she 
wanted compensation for the quality of work that was done and the inconvenience this 
caused, so she could get a professional  to do the work herself.
The issues  described  above have occurred in the latter part of Mrs Cs claim  as UKI was in 
a position to repair the above parts of the kitchen in mid-2017, when it had Mrs Cs material  
choices so it could  order the relevant parts to carry out repair works. Ill summarise what  
happened from the summer of 2017 to now, however Id like to reassure both parties that I 
have read the full information provided which sets out in detail the background to this 
complaint.
In August  2017  UKI scheduled for works to refit Mrs Cs kitchen and level and relay  her 
kitchen floor. This work included replacing  part of her worktop  counter, fitting new tiles, 
works to her kitchen units, sink and plastering and re-decorating. When  the tradesman 
started work  on Mrs Cs flooring, they had concerns  about potential asbestos  in the original 
floor tiles, so work on this was paused while testing took place. Asbestos was found,  so a 
separate contractor  came  in to remove the affected areas.
Following this, tradesmen attended  to lay latex on the floor to level it before the new vinyl 
was laid. Mrs C says she reported  that the latex was uneven and didnt appear to be drying 
in places. She says the tradesman  said the latex was dry to touch and he couldnt  find any 
leaks in the kitchen pipework, so he wasnt concerned. The new vinyl was then laid, but 
Mrs C complained to UKI as it was uneven, and she could feel dips in the floor.  At this time 
she also complained  about the sink and worktop,  as the sink wasnt  fitted  correctly  and had 
damage, and the worktop didnt fit in the place  of the previous one, leaving gaps. The 
original tradesman  reviewed the floor and agreed with Mrs C that the person who laid this 
would need to return and carry out further  work. Mrs C also complained  at this time that the 
vinyl had been cut too short in places,  leaving  under flooring exposed.
Ref: DRN46401912The tradesman who laid the flooring returned to Mrs Cs home to correct it. This visit wasnt  
pre-arranged, so Mrs C wasnt  home. However  Mr C was home,  so work was able to go 
ahead. Mrs C says it was agreed that the full vinyl would be lifted and the whole floor 
levelled wall-to-wall. This meant the white  goods and part of the units would be removed. 
However when the tradesman attended, instead he cut the vinyl underneath the units.  The 
vinyl was rolled up and placed in Mrs Cs dining room. At this point the tradesman found the 
floor was wet in two areas. Ultimately it was determined  there  was a leaking pipe that 
needed fixing before  the latex could be reapplied to level the floor and the vinyl re-laid.
In December 2017 the leak was fixed, so UKI and Mrs C discussed a new date for the floor 
to be levelled. Mrs C wasnt able to make  the dates UKI offered,  which it explained were the 
only dates left available in 2017. She proposed alternative dates saying these were the only 
dates the work could  be done. But UKI wasnt able to send someone on these  dates. Mrs C 
also asked for someone to just attend and relay the existing  flooring, however UKI wasnt  
able to send someone to do this. Also, while the vinyl had been  rolled  up Mrs Cs pet had 
caused some damage to it. UKI set out that it wouldnt be replacing the vinyl as pet damage 
wasnt covered under  her policy. At this point UKI offered to cash  settle with Mrs C, so she 
could arrange  for her own tradesman  to complete the works to the floor.
On 5 January 2018 UKI confirmed the amount it was willing  to cash settle, so Mrs C then 
looked into whether  this would cover the works  that were still outstanding.  On 22 January  
2018 she confirmed  she wanted UKI to carry on with the works as it would cost her far more 
than their offer to get the work  done herself.  UKI next had a tradesman available  on 12 and 
13 February 2018. Mrs C requested earlier dates, but these were not available.
The floor was levelled  on 12 February 2018;  however  the vinyl wasnt  able to be fully re-laid  
the following  day. The tradesman  put the flooring down, but explained  that he wouldnt be 
gluing it as it now needed to be replaced. He explained that due to the damage it had 
sustained and the length of time it had been rolled  up, it couldnt  be laid and sealed in an 
acceptable way. He contacted UKI about  this, but it didnt  agree to replace the flooring. 
Mrs C then brought her complaint to our service. We partially upheld  Mrs Cs complaint. Our 
investigator felt that at this stage it was best for a cash settlement to be made for all 
outstanding works, as it was clear the relationship  between her and UKI had broken  down  
and it was unlikely  a final resolution  would  be reached any other way. The final offer put to 
her through our service, which UKI agreed  with, was for:
the expenses  payment  of £75 
the sink to be refitted, cleaned, sealed  - including the plumbing kit being fitted and the 
cupboard backboard  refitted  £258.00 plus vat, plus Plumbing fixing and Cleaning 
kits  £65
the worktop replaced and sealed with a worktop  of the correct  specifications, so there  
are no gaps  £391.35 plus vat
fully replace the vinyl flooring, and cover  the cost of fitting and sealing the new vinyl  
£391.96 plus vat
Mrs C didnt accept the offer.  She said that the hourly rate for a tradesman was too low, that 
another tradesman wouldnt want or be able to continue  the work  and that the amount didnt 
compensate her for the mental health issues the process has caused  her. So the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN46401913my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At this point in the case, UKI has offered to cash settle for all the outstanding works Mrs C 
asked for when she first brought  her complaint to our service. So the remaining  points for me 
to consider are if the amounts now offered to complete the works  in her kitchen are fair and if 
any compensation is due to Mrs C. I note that there are aspects to the claim that don't fall 
under the complaint that was brought to us. I won't be considering these as such, but theyve 
helped me to form a holistic view of what's happened overall and to decide  if the offer is fair.
Ive reviewed the works being carried out and the amounts  offered for these. Reviewing the 
total figures, including  VAT, I dont think the offer put forward by UKI is unreasonable.  If I 
was just to look at the hourly rate, I understand Mrs Cs concerns about the offer.  However 
looking further into the works that need completing  and the total amount offered for this, I do 
think the offers are sufficient. Mrs C also hasnt demonstrated with evidence  that the 
settlement offer is unreasonably  low. And, in any event,  she is free to choose her own 
tradesmen to do the work. So it is possible that the work may cost a greater amount than 
shes been offered.  However, it could also cost her less. And from my knowledge  of these 
claims, Mrs C is able to agree an amount for the job that needs carrying out, rather than 
paying a tradesman an hourly rate until the job is complete. So Im not asking UKI to 
increase its offer.
I appreciate the works to Mrs Cs home have been  on-going for a long time and that this has 
been very difficult for her and her family.  However,  I cant fairly say that all the delays have 
been caused by UKI, or by things that were in UKIs control. For example, unfortunately the 
kitchen floor was damaged by a further  leak. I havent seen evidence  that this was due to 
UKIs actions. This did however cause delays and meant that more work  needed  doing.  And 
the timing of this meant that works  needed to be completed around  Christmas, so there was 
less availability of tradesmen due to the holiday period. UKI offered Mrs C the only dates it 
had, and she wasnt available  again understandably  on her part as there was short notice. 
But, UKI could only offer what availability  the tradesmen it contracted  with had. So while this 
was unfortunate,  I cant say that UKI unreasonably caused a delay or didnt try to move the 
works forward as best possible.
In the same  respect, between the leak happening  and 2017, I cant  see this delay was solely  
due to UKIs actions  for example, postponing or delaying work that couldve been done. 
Instead, it appears that there was ongoing disagreement about the materials that would be 
used to restore the kitchen. But it appears that UKI only declined requests for materials  that 
were substantially different to or better than the original  kitchen,  so I don't think it was unfair  
to decline to use these.  And therefore I don't think it would  be fair to hold UKI responsible,  or 
wholly responsible  at least,  for the entire  time its taken to reach a resolution  on this claim.
Looking at the progress of this claim,  I accept  it has been far more  drawn  out than either 
party to this complaint wouldve wanted.  However,  as Ive set out above, I dont consider UKI 
is at fault for all of the delays. And unfortunately having a buildings claim of this nature will 
come with a degree  of stress and inconvenience. So while  I appreciate this has been a 
difficult time for Mrs C, I dont consider she is due additional compensation from UKI for the 
way it handled  her claim. 
what UKI should  do to put things right
Ref: DRN46401914In order to put things  right, UKI needs to pay Mr and Mrs C the below amounts, so they can 
arrange for the remaining  works on their kitchen  to be completed themselves and so theyre  
reimbursed in line with the policy for the time they didnt have a workable kitchen.
the expenses  payment  towards food costs  of £75 
the stated amounts to cover:
the cost of having the sink refitted, cleaned,  sealed - including the plumbing  kit being 
fitted and for the cupboard backboard refitted   £258.00 plus vat, plus Plumbing 
fixing kit and Cleaning  kit  £65
the worktop being replaced and sealed with a worktop of the correct specifications, 
so there  are no gaps   £391.35 plus vat
fully replacing the vinyl flooring and the cost of fitting and sealing the new vinyl  
£391.96 plus vat
my final decision
U K Insurance Limited has made an offer to cash settle the remaining works and reimburse 
Mr and Mrs C their food expenses. I conclude that such  an offer is fair compensation in all 
the circumstances. My decision is that UKI should  pay Mr and Mrs C within 28 days  of 
receiving their acceptance of this decision.
Mr and Mrs C should note that if they accept my decision, it will be legally binding on all 
parties, and they probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter  for 
additional compensation. If, however,  they reject the decision, although their legal rights will 
remain intact, itll be purely a matter  between them and UKI as to whether the offer still 
remains open for acceptance.  Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror  after 
rejection of it has been communicated.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2020.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4640191