K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include its 
associated plumbing  and drainage company, engineers and others  for whose  actions I hold 
that insurance company responsible.
Mr Bs complaint concerns a ceramic pipe underground. Mr B and British  Gas and the 
adjudicator have sometimes referred  to it as a sewer. As I dont think  it serves any property  
other than Mr Bs, I will refer to it as a drain  or foul drain.
Mr B had British Gas cover including  for plumbing  and drainage. He called for help with a 
blockage of his drain.  British Gas cleared the blockage. Mr B complained  that British Gas 
wouldnt mend a hole in the top of the drain. So the hole would again allow material to fall 
into the drain and block  it, he said.
In a final response letter, British Gas said its policy didnt cover the repair  of the hole. It said 
it had done enough by restoring flow and the pipe was working properly.
our adjudicators opinion
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He didnt think that 
British Gas had applied the policy terms unreasonably.  British  Gas had left the sewer 
running clear and, although there  was a hole, it wasnt currently leaking, the adjudicator  said. 
Therefore he didnt recommend that British  Gas carry out a repair under the policy.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to British  Gas on 25 November 2019. I summarise  my findings:
Id found  that there was a hole in Mr Bs soil pipe and it was leaking. 
I was minded to find that British Gas didnt  treat Mr B fairly by declining  to repair it.
Subject to any further information from Mr B or from British Gas,  my provisional  decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint. I intended to direct British Gas Insurance Limited 
to pay Mr B:
1.£470.00 in reimbursement of the cost of repair; and
2.simple interest on that amount at a yearly rate of 8% from 16 July 2019 to the date of 
reimbursement. If British  Gas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr B how much its taken off. It 
should also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate;  and
3.£100.00 for distress  and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN46164312Mr B agrees  with the provisional decision.
British Gas disagrees with the provisional  decision.  It says, in summary,  that:
The damage in the pipe was at the top (12oclock) and did not restrict the flow of the 
drain. Therefore  British Gas fulfilled its obligation by unblocking the drain. The drain 
was serviceable as per the industry  guidelines. 
There is no evidence that the hole in the top of the pipe was allowing debris to fall 
into the pipe and cause a blockage. The blockage could just as easily have been 
caused by whatever  products the customer had been putting into their drainage 
system.
There were  no other defects with the drain run, just the hole. British  Gas has sent us 
a photograph.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
history
Mr B moved to his current address in 2005.
I accept that Mr B has had British  Gas cover since at least 2010.  Im aware of various 
editions of policy terms from October 2015.
policy terms
The cover was for central heating, home electrics, plumbing and drains. Claims were subject 
to a £50.00 excess. Mr B allowed his policy to renew on about  3 October 2018. So the 
relevant policy  terms were the edition dated June 2018. They included the following:
Drains
Whats covered
 Repairing and unblocking drains to restore flow
 Repairing leaks to internal waste water  pipes and external soil and vent pipes
 A replacement  of parts that we cant repair
 Accidental damage
Drains
Whats not covered
 Rainwater guttering  and down pipes, manholes and their covers, soakaways, 
septic tanks, cesspits, drainage pumps,  treatment  plants and macerators and their 
outflow pipes
 Cleaning  and descaling  your drains
 Shared drains
The words  or phrases  in bold type each have a definition in the policy  including  the following:
accidental  damage
Ref: DRN46164313- when you do something that stops  your boiler,  appliance or system  from working  
properly  without  meaning to.
drains
- the system of waste water pipes on your property.
repair(s)/repairing/repaired
- to fix your boiler, appliance or system  following an individual  fault or breakdown but 
not repairs that are purely cosmetic or related to software which doesnt stop the 
main function of your boiler, appliance or system from working or make it unsafe.
In addition there is the following definition:
By you or your, we mean the person(s)  named on your statement, plus the people  
who normally live in your home, including any tenants
And there was the following general exclusion:
Making any improvements
Your product  only includes  repairing or replacing your boiler, appliance or system 
when it stops  working properly   it doesnt include any improvements  or upgrades, 
for example: replacing smoke alarms that are past their recommended replacement  
date or expiry date,  replacing working  radiators, swapping standard radiator valves  
for thermostatic ones and replacing electrical  cables and fuseboards that still work.
Where weve  told you that an improvement is necessary, we may not continue to 
make repairs on that part of your boiler,  appliance  or system unless the work  has 
been carried out.
I consider that a foul drain pipe is working properly when it contains any waste water while 
allowing it to flow. I consider that a foul drain pipe isnt working properly if it is blocked or 
leaking. I wouldnt describe a leaking foul drain as serviceable.
From the Whats covered  section I find that the words to restore flow limit the extent to 
which British Gas undertook to repair  or unblock drains that werent  flowing.
I find that  in addition to that  the policy covered repairing leaks  to external soil pipes and 
vent pipes.
Theres no policy definition of soil and vent pipes.  But the policy  terms include a coloured 
diagram showing what British Gas could cover. It shows a toilet connecting to an external 
vertical pipe which I would describe as an external soil vent pipe.  That connects with a 
horizontal underground pipe. I consider it reasonable  to describe that pipe as a foul drain or 
a soil pipe. The diagram  shows  it leading to a Main drain.  
So I find that British  Gas undertook to repair such a pipe if it were leaking  even  if it were  
still allowing flow. 
facts
From his description and photographs, I find that the blockage was in Mr Bs soil pipe. On 
Friday 8 March  2019  British Gas cleared the blockage and restored its flow. From a camera  
survey British Gas said there  was a hole in the top of the pipe. 
Ref: DRN46164314Mr Bs first letter of complaint included the following:
Remove full bucket of stone/soil
British Gas didnt  refute  that. So I find it likely that debris had fallen  through the hole and 
caused the blockage. The British Gas photograph shows a cleaned drain with no trace of 
debris. But I find it likely that material was likely to fall through  the hole and cause another  
blockage. 
I accept Mr Bs statement  that British Gas estimated  the cost of excavation and repair as 
about £500.00.
It was 20 March 2019 before British Gas responded to Mr Bs calls about repairing the hole. 
In the absence of call recordings from British Gas, I accept Mr Bs statement  that two British 
Gas call-handlers  told him it should cover  his claim. But I dont think that could change  the 
effect of the policy  wording. 
The appropriate British  Gas team said the policy didnt cover  a repair of the hole. British Gas 
sent a final response  letter in late March  2019. British Gas apologised for the delay  since 8 
March and offered  £50.00 compensation in respect of this. But British  Gas didnt change its 
decision on the claim.
From two invoices dated 15 and 16 July 2019, I see that Mr B paid £85.00  for a survey and 
£385.00 for excavation  and repair  of the pipe (a total of £470.00). Thats  a little less than 
British Gas estimated.
From photographs of the excavation, I accept that the pipe was about  one metre 
underground. It had a large  hole in the top. I find the hole consistent with impact rather  than 
gradual deterioration. And I find it likely  that the pipe was leaking  at least  when a large  
volume of waste water  flowed along it.
Repairing and unblocking drains  to restore flow
Im satisfied that British  Gas had done  enough to meet the requirement of Repairing  and 
unblocking drains to restore flow.
Accidental damage
I havent seen  enough evidence to persuade  me that the hole was caused by Mr B or any of 
the people who normally live in his home.  So the hole didnt meet  the policy definition of 
accidental damage.
Repairing leaks to external soil and vent pipes
Ive found that there was a hole in Mr Bs soil pipe and it was leaking. So I find that British  
Gas didnt treat Mr B fairly by declining to repair the hole.
So I find it fair and reasonable to direct British  Gas to reimburse Mr B £470.00 for the cost of 
repair. As hes been out of pocket since July, I intend to direct British  Gas to add interest at 
our usual rate.
Ref: DRN46164315I find that  by unfairly declining his claim  British  Gas caused Mr B distress and 
inconvenience. In particular he lived for about four months with the expectation that the hole 
would cause another blockage. He had to find a contractor to excavate  and repair  the pipe. 
So I find it fair and reasonable to direct British  Gas to pay Mr B  in addition to its payment of 
£50.00 for delay   a further £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct  
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr B:
1.£470.00 in reimbursement of the cost of repair; and
2.simple interest on that amount at a yearly rate of 8% from 16 July 2019 to the date of 
reimbursement. If British  Gas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr B how much its taken off. It 
should also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate;  and
3.£100.00 for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4616431