K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains about the sale of a bill protection policy by Secure Trust Bank Plc. 
background
In 2001, Ms W took out the policy  through  Secure Trust. The aim of the policy  was to cover  
her household bills if she couldnt work because of disability, or she was made unemployed. 
The policy also included cover for funeral expenses, hospitalisation and accidental death.  
In 2017, Ms W started temporary work. This came  to an end in 2018  and she submitted an 
unemployment claim under the policy. The insurer turned down Ms Ws claim, as the policy  
didnt provide unemployment cover  for temporary work.
Ms W thought the policy had been  mis-sold. Secure Trust didnt agree, so she brought a 
complaint to this service.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. As Ms W had been in full-time 
employment when  the policy was taken  out, she didnt think  the policy had been  mis-sold. 
Ms W didnt  accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed  to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy says that to qualify for cover, customers must be working at least 16 hours a 
week under  a permanent contract of employment,  a fixed-term contract of employment  or 
self-employed in the UK.
Then under the heading Temporary / Agency Workers, it says:
We regret that you cannot insure  against unemployment if your employment is: 
1.Temporary, and without a formal employment  contract from the employer, or
2.Arranged by an employment  agency  and without a formal employment contract from 
the employer.
However, you can still benefit from the Policy by choosing disability only cover.
The insurer  changed  a few times  throughout the years Ms W held the policy.  She says the 
policy terms also changed in that time.
I see there were some changes  made to the policy terms  in 2006. After  this time, it seems 
the policy simply rebranded whenever  it was taken over by a new insurer, but the policy 
terms themselves stayed the same. 
Ive looked at the original policy document and this confirms there was no cover for 
temporary employment. The changes made to the policy in 2006 didnt alter this aspect of 
the cover.
I therefore need to consider what happened when  the policy was sold. 
Ref: DRN40582742Ive looked at the application form that was completed when Ms W took out the policy.  I see 
that at the time shed been in permanent continuous  employment for three years,  and was 
working over 16 hours a week. 
Given that Ms W met the eligibility  requirements  when the policy was sold,  I think  the cover 
was suitable for her at the time.  Consequently,  I dont find that the policy was mis-sold. 
I dont know when Ms W became ineligible  for unemployment cover. I understand she 
started a temporary role in September 2017, though  I dont know if this was her first 
temporary role since taking out the policy. 
Unfortunately, Ms W didnt tell the insurer that she was working in a temporary  role. If she 
had done, Id have expected the insurer to tell her she couldnt claim for unemployment 
cover. However, I dont  know  what would have then happened.  The insurer  may have been 
able to place the unemployment  cover on hold until Ms W wanted  this reinstated,  or it may 
have had to cancel the unemployment cover without being able to reinstate this later.  
In cases where an insurer  hasnt run the risk of paying a claim,  this service will sometimes  
require an insurer to repay the premiums it has received. Therefore, Ms W may wish to ask 
the insurer to return  the premiums she paid for the unemployment cover  (as I see she could 
have still made a claim for disability cover) from the date she started  her temporary  
employment. However, if that means  her unemployment  cover would be cancelled,  she may 
want to seek independent  financial advice before going ahead  with this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4058274