K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy that was added  to his 
credit card account by Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds).
background
Mr R successfully applied for a credit card with Lloyds in July 1995. 
When looking at the very limited information  (I have  not been able to see any sales 
documentation or read a detailed recollection  of how the PPI was sold), I cant be sure of 
when or how PPI was sold. Lloyds  has provided  records that go back to January 2000 and 
the PPI is on the account at this stage.  So I cannot be sure how or when  the PPI was sold to 
Mr R but I do know  it was sold at some point between July 1995 (when the card was sold to 
him) and January 2000.
The PPI that was sold to Mr R was designed  to protect his monthly card repayments if he 
wasnt working because  of accident,  sickness, unemployment or redundancy.
Mr R says Lloyds mis-sold the policy. He says through his representatives that it was added 
without his knowledge and it was not suitable  for his needs.
An adjudicator looked into Mr Rs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Mr R 
disagrees and so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Rs case. 
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint for the following reasons:
As I have already  mentioned  neither  Mr R nor Lloyds can give me much information 
about the sale. This is not surprising given  the amount of time thats  passed.  Ive 
looked at what  Mr R has said about how the policy was sold  that it was added  
without his knowledge or consent.  But it has been very difficult  for me to understand 
how this would have  happened with so little information available  about this sale. And 
in the absence of relevant documentation,  a more detailed recollection  from either  
party or further information to support what Mr R has said,  I cannot  fairly conclude on 
this occasion that the policy was sold as he suggests it was. I would need to see 
more information  to support what Mr R has said to conclude  otherwise. 
I cant be sure if Lloyds gave a recommendation to Mr R to have the policy but even if 
it did recommend the PPI, I think it was suitable for him anyway. Any claim under the 
policy more likely  could be paid for up to 12 months.  Mr R would have found the 
benefit from the cover provided useful in an extended time of need (on top of his sick 
pay that he received  from his employer). Mr R also wasnt  adversely affected by any 
of the policys  main exclusions. The policy also seemed affordable for Mr R.
Ref: DRN47058722I cant see that Lloyds  explained about  the policys main terms as clearly as it 
shouldve done. But for the same reasons as the policy  was suitable, I dont think this 
wouldve made a difference  to Mr Rs decision to buy the policy.
It has been very difficult for me to get an understanding as to what happened during  this sale 
due to the lack of information available. In conclusion, I dont think Mr R was mis-sold the 
PPI policy. This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the cover to Mr R. 
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of PPI to Mr R because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr R, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the cost of the 
cover to Mr R.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to an IVA supervisor any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4705872