K820x#14complaint
P, a limited  company, has complained The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc wont  refund money 
that was taken from them without authorisation in 2012.
Mr S, a director  of P, is representing them in their complaint.
background
In 2012 P sold part of its company (this company had a different name but to avoid 
confusion I wont use that throughout this decision). The new company that had bought part 
of P (who  Ill call S) also used RBS as its bank. Mr S alleges S was able to access  Ps 
account and make £35,000  worth of payments to suppliers.  This was in five different 
transactions. He believes Ps online security was able to be compromised  and this was 
RBSs fault. RBS had never warned P this could occur. This meant that part of Ps working 
capital was unavailable to them and had an impact on the viability  of the business.  
Mr S has been disputing this and other  parts of Ps relationship with RBS over a number of 
years. Mr Ss belief  these  transactions  were made without  Ps authorisation was raised with 
RBS in 2015. Mr S has also given  us a copy of his contemporaneous notes which show  he 
raised this with Ps RBS business  manager  in summer 2013. RBS confirmed informally  
theyd not accept liability in November 2013.
Mr S has told us S confirmed  theyd  done  this as their financial  controller  changed the 
permissions on the online banking set-up  to enable the payments to be made.
As he was unhappy  with how RBS were reviewing this, he brought his complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
RBS didnt believe a fraud complaint had ever been raised on this. There was certainly no 
final response from RBS about  these  five payments. However  our adjudicator  felt that the 
contemporaneous note showed that, in all likelihood, Mr S had raised this issue on Ps 
behalf in 2013. RBS also located the correspondence from 2015 when Mr S was gathering 
evidence on how the transactions  were carried out. But he hadnt  raised  a complaint at that 
time.
Because of the time that had elapsed there was limited information for RBS to provide. They 
no longer held detailed online banking audit records. Mr S still held a copy of the mandate  
showing who had signing authority on Ps original  account. But otherwise there was limited 
evidence for our adjudicator to consider.
After reviewing what was available our adjudicator confirmed she couldnt state these 
payments had been made without any authority.
Mr S disagreed with this outcome  and has asked an ombudsman to consider Ps complaint. 
He also raised a range of administrative concerns which hadnt cropped  up previously.
I completed a provisional decision on 17 January 2020. I came  to the same outcome as our 
adjudicator but wanted to give Mr S a full opportunity to respond to us with further evidence.
I didnt receive anything further  from Mr S. I also received no response from RBS.
Ref: DRN42020802I now have all I need to complete  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so and received no other 
evidence, Ive reached the same conclusion as in my provisional decision.  The following 
reasoning remains  the same.
Mr S told me he had more  evidence  to provide; including a card which he believes was 
obtained from RBS to allow the payments to be made. Despite a long period of time passing 
weve received nothing further. I know  that Mr S has had some  ill health. I expressly  gave a 
four week  period for responses to the provisional decision but didnt receive  anything  from 
Mr S.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  but 
nothing that has had an overriding impact on this complaint.  Firstly when we look at whether 
a bank has acted  fairly  in rejecting someones  fraud complaint, one of the things we consider 
is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed  them  to be made. If 
they did, then we generally wouldnt  ask the bank to refund them.
To help me decide what happened, Ive reviewed the evidence provided to us by Mr S and 
RBSs limited information about  the transactions and how they took place.
Theres no doubt these  transactions  were completed in October  2012  when  S made  five 
payments. Ive seen  an email from S confirming this. There certainly doesnt seem to be any 
subterfuge about  this. They were  completed  using  RBSs  online banking service available to 
businesses at the time.
I have looked  at the mandates  that existed. The person that all parties seem to accept made 
these five transactions (or gave access to the system) was an authorised signatory. It 
therefore wouldnt be too surprising that she had been given access and authority to use the 
online banking service.  Or shed allowed someone else at S to make  the transactions  using 
her access  rights. 
RBS state they have  no records to show they were  asked  to revoke that persons access  to 
online banking. Overall  this suggests  she had authority to do this at the time. RBS has also 
confirmed that companies administrators are the entities with authority to set users online 
privileges.
I know Mr S believes there is some weakness  in RBSs online system  which  allowed S to 
access the system and make these payments. I have seen nothing  to corroborate this. 
Although I accept the evidence is limited.
Therefore based  on what Ive seen, and on balance, I dont believe theres any evidence to 
show these transactions  are unauthorised.
What I have already  pointed out to Mr S is that it seems to me the five payments related to 
debts that may have  been Ps in any case. They certainly seem to be on a list of aged  
creditors which  I suspect  was passed  from P to S when certain parts  of the business  were 
transferred.
Ref: DRN42020803Again there seems to be no attempt at subterfuge here as Mr S was copied into an email 
showing these creditors in October  2012. I have  mentioned the likelihood  to Mr S that these 
suppliers were paid as part of a contractual commitment  between P and S at the time over 
the transfer of liabilities. Ive received nothing to contradict this hypothesis.
And if these  were Ps suppliers who required payment  even if the payments had been 
unauthorised  I might decide that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for P to be refunded  
these amounts. Im not required to make  this decision as Ive already decided  the payments 
were most likely authorised. 
Mr S did raise a number of other complaints but these mostly relate to another corporate  
entity so Im not dealing with these here.
Mr S stated  he wanted the ombudsman to hold a hearing on this complaint. I confirmed in 
November 2019  that I wasnt going  to do this as I didnt think this would be effective in 
drawing out any other aspects that I wasnt already aware of. Mr S didnt argue this aspect 
any further.
The final decision  marks  the end of our services involvement. I have been in touch  with Mr S 
previously to confirm that without further evidence I was unlikely to change the outcome of 
this complaint. I am sure Mr S will be disappointed but I dont think  he will be surprised.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Ps complaint against The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4202080