K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy BUPA Insurance Limited  has declined  a claim he made  under his private  
medical insurance.
background
In June 2018 Mr W used  his private  medical  insurance to meet with a consultant following 
problems with his vision. It was determined that hed suffered a left macular  branch retinal 
vein occlusion (RVO). As a result of this, his consultant ophthalmic surgeon advised  him to 
start Lucentis treatment.  He called BUPA to get authorisation for this treatment privately,  
however he was told that he wouldnt  be covered as BUPA considered RVO was a chronic 
condition so not covered under the terms of his policy.
Mr W wasnt happy with this, so he complained  to BUPA. It said it would look further into his 
condition and as part of this it contacted his consultant. Unfortunately  BUPA sent this email 
to an incorrect email  address, as the consultants profile hadnt been  updated  since  his 
secretary had changed. BUPA  spoke to Mr W on 7 August and during this call he provided 
the correct email address for the secretary. However BUPA  didnt cross-reference  this 
information with the email  it had sent,  so it didnt realise the mistake that had been made. On 
9 August they spoke again  and the error was realised. A correctly addressed email was then 
sent that day and calls were made towards the end of August to confirm  the email  had been 
received. BUPA received  a response  with the information it needed  on 4 September.  
When BUPA  completed its investigation into Mr Ws concerns it awarded him £150  as it 
acknowledged there were  some  delays and points when the service provided  could  have 
been better.  However, it maintained its stance that the claim wasnt payable.  Mr W 
disagreed, so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint but didnt uphold  it. She thought BUPA  had 
fairly applied  the policy  terms and that the compensation awarded was also fair. Mr W 
disagreed as he considered the claim should be paid and he was due more  compensation,  
so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to consider the information available to determine if BUPA  has acted fairly. Its not 
to make any kind of medical diagnosis.  The medical  reports I have say that as a result of 
having RVO Mr W experienced  blurred vision in the affected eye. The information Ive been  
provided with says the treatment he wanted  covered (and has since  had on the NHS) is able 
to lessen the spread of the RVO  and restore  some of his vision. Mr W argues that a cure is 
defined as the relief  of symptoms, so Lucentis has cured his RVO as his vision  has been 
restored. BUPA argues that RVO  meets the definition of chronic under the policy, so no 
treatment of it is covered.
Ive reviewed the policy terms to determine if RVO  does meet the definition  of a chronic  
condition. Chronic  conditions are defined by the policy as:
Ref: DRN49302462a disease, illness or injury which has one or more of the following characteristics:
-it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, 
check-ups and/or  tests
-it needs ongoing or long-term control  or relief  of symptoms
-it requires rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
-it continues indefinitely
-it has no known cure
-it comes back  or is likely to come back.
Mr W has focused heavily on the improvement  his NHS treatment has had on his vision. 
However I feel its important to reiterate that his medical notes set out that blurred vision  is 
a symptom of his RVO. So the medical  condition BUPA should be applying  the policy  terms 
to is RVO, not the symptoms it causes Mr W.
I can see that BUPA asked Mr Ws surgeon  a number of questions  about his condition.  He 
confirmed the diagnosis was RVO and that Mr W had a typical  case of the condition. BUPA 
has explained that there is no known cure for RVO  (only treatment to improve  the 
symptoms) and that its managed through on-going treatment and monitoring, which is 
supported by the additional resources BUPA has provided. I appreciate  Mr W disagrees with 
BUPA, but he hasnt  provided any evidence to counter what BUPA  has provided. I have 
considered his points,  for example that the NHS  and Moorfields websites  do not say that 
there is no cure. However this doesnt then automatically mean there is a cure. I havent 
seen any evidence to show  there  is one and all the information BUPA has given suggests  
there isnt at present. So Im satisfied RVO  does fall under the chronic definition as set out 
in Mr Ws policy and, therefore,  in my opinion it was not unreasonable for BUPA  to decline 
cover on that basis.
The policy also excludes  treatment  for the temporary relief  of symptoms (exclusion 30). This 
exclusion says We do not pay for treatment which is for the ongoing management of a 
condition. I appreciate  Mr Ws comments that there is no guarantee  his vision  will get worse, 
so Lucentis isnt necessarily a temporary relief. But as Ive set out above, while  his vision  
may not deteriorate again, the information  available indicates he will still have RVO. Ive 
considered the definition  Mr W has provided of a cure; however Ive also reviewed his 
ophthalmic surgeons comments. The surgeon has said he discussed with Mr W about  the 
issues regarding management  of his RVO and then recommended Lucentis. Considering 
the wording Mr Ws surgeon has used, I think BUPA had fairly  applied exclusion 30 and so 
can exclude the treatment Mr W tried to claim for.
I can see the Mr Ws ophthalmic surgeon  has said his visual problem clearly presented as 
an acute condition . But I consider  BUPA  acknowledged this as it initially covered Mr Ws 
visual problems. Then,  as a result  of further  investigation, he was diagnosed with RVO  which  
meets BUPAs definition  of a chronic  condition. So while the initial visual  problem was 
covered, once a chronic condition was diagnosed, the terms clearly set out that cover then 
stops (exclusion six).
In relation to the compensation awarded, I can see from the information  provided that there  
were delays with BUPAs review of Mr Ws condition. Hes set out that he was left suffering 
and that time was wasted during the review.  On reviewing the complaint, I consider the 
compensation awarded is fair. Whilst BUPA couldve been more  proactive at times, it was 
provided with the incorrect information  so I cant hold it responsible for the entire  delay. 
I appreciate Mr W was waiting to hear back during  this time, but BUPA had set out its initial  
Ref: DRN49302463stance that it wasnt  agreeing to cover him. So at this point Mr W had the choice to start 
treatment with the NHS or wait for the review. Whilst I can appreciate why he wanted to wait, 
I dont agree Mr W is due compensation for this entire time period.  Ultimately he did have the 
option to start an alternative treatment process, but chose to wait for BUPAs response.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4930246