K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
March 1994. Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Santander made it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and 
that they chose  to take it out. I say this because a box has been ticked  to include PPI 
with the mortgage application and I can see that Mr and Mrs B chose not to apply for 
another type of insurance with the mortgage application. However, I can understand 
if they cant remember the details of what was discused, given how long ago it was 
sold to them.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check that the PPI 
was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. For example they werent affected  by any of the exclusions to, or 
limits on, the PPI cover and they seem to have  had a need  for the cover.   
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for them if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have put them off taking  out the cover. 
All of the above means Santander doesnt  have  to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr 
and Mrs B. But Santander will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B 
because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because Santander didnt  
tell Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B have  said - including  what theyve said about  
having a significant amount of savings  that they couldve relied  on to meet the mortgage 
repayments if Mr B was unable to work.  However, as Mr and Mrs B were taking out a 
mortgage advance  despite having a significant amount in savings, this would  suggest  that 
their savings were earmarked for something else. So I still think  they couldve found  the PPI 
to be useful to cover  their mortgage repayments,  if Mr B was unable  to work due to sickness 
or unemployment. So these points dont  change my decision.
Ref: DRN46187682what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs B any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs B the extra amount they paid each month  
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Santander should also pay Mr and Mrs B 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs B can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 April 2019
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4618768