K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank)  changed its internet 
banking system and her business bank debit card which meant  she could not log in and so 
lost business.
background
Yorkshire Bank changed its internet  banking  system  for business customers  in April 2018.  
Mrs S had difficulties accessing this and it paid her £50 in compensation in July 2018.  She 
reported further problems from September 2018  and could not always log in despite making 
a number of calls to Yorkshire Bank. She also discovered it had sent her a new bank card 
which she had not received. It sent this again by courier and paid her a further £200 in 
compensation. She does not think that this is sufficient.
Our investigator did not recommend that Yorkshire Bank do anything  more. He said that:
-Yorkshire Bank had made a commercial  decision to change  its internet banking 
website. The system screen  shots showed  that Mrs S had made  unsuccessful  
attempts to log on. This appeared  to be a result of incorrect information being  
entered by her which caused the account to lock.
-Hed listened to the calls she had with Yorkshire  Bank about this and thought  it had 
been trying to help her.
-There had been a message printed on her August 2018 statement saying that a new 
debit card was being sent out. Unfortunately, due to a dispute with the postal service, 
Mrs S did not receive this and only found that out when  her old card stopped working.
-Yorkshire Bank exceptionally agreed  to send  a replacement card and PIN out by 
courier. These were sent separately  for security reasons.
-It would  not transfer direct debits from her business account to her personal account.  
This was because these were  business  payments.
-He thought that the total compensation was reasonable.
Mrs S did not agree.  She said she wanted the compensation due to her and that shed been 
told in November 2018 that she would  be compensated  for her loss of income and clients.  
The Yorkshire Bank internet platform remains unusable for her and she cannot log in. Shed 
been kept on the phone, staff cannot  help her and she cannot make  payments. Mrs S said 
shed tried what Yorkshire Bank suggested - even changing the mobile phone registered  to 
receive security codes. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Yorkshire Bank has provided call recordings of its telephone discussions with Mrs S. So I 
know how long she spent  on the phone about these issues.  And she describes in an email to 
this service that I lost my cool it was so frustrating.  Mrs S clearly  had ongoing problems 
accessing the system.  And during some of the calls she disclosed a number of personal 
issues including about her health which she said were affected by what happened.
I consider that the members of staff she spoke to were trying to find a solution  and help her. I 
appreciate that the outcome and suggestions were  not acceptable to Mrs S. But I dont 
Ref: DRN42678532consider that they didnt try to help. Having said that she was clearly kept on hold for long 
periods and it was not always possible to find a solution to her.
There seem  to me to be a number of contributory factors here:
-The design of the online system was changed  in April 2018.
-Mrs S experienced difficulties accessing this in July 2018. Yorkshire Bank did not call 
her back  about this at the time she requested and paid her compensation of £50.
-The old system could  not be used at all after 13 September 2018.  
-Mrs S made a number  of calls about  this and we have recordings of her calls from 29 
September 2018 onwards. She spent a long time on the phone, was often put on 
hold and at one stage was transferred to an automated system against her wishes.
-We look at things  impartially  and in my judgement Mrs S presented  as angry,  
frustrated or upset at almost all times during those calls. And I think it was difficult for 
members of staff to engage with her in a meaningful way.
-There were  some  general system teething problems that Yorkshire  Bank accepted 
in one of the calls with Mrs S on 29 September 2018
-It was not possible  to receive text messages with security codes for access  to some  
types of mobile  phones and/or  mobile payment plans.
-The systems  information shows that Mrs S access  was blocked when incorrect  
information was entered.
-Mrs S had difficulties checking if payments were made or credits received.  And she 
had to phone up about one payment to confirm it was genuine.
-With assistance and some effort Mrs S was able to log onto her account on 3 
October 2018.
-Her access was again lost when her existing bank card stopped working  in mid 
October 2018. 
-That was because  all customers had been sent an upgraded card. This was sent to 
Mrs S in September  2018 but she did not receive it due to a dispute with the postal 
service. She said she never  wanted this.
-Yorkshire Bank was told about  this on 13 October 2018 and at Mrs S insistence did 
send her a further card and then PIN by courier - which  was not its standard process. 
She was then able to use it.
-It would  not allow  business direct debits  to be transferred to Mrs S personal account 
as it knew that these were business payments.
-There seem to have been  further problems after Yorkshire Bank sent the final 
response to this complaint on 30 October 2018.
Mrs S said to this service that she lost over £5,500 in income during October to November 
2018. I understand from listening  to one of the calls she had with Yorkshire  Bank that she 
may have  based  this on the hourly  charges  either  to existing or new clients she missed  out 
on. And that if some of those clients bought  a package  of services from her then there  was a 
lot of money at stake. It also seems that Mrs S sensibly wanted to check if a client  had paid 
her before providing  a service which as I understand it was delivered over the phone. Her 
position is that while she was on the phone to Yorkshire Bank she could have been earning  
money.
I dont have any clear evidence from her to support  a financial loss or to show  changes to 
the level of income  to her bank account in the relevant  months. And as Mrs S seemed to 
make the calls  and had complained she did not receive calls back  Im not clear why 
shed have made or continued these calls at times when she could have been earning  
money for her business. So while I accept in principle what she says about the potential loss 
Ref: DRN42678533of income, Im not persuaded based on the evidence Ive seen that she had an actual 
financial loss or that Yorkshire Bank  can fairly be responsible for any loss to her. 
Mrs S clearly  found the new system  difficult,  if not almost impossible,  to use. As Ive already 
set out there were  a number of contributory factors to this. I cant  reasonably  say that 
Yorkshire Bank wasnt entitled to change the design of the system or its bank cards. Thats  a 
matter for its commercial discretion. And as I said above I dont find Mrs S suffered a 
financial loss as a result of what it did. Balancing all the factors  there was distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs S by Yorkshire Bank. I know  Mrs S will be extremely unhappy  
when I say that I think a fair amount of compensation  has already been paid to her to reflect 
the impact of its actions.  And I wont be able to look here at any further problems she said 
shes since had  only at the complaint thats  been referred to us.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense the Clydesdale  Bank Plc 
(trading as Yorkshire Bank) need take no further  action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4267853