K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B)  mis-sold them  a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs B bought the policy  in 1992 at the same time as taking out a joint-mortgage.  
They applied for the mortgage and PPI in a branch. The PPI policy provided cover for Mr B 
for accident, sickness, and unemployment   subject to its exclusions and limitations. 
Although the mortgage was a joint one, Mrs B wasnt covered by the PPI policy.  It offered to 
repay £250 a month towards  Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage balance  in the event of Mr B making 
a successful claim. At the time, it cost £12.50 a month. 
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  at the point of this sale with great care. Mr B 
was the only person  insured; he was employed as a chef and entitled  to up to 3 months sick 
pay in the event of him being  unable to work.  The company representing Mr and Mrs B also 
said Mr B had redundancy cover and death  in service benefits,  and some life insurance. I 
havent seen direct evidence of these  benefits,  but I explain a little more about  them  later on. 
I understand Mr B to have been  in good health at the point of sale.
It seems  the PPI was stopped in early  1995  and mortgage account closed in 2004. Mr and 
Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on their behalf.  I 
will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In summary, 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative says:
 
B&B failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs B 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Bs representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means B&B should have told 
Mr and Mrs B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means B&B should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs B and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs B received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN43783272my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1992 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like B&B at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Ref: DRN43783273Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so B&B 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If B&B gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether B&B gave  Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs B, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs B 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs B 
and B&B,  Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs B know they had a choice?
B&B had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  A central  point of the complaint  
here is that Mr and Mrs B were made  to feel the PPI was something they needed to buy. I 
can accept this may be a genuine recollection now, but the paperwork from the time of the 
sale does tend to strongly  show the opposite. 
I see, for example, that the PPI section  of the mortgage application form came with a yes / 
no choice. So Mr and Mrs B would  have been  able select the latter of these options  had 
they wanted to and theyd  have certainly  been able to see the cover was optional,  rather  
than compulsory. There was a yes placed  in the PPI choice section, and I note the costs  of 
the cover  were also hand-written into the space directly below.
Ref: DRN43783274Mr B was also the only person covered by the PPI and I see they stopped  paying  for the PPI 
in 1995. So everything Ive seen  points to a discussion having  taken  place and them 
deciding what they wanted to do. Taking  everything into account,  I think its much  more likely 
that Mr and Mrs B knew the policy was optional and they agreed to take it out without undue  
pressure. 
did B&B  provide advice?
B&B says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  I think thats right because  theres  nothing  
suggesting this in the type of form they completed  or the questions  they were  asked. My 
experience of these  particular  B&B sales from the 1990s is also that they were usually non-
advised. So this means B&B didnt have  to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs B. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable them to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs B were  given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr B 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have 
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be. The cost was also covered  in the relevant forms they signed.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  B&B gave sufficient 
information about the PPIs exclusions or limitations  before Mr and Mrs B agreed to take out 
the policy. So its possible B&B gave Mr and Mrs B insufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered with care how my findings  interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings in 
its guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Bs representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Bs. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Bs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs B about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Ref: DRN43783275Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs B have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that B&B ought to have done either. 
what effect did B&Bs  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs B? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs B suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that B&B possibly didnt  do all it should  have  done when it sold this policy  to Mr 
and Mrs B. So Ive gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude 
they suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs B would  have still taken out the policy, had B&B done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs B say they would not have taken it out and believe I should  presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs B had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr B being  unable to work. 
However, as Ive found Mr and Mrs B chose to take this policy out, I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they may have made  this decision based on incomplete  information. So what  
Mr and Mrs B thought they were getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs B have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
The information Mr and Mrs B were given about  the cost was clear, in my view. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions probably 
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs B thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded certain claims relating  to medical conditions  or symptoms that 
Mr B knew  about  or ought to have known  about  2 years before the start date;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr B be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonable qualified him to do.
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Mr and Mrs B pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
Ref: DRN43783276limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs B from 
taking out the policy.  
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr B was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest Mr B would  
have been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  Mr B didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions,  as defined in the rules, and was in permanent employment.  And if he did 
have any death  in service benefit, its important to say that this  and life insurance - covers 
a different eventuality altogether to the PPI. I also think any redundancy payment in Mr Bs 
situation would have been moderate.  So, I still think Mr B had some  good reasons to take 
the policy out.
If Mr and Mrs B had known Mr B  could only claim for disability if the policyholder was unable 
to do both their job and any similar gainful occupation which  in the insurers view they might 
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr B was unable (through 
disability) to carry on his own occupation  the chances that he would  be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
B&B may not have  been clear enough  with Mr and Mrs B that any claim made  would be 
limited to a 24-month  period. Ive considered how likely this was to have differed from what 
they expected or might  have hoped  for  but 24 months was a much  longer period than Mr B 
would have received full sick pay for. In those  circumstances, I consider it likely Mr and Mrs 
B would still have thought a policy that paid up to 24 monthly  mortgage payments  would  
have been of benefit to them  and would help them manage the consequences should Mr B 
be unable to work in the circumstances covered by the policy.  The policy  allowed for multiple  
claims to be made, it could help reduce their outgoings  at a difficult and uncertain time.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs B would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr B was made redundant, or unable  to work through  accident 
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
Ref: DRN43783277presumed Mr and Mrs B would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Bs circumstances  as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr 
and Mrs B found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would  
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs B believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI in respect of Mr B had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information  
about the policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in 
those circumstances,  to conclude B&B should  pay Mr and Mrs B compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs B think B&B misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
B&Bs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why B&B failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  B&B gave Mr and Mrs B, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1992  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Bs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find B&B negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs B and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that B&B had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs B in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN43783278Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 August  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4378327