K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA)  caused additional damage 
when it carried out repairs under  their home  emergency policy.
background
Mr and Mrs Es policy provides cover for certain unexpected events that, left unresolved, 
could lead to further damage or make  a home unsafe. The policy covers (among other 
things) water pipes that leak suddenly. IPA is the insurer so its responsible  for how the claim 
was handled.  
Mr and Mrs E contacted IPA in February  after discovering a water leak coming through their 
kitchen ceiling. IPA sent a plumber, who Ill call M, to locate and repair the leak. Mr and 
Mrs E say they told M where they thought  the leak was coming from ie between the kitchen 
ceiling and the bathroom floor. M says it couldnt locate the leak so it carried  out trace  and 
access  this involved actions like cutting  holes to access inside the kitchen ceiling  and 
removing the bath. M eventually found the leak and it was repaired.
Mr and Mrs E were  unhappy with what M had done.  They said M caused excessive damage  
to their property when carrying out trace  and access. They  said they suffered a financial loss 
because they had to pay to put right the damage  themselves.  The damage Mr and Mrs E 
say was excessive  included the removal of tiles in the bathroom and damage  to the power  
shower. They complained to IPA and asked for it to cover the cost of the repairs. IPA 
disagreed because Mr E signed a disclaimer agreeing that he and Mrs E would  have to 
cover the cost of putting right any additional  damage caused by M when carrying out trace  
and access. 
Remaining unhappy, Mr and Mrs E asked  this service to step in for an independent review. 
They said Mr E didnt  understand  exactly  what  he was agreeing  to when he signed the 
disclaimer. He believed  he was only signing  to agree for the repair to be carried out. 
Mr and Mrs E added that IPA should have offered them emergency accommodation.
One of our investigators  concluded that IPA should cover the cost of the additional repairs.  
She said an independent surveyor had concluded  that some  of the damage was 
unnecessary and Mr E didnt agree  to unnecessary damage when he signed the disclaimer.  
The investigator asked  IPA why it hadnt  provided emergency accommodation and it 
accepted that it could  have done  so. It also offered to honour this element of the policy if 
Mr and Mrs E ended up paying to stay elsewhere.  The investigator added  that IPA should 
also pay £150 compensation  to Mr and Mrs E for distress and inconvenience.  
IPA disagreed. It said the damage was necessary and that M wouldnt have gone ahead  if 
Mr E didnt agree for the work to be carried out. Because IPA didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree that IPA should cover  the cost of 
the additional damage Mr and Mrs E had to arrange  to repair. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN40021942The relevant  section of the disclaimer explains that there could be ancillary damage caused 
by M in trying  to fix the problem. The document doesnt define what  ancillary damage is but 
does mention it includes decorative,  tile work. It explains that the customer  bears  the 
responsibility and cost of any ancillary damage  and that this type of damage  is necessary in 
order to fix the problem. 
I cant say for certain that Mr E understood  or was aware of this information  when  he signed 
the disclaimer. But I can see that the information  was there. However,  even if Mr E fully 
understood the disclaimer, I dont think he agreed  to the type of ancillary  damage  caused by 
M. As Mr and Mrs E suspected where  the leak was coming from, even if they knew  theyd 
consented to ancillary  damage,  theyd  only expect this to take place within  the area where 
the leak is likely to be located. Mr E says he told M to leave when he realised the wall tiles in 
the bathroom were  being removed. This makes me think its likely Mr E was caught unaware  
when this happened, as it wasnt  within the area where the leak was most likely to be located 
and I think he wouldnt have found it reasonable to call this ancillary damage.
Mr and Mrs E have  only said theyre unhappy  with the additional damage  the damage to 
the bathroom wall and the power  shower. Theyve not indicated that theyre  unhappy that the 
bath was removed  to access the floor or that the kitchen  ceiling was cut in to; as they, rightly, 
believed the leak was somewhere between the two. So even though Mr E signed  the 
disclaimer, I dont think he agreed  to the additional  damage that was caused by M. 
The disclaimer explains  that ancillary  damage is necessary to fix the problem. Im not 
persuaded that the additional damage  caused  by M was necessary. The surveyors  report 
Ive seen says:
the kitchen  ceiling was cut to trace and access the water  leak
the bath was removed to access  the leaking pipe
wall and border tiles were damaged  as well as the casing to the shower unit
The surveyor concluded that the damaged shower  unit casing and the removal of the 
wall/border tiles was unnecessary.  This opinion was based on the surveyors own 
assessment of the damage as well as information  from Mr and Mrs E. The assessment was 
that it would  cost £1,701.66 to repair the unnecessary  damage.
Ive not seen any other independent reviews  of the damage caused by M. So I conclude on 
balance that the additional  damage was unnecessary and I think IPA acted unfairly when it 
didnt agree to cover  the cost of repairing this damage. Mr and Mrs E told us that theyve 
arranged to repair the additional damage themselves at a cost of £1,025  (which  Ive seen the 
receipt for). IPA should refund this amount to fairly  put things right. 
IPA has accepted that it should have offered Mr and Mrs E alternative accommodation. And 
it agreed to honour  this part of the policy. But it doesnt seem like Mr and Mrs E stayed 
elsewhere whilst the repairs  took place so I dont think theyve lost out. So I wont  be asking  
IPA to do anything  different  because of this. 
M caused  additional unnecessary damage  to Mr and Mrs Es property and IPA didnt  agree 
to cover the repairs. Mr and Mrs E are elderly  and would have had to live with the damage  
for some time. They also had to arrange  the repairs themselves. This caused them distress 
and inconvenience.  I understand that Mr E was hospitalised because of a suspected panic 
attack. Whilst I sympathise, I cant say for certain  that this was down to IPA. But IPA 
Ref: DRN40021943certainly didnt do enough  to resolve the issues at the time  so I dont think  this added 
stress was fair. I agree that £150 compensation is a fair way to put this right. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Inter Partner Assistance SA to:
pay Mr and Mrs E £1,025 to cover  the cost of the repairs,  plus interest at a rate of 8% 
simple per annum  (calculated from the date Mr and Mrs E paid the repairer)
pay Mr and Mrs E £150 compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 December  2019. 
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4002194