K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading  as Barclaycard, mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a 
claims management company.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2007.  The policy was added  to 
Miss Hs credit card account  when she applied for the card online. The policy  covered her for 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  Miss H disagreed.  
Her representative said, on her behalf  and in summary, that:
 She wasnt aware of the PPI and wasnt given any information  about it.
 Miss H says if shed  been  given information  about the cost and benefits of the policy, 
she wouldnt have  taken it.
 She kept up with repayments on the card and never went  into arrears, which shows  
she didnt need  PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Hs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Hs complaint because:
As part of the application process, there was a separate section headed  Protect your 
payments. This included equally clear options  to accept or decline PPI. Barclaycards 
records show that Miss H ticked the Yes, I would  like to apply  for Payment Protection 
Insurance  box. So, overall, I think  Barclaycard made  Miss H aware that the PPI was 
optional and that she chose to take it.
Barclaycard didnt advise Miss H to take the policy so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for her. 
Miss H says she wasnt given  any information  about the policy. But the cost was set out 
in the text of the yes box that she ticked (The premium will be 79 pence per £100 of 
the monthly balance on my account). And by ticking the box, she confirmed shed  read 
the payment protection guide which was provided by a link in the PPI section.
Ref: DRN48386332Its possible  the information Barclaycard gave Miss H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Miss H chose  to take out the policy and so appears to have  
wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy  was competitively priced and apparently  affordable.  So I think  it unlikely  
despite what she says now  that Miss H would have  made a different decision if better 
information had been  provided. On balance I think  she would still have taken out the 
policy.
Ive taken into account what Miss Hs representative has said about her not missing  any 
payments or going into arrears. But this doesnt  mean that, when she took out the card,  she 
didnt want to protect herself from the risk that she might not be able to meet  her 
repayments. So this doesnt change my conclusion.
But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss H because: 
Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss H about  that. Because  Barclaycard didnt tell 
Miss H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, does have to pay back to Miss H any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4838633