K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that TSB Bank  plc incorrectly calculated  the interest period on her cash  
ISA. 
.
background
Mr S and his wife both took out an ISA with TSB. He has complained about his ISA and she 
has complained  about hers. These complaints are for separate customers,  although they 
were brought together, and they will result in separate replies. 
Mrs Ss ISA was for a two year period with an interest  rate of 1.6%. It was due to mature  on 
11 April 2018. But when  it matured,  Mrs S said that TSB had calculated  the interest on both 
of the accounts  incorrectly. She complained to TSB about this. She then wrote again,  after 
her husband  had spoken to TSB about his similar  complaint, and hadnt received  a 
satisfactory explanation  about how interest  had been calculated.  
TSBs internal notes  show that it opened Mrs Ss account on 11 April.  She arranged  on that 
day to transfer some  money  from another ISA, with a different provider, as soon as that old 
ISA matured. Although  Mrs S made  the arrangements  for her new ISA in April,  her old ISA 
wasnt due to mature until the start of May, and transferring the money before that date 
wouldve meant that Mrs S would  have to pay a penalty to that other  ISA provider. 
The money arrived with TSB on 6 May.  TSB then paid Mrs S £8.21 to compensate  for loss of 
interest. That was to cover the time between when her old provider closed her account,  and 
the date that her TSB account was credited with the money from that account. This credit 
payment doesnt  show separately on her statements, but TSB has sent us an interest 
calculation which shows that this amount was added to her first interest payment. Mrs Ss 
statements show two interest  payments. Each  one of those was made on the anniversary of 
her account  opening. 
TSB wrote to Mrs S, and it set out how the interest  on her account  had been calculated. It 
explained that her old ISA with the other provider didnt mature until 2 May. So even though 
her account  had been opened on 11 April, the money wasnt transferred to TSB, and she 
didnt start earning  interest on her TSB ISA until 2 May. Mrs S told us that she didnt get that 
letter. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that TSB had provided Mrs S with a 
written explanation of the interest  rate calculation on her account, and that calculation was 
right. Our adjudicator  said that she knew that Mrs S had told us that this explanation was 
never received, but our adjudicator said that she thought it had been sent by TSB. And it 
wouldnt be TSBs fault if it wasnt received. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that TSB had done anything  wrong.  So she didnt think  it had to 
do anything more on this complaint. 
Mrs S didnt agree with that. She said that her husbands complaint had been upheld,  but 
hers had not. And she didnt think that was fair. She said that the phone call that her 
husband received from TSB, when TSB got the interest calculation  wrong,  was on behalf  of 
them both.  So she thought that they had both been  misled. 
Ref: DRN44309382Mrs S also said that the ISA that TSB opened  for her had been opened with a nil balance, 
and had stayed  at nil for almost three  weeks, until the money from her previous ISA provider 
had been transferred across. She said that TSBs  terms and conditions set out that it wont 
open an account with less than £3,000.
Because Mrs S didnt  agree  with our adjudicator, the case  was passed to me for a final 
decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-When TSB rang Mr S, it ran through security so that it was sure it was talking to him. But 
he was clear on that call that the concern had been raised  on behalf of both himself and 
Mrs S. TSB continued with the call, and appeared only to deal with Mr Ss complaint. But 
I did think it was reasonable for Mrs S to say that the information obtained on that call 
misled her too. Her circumstances were identical to Mr S, other than the amounts 
transferred. And TSB seems to have treated this call as part of resolving Mrs Ss 
complaint as well, because it actually compensated her for the costs of this call too.
-So I didnt think it was quite right to say that TSB never misled Mrs S. I did think that the 
mistakes it made  in explaining  Mr Ss interest  were likely to have  affected  Mrs S too, and 
I thought TSB should reasonably have been aware  of that. I thought  that had affected 
Mrs Ss confidence in the bank.  And that meant that TSB should pay Mrs S some  
compensation for the upset that this issue has caused her. 
-But TSB then sent Mrs S a letter which set out what had actually happened on her 
account. And that letter  was right. So I thought  that TSB acted to put its mistake  right for 
Mrs S, before she needed to contact this service. That meant  that I thought the 
appropriate amount  of compensation in this case was £50.
-I knew that Mrs S told us she didnt get that letter.  But, like our adjudicator, I thought that 
it was sent. And TSB used the right address. So it wouldnt  be TSBs fault if that wasnt  
received. 
-Mrs S also said that TSB was in breach of its own terms and conditions  when it opened  
her account, because it was opened with a nil balance. But I thought that Mrs S had 
arranged to transfer a large  amount of money,  at the same time as the account  was 
opened. So I didnt  think that it was unreasonable for TSB to open that account while that 
transfer was pending.  
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mrs S wrote to accept my decision. TSB wrote to make further  representations  on the case. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
TSB has provided one response to these two complaints. But I noted  in my provisional 
decision that these  are separate complaints, and part of what  had gone wrong here seemed 
Ref: DRN44309383to me to have happened because TSB didnt treat these complaints separately. I have  
endeavoured to separate its response, where  I can.
TSB said that as part of Mrs Ss decision I thought it was acceptable  to consider the phone  
call to Mr S, which she didnt experience.  It said that this was inconsistent with my position  
on Mr Ss complaint, and it felt that this was somewhat unfair. It wanted me to reconsider 
that. 
TSB said that it was actually Mr S who misled Mrs S, not TSB. He told her the interest 
calculation was wrong and he told her the phone call was frustrating and didnt resolve his 
query. Mrs S raised a complaint and received an accurate explanation. So TSB didnt feel it 
was reasonable  to compensate Mrs S because of the actions of a third party.  
Ive listened to that call again. Mr S sets out at the start that hes dealing with complaints for 
both himself and his wife. TSBs call handler  responded  OK, yes then proceeded with the 
call. I dont think theres any suggestion in my provisional decision that TSB wrongly shared 
Mrs Ss data with Mr S on this call. But it doesnt seem to me to be consistent with the call 
Ive listened to for TSB to say now that it was dealing only with Mr Ss complaint on that call. 
We know that the information  given on the call to Mr S was wrong. I think that Mr S had been 
clear that he was dealing with two complaints. Looking  at the case  as a whole, it seems that 
TSB may have been treating this call as a response to both his and Mrs Ss complaints. But 
at the very least, it knew that Mr S was doing  so, and didnt challenge that. So I dont think  
that, if Mr S passed on the information  from that call to Mrs S, that its reasonable to say that 
Mr S is the one who misled Mrs S. 
TSB wanted to highlight  that:
the interest calculation  is and always  was correct
Mr and Mrs S had all of the necessary information available to them  before their 
complaints were raised.
TSB thought it was reasonable to think that they could have worked out why there was a 
difference and that the interest was correct.  
TSBs argument is that Mrs S couldve worked  this out herself if shed  studied  the relevant  
documentation in detail. But I dont think its unreasonable for Mrs S, two years  after her 
account had been opened, not to have  a clear recollection of how interest on the account 
would be paid. And I dont think its unreasonable for her to simply ask TSB that question.
TSB accepted that its call handlers explanation to Mr S was poor,  but it said that it can be 
difficult to explain something like this to a customer who is in an entrenched position.  I have  
listened again to this call, and its my view that the call handler had no difficulty  setting out 
her position  as it then was. Mr S wasnt seeking to argue his corner.  He said that he wasnt 
checking what she said at the time, so he just noted  it. The explanation was simply wrong.
TSB felt the original  adjudication was appropriate. There was no error with the interest and it 
felt that a total of £150  because thats  effectively  what I had awarded  was too high to 
reflect any shortcomings  in the explanation Mr S had been  given.  
I appreciate that there was in fact no mistake made on Mrs Ss interest calculation, and that 
the only written explanation  addressed directly  to her was correct. But Ive explained why I 
think that TSB shouldve  expected that its explanation on its call to Mr S would be passed on 
Ref: DRN44309384to Mrs S. So, as that explanation was wrong, both she and Mr S were initially  provided with 
incorrect information.
And I would flag again  that these are two separate complaints. In this case, I think  it is 
reasonable to award £50 for TSBs  initially poor handling of Mrs Ss complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc must pay Mrs S £50 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4430938