K820x#14complaint
Mr B complained that when he claimed under  his motorcycle insurance policy,  Ageas 
Insurance Limited didnt handle his claim properly.  
background
Mr B had an accident  and Ageas decided that his motorcycle was uneconomical to repair.  
They offered him its market value less his policy excess, plus an amount for an alarm, 
immobiliser and tracker  (which Ill together call the security devices)  fitted  to his motorcycle, 
taking into account  depreciation. They also agreed  that he could keep his motorcycle. But if 
so, they would deduct its salvage value from the market  value.
He wasnt  happy with Ageass valuation  of his motorcycle  including the security  devices. He 
wanted them  to reimburse  him the full cost of having  had those fitted. He didnt agree with 
Ageas categorising his motorcycle  as a Category N loss. And he wasnt  happy with their 
proposed salvage deduction.  He also said that the situation had caused him money  
difficulties. This was because he said hed incurred extra costs, for transport to work when 
he couldnt  use his motorcycle, and for storing it. Ageas stood by their decision, but they 
were willing  to pay Mr B their settlement amount on an interim basis, while he complained to 
us. But he didnt want to accept that. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld.  She thought  that 
Ageas hadnt  acted  unreasonably. As Mr B didnt agree with the investigators opinion,  his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. The investigator also explained  to Mr B that he 
could accept Ageass  market value offer payment while  we were  considering his case, and it 
wouldnt prevent  him getting more if thats  what we decided.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B had an accident in about July 2018  and his motorcycle was damaged. Hes told us that 
he was injured too, and needed to take time off of work, and when he returned to work he 
had to use taxis to get there. He said hed got into financial difficulties. 
Ageas had their engineer inspect  his motorcycle. I see that under his policy Ageas have 
discretion to decide that his motorcycle was uneconomical to repair but that it was a 
Category N loss, which means that it could be repaired and sold.  They decided  that based  
on their engineers report. 
Ageas then offered  him £3,450 for his motorcycles market value plus an additional  £400  for 
the security devices fitted, less his policy excess of £300.  As Mr B still had the motorcycle,  
they said that their offer was subject to him giving them the motorcycle, with the security 
devices, undamaged. This was because Mr B said he would remove the security  devices if 
they didnt  reimburse  him for them in full, and this might  inadvertently damage the 
motorcycle. Alternatively Ageas  said that Mr B could keep the motorcycle and theyd deduct  
the motorcycles  salvage value from their market value  offer.  This was because they were 
entitled to keep  it and sell it for salvage.  They said that the salvage deduction was £1,001.  
Mr B wanted the settlement payment and to keep the motorcycle, but without any salvage 
deduction.
Ref: DRN49637642 
Ageas relied on a report by their qualified engineer whod inspected the motorcycle. Mr B 
didnt agree with it, felt the engineer was biased as he worked for Ageas, and wanted them 
to get a second  opinion. But I think that the report  is a professional opinion which  is 
comprehensive, clear and reasoned.  Just because the engineer worked for the insurer 
doesnt mean it biased. And Ageas arent under  any obligation to get a second opinion.
As the investigator suggested to Mr B it was open to him to obtain  a report  himself, in case  it 
might contradict Ageass engineers report. But he said he wouldnt be able to cover the cost 
of a report if he couldnt  guarantee he would recover the cost. As he didnt obtain  an 
alternative expert report, theres no evidence to contradict Ageass engineers report.  So on 
the evidence available to Ageas, I think that they were  acting reasonably  to rely on the 
expert report and treat his motorcycle as uneconomical to repair and as a Category N loss.
Under his policy he is entitled to the market value  of his motorcycle. He was unhappy  with 
what they offered  him for his motorcycles market value including the security devices.  He 
said that he couldnt find a like for like one for what Ageas had offered him. 
We dont decide what a motorcycle  or its additional items are worth.  But in any event the 
investigator did check the motor guides  that are used to value second-hand motorcycles  and 
which we think are a reliable indication as to value as theyre based on nationwide research 
of motorcycle likely selling  prices.  The investigator has looked  at the trade  guides  valuations,  
taking into account the motorcycles  mileage, condition  and specification and features  and 
she felt that the market value Ageas offered  was fair as it was in line with the trade guides. 
So I think that Ageass  market value offer is reasonable.
Regarding the security devices, Mr B wanted  Ageas to reimburse  him the full price  of them, 
pay for them to be professionally removed, or let him remove them at no cost to himself. He 
said that if he removed  it himself the motorcycle might  get damaged, though that wouldnt be 
intentional. 
Ageas did at first question whether the security devices were fitted, as Mr B couldnt produce 
an invoice  for their purchase  and fitting.  However  they then accepted  that they were there.  I 
dont think  that was unreasonable because theyre entitled to get proof of that. Ageas offered 
him £400 for them. Ageas said he wasnt entitled to new devices, only to their value 
immediately before the incident happened. And I can see that his policy  says that the most 
Ageas will pay is the market value of his motorcycle, accessories and spare  parts at the time 
of the loss or damage. Ageas couldnt  prove by invoices  exactly how much hed paid for the 
security devices. The investigator  phoned  the person who had installed them  on Mr Bs 
motorcycle. He said theyd  cost about £500 new. Ageass engineer advised them  that the 
value of a good quality  version of these  devices was about £400.  
As Mr Bs devices were not brand new and were already  fitted, I think it was reasonable for 
them to decide  that they wouldnt be worth  as much as new ones. And without any different  
expert evidence  produced by Mr B to contradict or challenge the Ageas view,  I cant  say 
thats an unreasonable amount for their market value.  And I dont think  that Ageas are under 
any obligation to have the devices  removed or let Mr B do so.   
Mr B was also unhappy about  Ageass proposed salvage deduction if he kept the 
motorcycle. We think  its reasonable when an insurer pays a market value  for a vehicle, that 
they can keep  it and sell it for salvage,  as that will often have a value. 
Ref: DRN49637643So if an insurer  agrees to a consumer  keeping the motorcycle,  we also think  that its 
reasonable for them to make a deduction  from the market value offer to reflect the 
motorcycles salvage value. That charge can be a percentage of the motorcycles  market 
value, but it shouldnt be unreasonably  high.
Ageas said that their usual salvage charge for this motorcycle  would be 32% of its value, 
and that they based this on actual salvage prices theyd received. This is what they said 
motorcycles of this value  could be sold for in the open market.  It was also close to the 
salvage value  their engineer had advised.  But they said theyd reduce this to 26% to try to 
resolve the matter  with Mr B. But Mr B still felt that was too much as he thought  that his 
motorcycle was structurally damaged and shouldnt have been a Category N write off. But 
for the reasons Ive given  above,  I cant say that Ageas were unreasonable  to decide that 
categorisation. And Ageas have  shown that the salvage value they want  to deduct here was 
reasonable. He felt that he would be happier to give Ageas the motorcycle if they scrapped it 
rather than resold  it as he didnt want Ageas to profit  from it. But I dont  think  that it would be 
reasonable to impose any restriction on what Ageas do in this regard, as I dont think  that 
they have done anything  wrong.
I appreciate that the accident  and its aftermath will have been  upsetting  for Mr B, particularly 
as hes told us he was injured. However, I dont think that Ageas have been unreasonable  in 
how theyve  handled his claim. It follows that even if Mr B has incurred costs, for transport to 
work when he couldnt use his motorcycle, and for storing it, I dont think  Ageas are liable for 
that. Theyve offered him payment  of his motorcycle early on, and have explained that 
accepting it wouldnt  prevent him from receiving more, depending on the outcome of his 
complaint. They realised  that this could have helped him with any money worries he might  
have. So overall I dont  think that they have  acted unfairly and so I dont ask them  to do any 
more. 
my final decision
For the reasons,  Ive given above  its my final decision that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4963764