K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Scottish Equitable Plc delayed the payment of his pension.
background
Mr B held a pension policy with Scottish Equitable and it notified him in the summer of 2017 
that he could start his pension in late December 2017. It received his notification of 
retirement form on 20 October 2017  and on the same day it sent him his retirement 
illustration. Scottish  Equitable doesnt  provide annuities and it outsourced this to another  
provider I will call L.
Mr B says he sent the necessary  forms and identification documents  to both Scottish  
Equitable and L on 23 November 2017. He received confirmation from L that his application 
had been received and his pension would be payable from 28 December. He says he wasnt 
expecting his first payment to begin  immediately  and he didnt chase up Scottish Equitable  
until February.
Scottish Equitable  says that it was told of Mr Bs claim  on 21 December. It carried  out a third 
party check  on his bank  account and this failed so it wrote to him to ask for a certified  bank 
statement. Mr B has explained that there was some concern  regarding  his account so he 
opened a second account with his bank. Mr B wanted his tax free lump sum paid into one 
account and the monthly  annuity into another. It seems this added  to the confusion within 
Scottish Equitable  as to the status  of his bank accounts.
In February Mr B complained and said that he had sent in his identification  details in 
November and Scottish Equitable hadnt  acted  on these.  He also said the letter  sent by it in 
early January wasnt received until February. Because of its concerns about his bank 
account Scottish Equitable said that it would  send him his tax free lump sum by cheque. It 
did so in late February, but this wasnt delivered.  Mr B has explained  that he has been away 
from home frequently looking after elderly  relatives and so he wasnt there to sign for it. He 
also says he has no record of any delivery  being attempted.
Scottish Equitable  has said that it released  the remaining funds to L in order  for it to 
commence paying  his regular annuity  in February 2018. His lump sum has yet to be paid.
Mr B has also explained  that he has spent considerable  amount of time making calls to
Scottish Equitable  and sending letters in order to ensure  his pension was paid without  delay. 
He also offered to travel  to Edinburgh to collect his cheque, but this offer was declined.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who recommend it be upheld. He 
set out the timeline of events and noted that Scottish  Equitable would have been aware from 
the email from L in late December that Mr B wanted his pension  to be paid. Mr B had also 
spoken to Scottish  Equitable in October and again on 12 December to discuss potential 
delays due to the pension  beginning  during  the Christmas period. The investigator thought 
the business ought to have been aware  that Mr B was seeking  to start his pension in late 
December.
He was also satisfied  that Mr B had sent the forms and identification to Scottish Equitable  in 
November 2017  and he had not seen any explanation as to why these had not been  
received. He also noted that L had written to Mr B to tell him that it would set up his annuity 
Ref: DRN46874332on 20 December 2017 and he thought that as it was acting  on Scottish Equitables  behalf  
this gave Mr B comfort that all was in hand.
Overall he didnt think the response from Scottish Equitable that it was operating  within its 
service standards  took proper account  of Mr Bs situation. He also didnt think  the fact Mr B 
had used two bank accounts,  one to receive the lump sum and the other to receive the 
annuity payments,  was grounds for delay. Overall, he didnt believe Mr B had been  treated 
fairly and he suggested the business  pay him compensation of £500  and that it also pay 
interest on the lump  sum of 8% simple from the date the cheque was issued in February 
2018 until it was paid.
The business didnt  agree and said it was only aware of Mr Bs application on 21 December 
when this was passed on by L. It said its record of the call on 12 December didnt note any 
reference to Mr B having sent in the required identification documentation.  It said that 
although it had his notification of retirement  form it didnt chase policyholders up for 
additional material. It said there were concerns about the bank details and the fact he was 
using two accounts which caused  it to query  matters.
It also provided call recordings, but the investigator identified these didnt cover the key 
disputed issues. For his part Mr B said that he wanted to ensure he didnt lose out as a result 
of the delays and he wasnt driven  by compensation. I issued provisional decision as follows: 
It seemed to me that Scottish Equitable had approached this from the perspective that 
whatever is done  must fit with its procedures and I didnt believe it had shown much in the 
way of flexibility. Nor did I think it has taken responsibility in a way that I believed it should  
have done.
I added that because Scottish Equitable  didnt  offer the guaranteed annuity  and it effectively 
outsourced this to L this didnt mean that it shouldnt take responsibility for ensuring the 
process worked properly  for Mr B. I considered it should have worked to try and ensure that 
Mr B received his pension  at the time he indicated he wanted  to.
I believed that it was clear  that Mr B wanted  to take his pension  as soon as it was available. 
He completed the forms and asked that he be paid a lump sum and the balance  be put 
towards his annuity.  He also made  several  calls to both Scottish Equitable  and L.
Scottish Equitable  wrote to him on 2 January thanking  him for his recent correspondence 
and asking for documentary confirmation  of his identity. I could only assume  the recent 
correspondence it mentions was Mr Bs letter of 23 November. I was aware that L had 
emailed Scottish Equitable on 21 December to let it know  of Mr Bs claim,  but I thought it 
unlikely this was the correspondence  that led to the 2 January  letter. Even if this wasnt  the 
case I was persuaded  that Mr B wrote  to Scottish Equitable  on 23 November enclosing  the 
relevant documentation.
He had provided this service with copies of the passport and bank  statement which were 
stamped as being certified on 22 November. I was satisfied  these  were  included in his letter 
of 23 November which I believe  was correctly addressed. I believed it most likely that this 
letter went  astray  within  Scottish Equitable. Mr B said he used the freepost address he was 
given and Scottish Equitable has said the forms should have gone to its claims department.  
Even if the forms didnt  go to the preferred address of the business I thought it should have 
been able to forward these to the right department without delay.
Ref: DRN46874333If it had acted on his 23 November letter I didnt consider Mr B would have suffered the 
delays he later encountered. I noted  that the business says that he didnt check  to see if the 
pension had been received until February. It could be said that the business  didnt  check  
why it hadnt been paid since  it was aware  that Mr B wanted to take his pension.
While I considered Scottish Equitable contributed to the delay I thought  that payment of the 
pension would have  also been delayed due to the issues around Mr Bs bank account. As 
such I couldnt safely conclude that it would have  begun  on 28 December. I thought  Mr B 
recognised that.
The effect of the delay  had been  to increase Mr Bs pension by some  £66 a year. But I 
believed it should  have begun about a month  earlier. Given his annual pension  was some 
£34,800 I said it would take many  years for him to make up the loss due to the delay in 
beginning his pension.
I was aware that he had yet to receive  his lump sum and this too has been a frustration for 
Mr B. He wanted his pension and his lump sum paid into different bank accounts.  I couldnt 
see anywhere in the paperwork provided which says the tax free lump sum and the pension 
payments have to be made to the same account. I also note that Mr B had been travelling to 
look after elderly  relatives and this has meant he has not been at home to sign for letters.
Mr B offered  to visit the Scottish  Equitable  offices to sort it out, but this doesnt  seem to fit 
with its processes. I couldnt  see why it wasnt possible for a means  to be found  to make the 
payment even if it wasnt what Scottish  Equitable  normally does.
I agreed with the investigator that the complaint should be upheld, but I thought that the 
redress should be calculated differently.  In broad terms I thought Mr B had lost out one 
months worth of pension  due to delays by Scottish Equitable. I believed the business should 
pay Mr B £2,904.27 less tax, at Mr Bs effective  rate for the tax year 2017/2018  to reflect its 
contribution to the delay. I said it also should pay him interest  at 8% on this sum from the 
date it should  have been paid until date it is paid.
I didnt consider Scottish Equitable need  pay him any compensation as he would benefit  
from the additional £60 a year. I also thought the business should  pay 8% simple per annum 
on his tax free lump  sum from when  the cheque was issued in February 2018 to when the 
money arrives  in his account.
Mr B accepted my provisional decision and told us that the business had tried to send a 
cheque by courier, but as he wasnt at home this had been undelivered. However, on 24 
June it deposited  a cheque into his local bank branch. He wondered why it didnt do this a 
year ago. He added that he hadnt  provided  any more  security information in the last year.  
Mr B sent confirmation that his effective rate of tax was 20% in 2017/18.
Scottish Equitable  didnt  agree. It said that the evidence  didnt point  to Mr B wanting his 
pension around  the end of December. He had spoken to the business about  various  options  
including deferring  his pension. It said it was first aware Mr B wanted to take his pension  on 
21 January, but I presume  it meant  21 December. It said there  was no evidence  that Mr Bs 
letter of 22 November had been  received.
As for the lump sum payment it had a duty of care to ensure the payment was made the right 
person. The bank account Mr B had failed checks and so it tried to deliver it to his home 
address. It though  it unusual for a customer not be available over an 18 month period. It 
Ref: DRN46874334confirmed it had found a solution  and had paid it in via a local branch. It wondered what this 
service would recommend  it should  have done.  It also asked that I justify the interest 
element of my provisional decision and the rate of 8%.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would say at the outset  that the role of this service  is to informally  settle disputes and not to 
tell businesses what processes to use. As such I wont offer the advice requested  by the 
business.
I think the key issue  is the submission  of the letter dated 23 November. Scottish Equitable  
takes the view that as it cannot trace receipt of it that it mustnt have been sent or it wasnt  
received. I am not so persuaded.  The information given by Mr B supports the conclusion that 
it was sent at the same time as the letter to L. He has been reliable and credible in his 
submissions and I have  no reason to disbelieve him. My role is to make a decision based  on 
the evidence and on the balance of probabilities I accept  the letter was sent and was, most 
likely, later lost within  Scottish Equitable.
The fact that Mr B was considering a range of options  doesnt  demonstrate  that he wanted to 
defer his pension. Any sensible customer would want to give due to consideration to what 
was a significant decision, but that doesnt show that he was seriously seeking to defer  his 
pension. 
I recognise that the business has a duty if care and the point  I made in my decision was that 
it could have been more flexible given  Mr Bs circumstances. I appreciate it has recently 
found a solution and while I dont  want to use that against the business  it does  give cause for 
thought as to why that solution  couldnt have been found a long time ago.
Mr B has been deprived of this money and has sought alternative solutions including  offering 
to travel a significant distance to Scottish  Equitables  offices to collect the cheque.  It is only 
right he be paid interest in recognition of being  deprived of his money.  The rate this service 
uses is 8% and I dont propose to cover the reasons  behind  this in an individual decision.  
In conclusion, I believe my initial recommendations should stand.
Ref: DRN46874335my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Scottish Equitable  Plc to pay 
Mr B a months pension  of £2,904.27  less tax at his effective rate of 20%, plus interest at 8% 
simple and pay interest at 8% simple on the lump sum from the date the first cheque  was 
issued in February 2018 until it was paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4687433