K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the handling of his claim by Zurich  Insurance  PLC. 
background
Mr M holds  a marine policy with Zurich. Following engine damage due to bad weather he 
made a claim. This was eventually declined, but Mr M considered  that he had been led to 
believe that his claim would be met, so wanted  the full value of the claim.  Zurich didnt agree 
so he complained to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter, but did not uphold the complaint. So the case 
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I too wont be upholding the complaint, for roughly  the same reasons as the adjudicator. 
From the papers  I have it seems clear  that all sides now agree that the actual underlying  
claim isnt valid.  There  were  conditions in the cover about winter care of the boat and these 
werent met, so the claim fails. So what I have to consider is if Mr M was misled over 
whether the claim  was going to be met enough  that Zurich should  pay it, or at least  some  
proportion of it. And I am not persuaded of this. 
Mr Bs claim was investigated and a report commissioned. There is a call which  I accept is 
reassuring over the progress of the claim,  but it does say that the report  is being  waited  on 
and certainly doesnt confirm the claim will definitely be paid.  I equally agree  there  was a gap 
after that in which Mr M didnt hear anything,  but I dont agree  that was reason enough to go 
ahead with some £12,000  of repairs.  I wouldnt have  faulted Mr B if he had complained 
about the delay then,  had the boat still been  awaiting  repair, and I would have awarded him 
compensation for that loss of use, but I dont think it is reasonable to go ahead  with such  
expensive repairs without  actual confirmation that the claim would be met. 
Mr B has another issue, the way his complaint was handled by the same person  who dealt 
with his claim. As our adjudicator explained this isnt prohibited  and with small firms or 
specialised areas  it isnt unheard of. However, I did bear this in mind when looking at the 
evidence from the business, but I could find no sign that he had been treated unfairly 
because of these  circumstances.  
So, whilst I agree the phone call could have been better, and the business might have been 
able to tell Mr B his claim was being  rejected earlier, I dont think  he could reasonably  
assume a £12,000  claim would be met just because  they had said things were  looking ok, 
and didnt get back to him. I note the £150  offered for the poor communication and think that 
is enough. 
Ref: DRN43351962my final decision
I make  no award against Zurich Insurance PLC. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4335196