K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited didnt complete a 
benefits form for their secured loan,  as they asked  it to. 
They want  Kensington to write off their arrears,  and pay compensation for the way its 
treated them.   
background
Mr and Mrs B had a mortgage and a secured loan with Kensington. They had split up, and 
Mrs B lost her job and was ill. Both the mortgage account and the secured loan account 
went into arrears.
Kensington sent Mr and Mrs B quarterly arrears letters for both the mortgage and the 
secured loan.
Mrs B applied for benefits and was sent two forms, one for each loan. Mrs B was told to 
send these to Kensington  for the lender to confirm information about the loans, and return  
the forms to the Department for Work  and Pensions (DWP).
Theres a dispute  about what happened next:
-Mrs B said she sent the forms in one envelope  in March 2017. Kensington returned  
the mortgage form, as she hadnt put her surname on it. Mrs B said she returned  it to 
Kensington on 28 April. 
-Kensington said it had only received one form  the mortgage form. And it completed 
this and sent it on to DWP.
On 5 June 2017, DWP  sent Mrs B a letter confirming it was going  to make payments to 
Kensington. The letter quoted the mortgage  account number and said how much it was 
going to pay direct to the lender. 
In June 2018, Mr and Mrs B complained to this service. They said Kensington hadnt 
completed the form for the secured loan and sent it to DWP. They  said that as a result theyd 
incurred arrears which they wanted Kensington  to remove.
This service can only consider a complaint if consumers have first complained  to the bank, 
and given them a chance to respond. So the complaint was forwarded to Kensington.
Kensington didnt  uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. It confirmed that it was receiving DWP  
contributions towards Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage, but not towards the secured loan. It said 
that all DWP contributions  and discussions were between the borrower  and DWP. It pointed  
out that DWP contributions wouldnt always be for the full amount of a contractual monthly 
payment. And it said it had sent quarterly arrears  statements, as well as a letter prior to 
sending out a field agent.
Mr and Mrs B werent satisfied. Mrs B said shed thought the allowance was for the 
mortgage and the secured loan. She said she didnt realise it was only for the mortgage, until 
there were over £2,000 of arrears  on the secured loan. Mrs B said that shed since  sent 
Kensington a DWP  form for the secured loan, and benefits were  now being paid on that. She 
Ref: DRN40059652said it was Kensingtons  fault that DWP  didnt start making payments to the secured loan 
sooner. So she wanted the arrears written off. 
Mrs B also wanted compensation for the way Kensington had treated her. And she 
complained that Kensington  had been  saying it received  payments  from DWP  monthly, when 
in fact DWP paid Kensington every  four weeks.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. He said that whatever  had 
happened about the forms,  the arrears statements which Kensington sent would have  shown 
Mr and Mrs B that DWP wasnt  contributing to the secured loan. Kensington had been 
asking Mr and Mrs B to pay for the full monthly payment, so the adjudicator thought  Mr and 
Mrs B would have been aware. 
And the June 2017 letter  from DWP, which told Mrs B how much  it would pay, had quoted 
the mortgage account number, not the secured loan account number. So the adjudicator 
said Mrs B would have been  aware of what DWP planned to pay.
Mrs B wasnt  satisfied.  She said that the adjudicator hadnt looked at her complaint properly. 
Shed sent two forms for Kensington  to complete  so that DWP payments could be 
authorised, but Kensington  had only processed the one for the mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive set out above, theres  a direct conflict of evidence  between Mrs B, who says she sent 
two forms to Kensington in one envelope,  and Kensington,  which  says it only ever received 
one. I dont have  anything to prove what happened here. So I cant make a definite  finding 
about what happened.
But I do have evidence  about what happened  after this point. DWP wrote to Mrs B on 5 June 
2017, telling  her how much it would  pay, and it quoted  her mortgage account number. Mrs B 
has told us that she assumed  this payment was for both accounts. But when DWP only 
quoted one of the two account numbers, I think its reasonable to expect Mrs B to have 
queried it, and checked  whether she was indeed getting money for both accounts. 
Also, Kensington did correspond with Mr and Mrs B about the arrears. Ive seen a copy  of a 
letter which it sent to them about the secured  loan account, asking for the full monthly 
payment because it hadnt  been paid. And Ive also seen a quarterly arrears statement for 
the secured loan account, which set out what had been payable,  and the fact that nothing  
had been received. So again I think its reasonable to expect Mrs B to have queried this. I 
recognise that she had health issues, and it was a stressful time for her. I sympathise, but 
ultimately it is the responsibility  of borrowers to check and maintain their accounts.  
Mrs B has also complained because Kensington told her that it was getting money from 
DWP monthly, when in fact it was every four weeks. I recognise that Mrs B found this 
annoying, but I dont find that she suffered any financial loss because  of this terminology.  It 
didnt make any difference to the amount of the payments DWP  was sending. Nor did it 
make any difference  to the amount of the arrears on Mr and Mrs Bs accounts.
Ref: DRN40059653my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2019.  
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4005965