K820x#14complaint
Halifax Insurance Ireland Limited (HIIL) sold this policy, but St Andrews Insurance plc (St 
Andrews) has accepted responsibility for the sale. Because of this, St Andrews Insurance 
plc has also agreed  it is responsible for the complaint. To make  things easier  Ive referred  to 
St Andrews  throughout my assessment.
Mr B says St Andrews  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mr B took out a PPI policy in 2004 and paid a monthly amount for it. It provided cover  if Mr B 
couldnt work because of accident or sickness and it provided some  life cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
I dont doubt that Mr B has given us his best recollections of the events of 2004. Ive thought  
carefully about what he said, including that he didnt think  he agreed to the PPI. St Andrews 
has denied this. I think St Andrews made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI 
and they chose to take it out. In saying this Ive considered that to get the cover  Mr B had to 
complete a separate application  form that was sent after hed applied for the loan. So, I think 
it more likely that Mr B agreed  to the PPI and knew this was something he didnt have  to 
take out, even  if he cant  remember that now. 
St Andrews  said it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B. Mr B also doubts that a personalised 
recommendation was made to him. So, it seems more likely that this was a non-advised 
sale. This means that St Andrews didnt need  to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr B. 
But it did have to provide information  that was sufficient so that Mr B could  decide  for himself 
if the cover  was right for him. 
I dont know how clear  St Andrews made the key information to Mr B but I dont think  that 
better information would  have  put him off the policy. I say this because:
Mr B was eligible  for the policy and wouldnt have  been affected by any of the terms 
which mightve made it more difficult for him to make a claim. 
Mr B said he wouldve got good sick pay for six months but that this dropped significantly 
after that and Mr B told us he had no other means he could have  relied on in that 
instance. The policy provided cover in the event that Mr B was too ill to work for up to 
12 months. So, considering all of this, I think Mr B couldve  found the policy  useful.
Ref: DRN48960502The policy cost and the benefit  amount appears to have been  clearly stated on the 
acceptance form. 
So I dont  think that Mr B has lost out as a result  of anything that St Andrews did wrong. I 
dont think more or better information wouldve made a difference to Mr Bs decision to buy 
the cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.  And I make no award against 
St Andrews  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4896050