K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Connells Limited mis-sold a payment  protection  insurance (PPI)
policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy  sold in 2002  in connection with a
mortgage. The policy was intended  to provide  cover for Mr and Mrs M if they couldnt work
because of accident,  sickness  and unemployment.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 29 January 2019. Ive summarised my 
provisional findings below:
I was mindful that this was a joint policy that covered both Mr and Mrs M. I agreed 
with Connells that Mr M wasnt eligible  for the PPI when he and Mrs M took it out 
 so it was mis-sold.
Id seen nothing  to suggest that if Mr and Mrs M had realised Mr M wasnt  eligible 
for the policy,  they wouldve taken out cover for Mrs M alone. They were buying  a 
house together, so I thought it was likely they would both wish to be covered. 
They thought  they were  getting  a joint policy and I considered thats what  they 
wanted. 
I thought it was unlikely that Mr and Mrs M wouldve bought  the policy if theyd
known Mr M wasnt  eligible for it.
Mr and Mrs M agreed with my provisional  findings. 
Connells said it didnt agree with my provisional findings. It said,  in summary, that there was 
nothing to show that Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have bought the PPI for Mrs M alone  if theyd 
known Mr M wasnt  eligible for it.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive thought about everything Connells has said. But as I said in my provisional decision,  Mr 
and Mrs M were buying a house together and on balance I still think  its likely that they 
wanted joint cover. So I remain  of the view that its unlikely they wouldve bought the policy if 
theyd known Mr M wasnt eligible  for it.
Overall, Im not persuaded to depart  from the position set out in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN44110192what Connells  should do to put things  right
Connells should put Mr and Mrs M in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken out
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Connells
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount  they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Connells can take off
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Connells to take off tax from this interest. Connells must
give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Connells Limited to pay compensation to 
Mr and Mrs M in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4411019