K820x#14complaint
Ms Os complained about two instalment loans she took out with Gain  Credit LLC (trading as 
Lending Stream). She says that the loans  were unaffordable and Lending Stream ought to 
have realised this.
background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Ms O and Lending Stream  had told us. And she 
thought that the checks Lending  Stream carried out before giving Ms O her loans were  
proportionate. So she didnt uphold Ms Os complaint.  Ms O disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  short  term lending on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me 
decide Ms Os complaint.  
Ms O was provided with high-interest loans, intended for short-term use. So Lending  Stream 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what  this means is 
that Lending Stream needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Ms O before providing it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im not upholding Ms Os 
complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Ms O took out a first instalment loan for £200 in December 2012. The loan was to be repaid 
over a period  of around six months. A few days later Ms O took a second  loan,  this time for 
£165, which was due to be repaid in five months.  I understand that Ms O hasnt repaid either 
loan. 
Lending Stream says it agreed to Ms Os application after shed provided  details  of her 
monthly income and expenditure.  It says the information Ms O provided  on her income and 
expenditure showed that shed be able to comfortably  make the repayments she was 
committing to. And in these circumstances  it was reasonable to lend. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Ms O and Lending Stream have said. The first thing for me 
to say is that these  loans  were Ms Os first loans with Lending Stream.  Ms O did take her 
second loan while her first one was outstanding. But at best I can only say that this was an 
Ref: DRN40915202emerging pattern  not an established  one. So I dont think  there was any established 
pattern in Ms Bs borrowing needs at this stage.
The information provided does suggest that Ms O was asked to provide details of her 
income and expenditure. Bearing in mind the amount  of the monthly repayment, the 
questions Lending  Stream asked  Ms O and these  were  Ms Os first loans, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Lending Stream to rely on the information Ms O was providing.
I accept that Ms Os actual circumstances  may not have been reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the other information Lending Stream  obtained  especially in 
terms of other short-term loan she had with other  providers. And Im sorry to hear that Ms O 
was struggling financially  and repaying these  loans has proved difficult. But Lending Stream  
could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the time. And, at 
this stage of the lending  relationship, I dont think  proportionate checks  wouldve extended 
into Lending Stream asking  Ms O to evidence what she was declaring.  
Equally I can only uphold a complaint where  I can safely  say a lender  did something wrong. 
And, in this case,  I dont think that Lending Stream did anything  wrong  in deciding to lend to 
Ms O - it carried  out proportionate checks even though its looks like the information  it 
mightve been provided with didnt reflect Ms Os actual position. Lending Stream reasonably 
relied on the information provided with and given the amount of the repayments involved and 
Ms Os loan history, I dont think it was unreasonable  for Lending  Stream to lend  especially 
as there  wasnt anything obvious,  in the information  it had, to suggest Ms O wouldnt be able 
to sustainably repay these  loans.
So overall I think the checks Lending Stream carried out were proportionate. As this is the 
case, Im not upholding Ms Os complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for      
Ms O. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that her 
concerns have been listened to.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Ms Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4091520