K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about  poor workmanship and delays whilst U K Insurance Limited  
(trading as Direct Line - DL) was dealing with a claim they made  on their home insurance.
background
Mr and Mrs C had a leak in their home  which caused extensive damage.  They  reported  this 
to DL in December 2017, and it accepted  the claim.
Mr and Mrs C were told the repairs  would take a matter of a few weeks so opted to stay with 
family rather than move  into alternate accommodation. The work took much longer  than 
expected, and Mr and Mrs C complained  about  this and also the poor workmanship DLs 
contractors did.
In June 2018 DL acknowledged that it had got things wrong and paid Mr and Mrs C £500 
compensation.
Mr and Mrs C returned home in July 2018 and problems continued. There were  outstanding 
repairs and eventually Mr and Mrs C paid for some work themselves because DL didnt 
arrange for work to be done in a timely fashion  such as re-plastering and decorating.
There was a fairly long dispute about problems with a bath that DL initially said its 
contractors hadnt  touched. But eventually  it agreed it was responsible for putting this right.
Mr and Mrs C also said their boiler was broken when  it had worked before  and that there 
was a leak from a radiator that had been  removed and replaced by DLs contractor. DL said 
it couldnt say if its contractor or Mr and Mrs Cs plumber had caused the problems  but it 
agreed that this part of the complaint should  be upheld.
There were other issues too  such as DL not producing a correct  list of outstanding work for 
some time and not keeping Mr and Mrs C updated  on what was happening. DL agreed that 
was its fault.
Mr and Mrs C said that mouldy items  had been  left in their garden, but DL said this was 
normal practise to minimise  further  damage  to the interior of the house.
Overall DL agreed with the majority of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint points and offered 
additional £300 compensation.
Mr and Mrs C complained  to us, saying the compensation didnt reflect the issues theyd had 
 and that they were out of pocket as theyd had to pay for work themselves.
Our investigator thought DL should  increase  the compensation to £500 and pay Mr and Mrs 
Cs costs if they provided invoices.
DL agreed to pay the invoices, but didnt  think  the extra £200 was justified as it brought the 
overall compensation to £1,000.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ref: DRN48076062Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity,  Im only considering what happened after Mr and Mrs C accepted  the first 
compensation payment in June 2018.  
Over the next three  months Mr and Mrs C tell me they had to continually battle with DL and 
its contractors to get work done  properly.
One example  is that for a considerable amount of time DL refused to take responsibility  for a 
bath that had been removed and damaged  and plumbed back  in without  a working hot 
water tap. It was only because Mr and Mrs C had a photo showing the bath had been 
removed that DL accepted what they said. Thats unacceptable. I say that because its 
reasonable for DL to keep  records of the work done by a contractor  and what  its paid for this 
work. Instead DL left it to Mr and Mrs C to prove the contractor had done the substandard 
work. I think  thats most  likely  what happened  with the boiler  too, and again I think DL should 
have records of what its contractors have done.
Ive also taken into account that DL had got as far as cleaning  things  in the kitchen   a 
relatively minor last task  when it was realised that there was considerably more work to do 
as the house remained  damp. I understand DL might have been let down by one of its 
contractors, but as they work on DLs behalf, it must take responsibility for the work. 
I also think its unacceptable  for Mr and Mrs C to be left so frustrated by the slow progress of 
work that they paid out of their own pockets to have work done, especially as this was after 
theyd been told their home was habitable. It should by this point have been completely 
repaired  or at least only have very minor things outstanding.
Although DL did agree most  of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint points, it did disagree with one  it 
said it was normal practise to leave mouldy objects outside a customers  house. Whilst I 
agree removing the items is very important from a health perspective,  I dont think  leaving 
them in a front garden with no explanation  or timeline for their removal  is acceptable. Nor 
did DL respond  promptly  when Mr and Mrs C asked about this  from what Ive seen the 
items werent removed  for weeks. 
When Mr and Mrs C made their complaint,  there was still outstanding work to repair  a bath, 
a door and a worktop. I trust thats now complete.
Our investigator suggested DL pay Mr and Mrs Cs out of pocket expenses  (for the 
plastering and plumber) and I understand that was done once invoices were provided. So it 
only leaves the compensation for me to consider. Taking into account what happened and 
that it happened after DL had already acknowledged it hadnt  handled this claim properly 
overall, I think £500 is the right amount. It wont fully compensate Mr and Mrs C for the 
unexpected extra time they had to spend out of their home,  and the unnecessary  additional 
issues DL caused,  but it will, I hope, help.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I order U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr and 
Mrs C £500 compensation, and meet  their out of pocket  expenses for the plastering 
decorating and plumbing they paid for, if that hasnt already been paid.
Ref: DRN48076063Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 September 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4807606