K821x#15complaint
Miss O complains  that PDL Finance  Limited,  trading as Mr Lender, lend to her in an
irresponsible manner.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 
18 December 2019, an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I 
wont repeat  that information here.  
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I thought that Mr Lender shouldnt have given 
Miss O loan six and what it should  do to put matters right.  
responses to my provisional  decision
Miss O and Mr Lender said that they had nothing further to add.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Miss O nor Mr Lender  has provided me with anything further on the 
complaint, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. So, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think  that Mr Lender should have given 
Miss O loan six.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Miss Os complaint in 
part. In addition  to its previous offer to pay Miss O £15, PDL Finance Limited, trading as
Mr Lender, should:  
refund  all interest and charges Miss O paid on loan six;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded  interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
any information recorded about  loans  six is adverse. So all entries about loan six 
should be removed  from Miss Os credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest.
Mr Lender must give Miss O a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off, if she asks 
for one.
Ref: DRN41632342Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41632343extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Miss O complains that PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, lend to her in an irresponsible 
manner.
background
Miss O took out six loans  with Mr Lender between May 2013 and January  2104.  Loans one to three 
were for £100 and loans four to six were  for £250. The loans were repayable in one, monthly 
repayment. Miss O repaid all the loans. A summary of Miss Os lending with Mr Lender is as follows:
Miss O says that she couldnt afford to repay these  loans  and that her credit file would  have
shown defaults. She says that she was borrowing  again  after repaying previous loans just to get 
through the months. Miss O wants a refund of interest and charges.
In response to Miss Os complaint, Mr Lender offered to refund £15, which  it said was the interest 
on loan two. Miss O didnt accept that.
One of our adjudicators assessed Miss Os complaint. He said that Mr Lender shouldnt have given 
Miss O loans five and six. The adjudicator set out what he thought  Mr Lender should do to put 
matters right.
Mr Lender didnt agree with the adjudicator.  It said that the complaint hadnt been 
investigated properly.  Mr Lender said that its checks before lending  to Miss O were  
proportionate and that Miss O repaid loan five early.
Mr Lender said that its earlier offer of £15 was made in error but I understand that its willing  to 
honour that.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about  short-
term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  - on our 
website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss O 
could repay  the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages  of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should  fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include:
    the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN41632344    the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
    the greater the number and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans  (reflecting  the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required  to establish whether Miss O could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. Of course, the 
loan payments being  affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer  could sustainably 
make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically  follow this is the case. This is because  the Office 
of Fair Trading  Irresponsible Lending guidance  and later the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  (CONC) 
defines sustainable as being  without undue difficulties  and in particular, the customer should be able 
to make repayments  on time,  while  meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without  
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise,  or it ought  fairly 
and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Os complaint.
I dont think that Mr Lender was wrong  to give Miss O loans  one, two and three.  Given the repayment 
amounts, what was apparent about Miss Os circumstances at the time and her history with the 
lender at that point, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask Miss O for the 
amount of information needed to show the lending  was unsustainable. There  wasnt anything in the 
information Miss O provided or the information  Mr Lender shouldve  been aware  of, which meant it 
wouldve been  proportionate for it to start verifying  what Miss O said.
Miss O has referred  to her credit  report.  Information  a prospective lender can see from its searches 
isnt in the same detail  as Miss O can see from her own credit report. Ive seen the results of Mr 
Lenders credit checks and they dont show that it should have  done more  than it did at that stage.
For loans four and five, I think Mr Lender shouldve  taken steps to build  a more  detailed picture  of 
Miss Os financial situation. But I havent seen anything in the information provided which  suggests 
the lender wouldve known that Miss O wouldnt have been able to sustainably make the repayments 
for these loans.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Miss Os lending history  with Miss O, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point at which  Mr Lender should reasonably  have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised  that it shouldnt have 
provided any further  loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Os case, I think that this point was reached by loan six. 
I say this because by then Miss O had been borrowing from Mr Lender for over eight months with 
very little break. Before loan six, Mr Lender ought to have realised it was more  likely than not Miss 
O was having to borrow further to cover  the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her 
finances.
Miss O wasnt  making any real inroads to the amount she owed Mr Lender.  As Ive said,  loan six was 
taken out over eight months after Miss Os first. And it was for a larger  amount.
Miss O had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to Mr Lender over an 
extended period.
Ref: DRN41632345I think that by loan six, the pattern of lending, in itself,  showed that Miss O couldnt afford  to
repay further borrowing.  Miss O lost out because Mr Lender gave her loan six. I say that because  
that loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Os indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. And the sheer 
number of loans was likely  to have had negative implications on Miss Os ability  to access 
mainstream credit  and so kept her in the market for these high-cost  loans.
So I intend to uphold Miss Os complaint about loan six. I also intend to direct Mr Lender to put 
things right.
putting things right  what I intend  to direct Mr Lender to do
In addition  to its previous  offer to pay Miss O £15, PDL Finance Limited, trading as
Mr Lender, should:
refund all interest and charges Miss O paid on loan six;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
any information recorded about loans  six is adverse. So all entries about loan six should 
be removed from Miss Os credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender must  
give Miss O a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off, if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold Miss Os complaint in part. I intend to direct
PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, to put things right as indicated above.
Ref: DRN4163234