K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says Lloyds  Bank plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs T bought the policy to protect  her repayments when she took out a loan. It was at a 
meeting in 2002 in one of the banks branches. The loan included an amount to pay for the 
policy. And it provided Mrs T with cover for accident, sickness  and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs T disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
On Mrs Ts credit  agreement the cost of the PPI was set out separately under the 
heading Optional Loan Protection  Insurance loan. And lower down the form, under 
the heading Optional Loan Protection , the options  to select  or decline PPI were set 
out with equal prominence. Mrs T indicated that she wanted it. So, overall  I think  
Lloyds made Mrs T aware she had a choice about buying  PPI, and she chose to take 
it out. I can understand she might not remember this given how long ago the sale 
was.  
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs T. And it seems to have been suitable for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs T was entitled to three 
months full pay and three months half pay from her employer if she was sick. But 
the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this - for up to the term of the loan for 
accident and sickness claims  and for up to 12 months for unemployment. 
Mrs Ts representative  argues that as the loan was only for 12 months  her sick pay 
was sufficient protection. But I disagree.  If she had been unable  to work beyond the 
time she received  sick pay for, I think the PPI would have been valuable  for her. She 
could have been in a position with no income  for a number of months so having the 
loan repayments  covered  would have been  valuable. She also said she had life 
insurance but that wouldnt help with monthly  repayments in the same way as PPI, so 
its not a suitable alternative. Overall,  I think the PPI wouldve been useful for Mrs T if 
she was sick or lost her job. 
The cash  price of the policy and the monthly  cost were shown on the agreement   
but the interest payable wasnt set out separately. But as the PPI was competitively 
priced and apparently  affordable, I dont  think Mrs T wouldve  made  a different 
decision if shed been given clearer cost information. The missing interest payment 
was under £1 per month, so it seems  unlikely knowing  this would have made a 
difference to Mrs Ts decision. And given how long the policy couldve paid out for, if 
Ref: DRN44427962Mrs T made a successful claim she couldve got back quite a bit more than she paid 
for it.
Mrs T wouldve only got back  a limited refund of the PPI premium  if she cancelled  the 
policy early.  But I havent seen  anything from the time the policy  was sold to suggest  
she thought shed repay  the loan early.  So I dont think  this meant the policy wasnt  
right for her.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But Mrs T 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things (such  as type of 
employment contract or pre-existing medical conditions). So I think its unlikely she 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided   overall, 
I think she would still have taken  out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mrs T has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4442796