K820x#14Complaint
Mr D, who is represented by a claims management  company  (CMC),  complains that 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  rejected his claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit 
Act in respect of a mis-sold timeshare.
Background
In March 2008 Mr D and Mrs D acquired  timeshare membership from a company  I will call L 
at a cost of £4,450. This was an upgrade  in their existing VIP membership. The acquisition  
was funded by a buy now pay later  credit card in Mr Ds name. I gather it was taken out to 
meet this expense. Due to the passage of time there  is little in the way of documentary 
evidence as to what occurred. However,  Clydesdale  says its records  show the debt was paid 
off in September 2008.
In March 2018 Mr D made a claim under  section 75 which was rejected by Clydesdale as 
being out of time as set down by the Limitation Act. The CMC brought  a complaint to this 
service. It said that Mr and Mrs D were induced to make the purchase having been  misled 
about a number of key points. It said they were  told that their existing membership was of 
limited value and the new scheme would give them greater availability. They didnt  know the 
contract was in perpetuity and were  led to believe it was an investment.
It argued that the contract  didnt meet  Mr and Mrs Ds needs and were not made aware of 
the increase in maintenance fees. The CMC said that Mr and Mrs D were not aware  of the 
misrepresentation until November 2016.
The CMC set out a range  of arguments  as to why their clients  claim  should  succeed. It said 
that the various failures and breaches by L meant  the Section 75 claim should succeed. It 
argued there  was an unfair relationship between Clydesdale and Mr D as he was unaware of 
the commission it received from L. 
Our investigator did not consider the complaint should be upheld.  He said that our rules 
which apply time limits  to what  complaints can be upheld as set in DISP 2.8.2(2) did not 
prevent us considering Mr Ds complaint.  He explained that the event complained of was the 
banks decision on 29 March 2018  to decline the claim Mr D made regarding the timeshare, 
rather than the breach  of contract  itself.  Mr D had brought his complaint to this service with 
the six year time limit specified  in the rules.
However, he didnt  consider the claim fell with the time limits  set out by the Limitation Act. He 
said he thought  the point  of loss was the point at which the transaction was entered into, 
which was in March  2008. Thats the moment when Mr and Mrs D accepted  any potential 
benefit under the contract, and it was also the moment they accepted  the cost under  the 
contract.
If that is the case, the time limit applicable  to misrepresentation set out in the Limitation Act 
is six years  from the date of loss. So, Mr D needed  to raise the claim no later than March 
2014 rather than some 10 years after the loss occurred.
The CMC didnt agree and said that we should consider if Clydesdale  had been guilty  of 
irresponsible lending.  It also said that the four hour high pressure sales  pitch  gave rise to an 
unfair relationship and L exerted undue influence. It also reiterated the original grounds for 
Ref: DRN47043112complaint. It believed that L was unable to provide  the timeshare  availability  due to 
overselling. 
It said that the sale was fraudulent and this allowed  Mr D to rely on s.32 of the Limitation Act:
"(1).... where in the case of any action for which a period of limitation  is prescribed by this
Act...
(b) Any fact relevant to the plaintiffs right of action has been deliberately concealed from him
by the defendant...the period of limitation shall not begin to run until the plaintiff has
discovered the... concealment... or could with reasonable diligence have discovered it."
It said it wanted to know  how much commission had been paid to Clydesdale  and it made  a 
subject access request. 
It also argued that the six year limit set down in DISP 2.8.2(2) didnt apply despite our 
investigator having already stated this. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have every sympathy with Mr D I do not consider  I can uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, Im 
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice.
Under s.75, Clydesdale is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of the goods or 
services for any breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier.  This means,  He had 
a like claim against Clydesdale just as he would have against  the supplier. So, if his claim 
against the supplier  of the timeshare has likely expired under the Limitation  Act, then that is 
something Clydesdale could take into account when it considers his claims against  it.
The Limitation Act sets out the time limits  which apply to different  types of claims. Mr D said 
the timeshare  he bought  was misrepresented  to him and his wife.
Under the Limitation Act, Mr D would  have six years from the date upon which he suffered a 
loss as a result of the misrepresentation to bring  his claim. 
As Clydesdale  steps into the shoes of the supplier for the purposes  of the s.75 claim,  to work 
out when the clock  starts running under the Limitation Act, we need to work out when it 
would start if the claim had been brought directly  against the supplier.
Misrepresentation claims can be made once the person  bringing  the claim has experienced 
damage and or loss as a result  of the misrepresentation.  In this case,  given the nature of 
the complaint,  I think damage occurred when Mr D suffered a financial loss as a result of 
purchasing the timeshare.  Ill explain  why below.
 
He says that as a result of the suppliers misrepresentation,  he paid to enter an agreement  
which has caused him to suffer a loss. He says that but for the misrepresentation, he 
Ref: DRN47043113wouldnt have entered into the contract  at all and wouldnt have paid any money to the 
supplier.
So, I think the point  of loss was the point at which the transaction was entered into, which 
was in March  2008. Thats the moment when he accepted any potential benefit under the 
contract, and it was also the moment he accepted the cost under the contract.
The time limit applicable to misrepresentation is six years from the date of loss. So, Mr D 
needed to raise his claim no later than March 2016. As I understand it, he raised his claim in 
March 2018, which is 10 years after the loss occurred.
He may say that he wasnt  aware  he could raise  concerns about the misrepresentation until 
much later. But the time limits set out for misrepresentation claims such  as this, start to run 
from the date of loss, which may fall earlier than the date a consumer became aware that 
something might have gone  wrong.   
Ive also considered section 140A (s.140A) of the Consumer Credit Act when looking into 
this complaint. Under s.140A,  the courts may make an order  under section 140B in 
connection with a credit agreement  if it determines  that the relationship between the creditor 
and debtor arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor due to a number of factors. 
Only a court has the power  to decide whether a relationship between the credit and debtor is 
unfair, but it is relevant law we need  to take into consideration. 
The Limitation Act still applies for these types  of claims. For a s.140A claim, one would have 
six years  from the date the related  finance agreement ended. From the information I have, 
the finance agreement ended in September 2008 so a s.140A claim needed  to be raised no 
later than September 2014. As I understand it, Mr D raised his claim in March 2018,  which  is 
nearly ten years after his finance agreement ended.
Ultimately, it is for the courts to decide  whether or not any claim Mr D may have against the 
supplier or the creditor has expired under the Limitation Act.
However, given the above, it seems to me that this misrepresentation claim against the 
supplier and the like claim  against Clydesdale more  than likely exceeded the relevant time 
limits set out in the Limitation Act. So, it would  not be unreasonable for Clydesdale  to take 
this into account  when considering your s.75 claim against it. 
On the issue of s.32 of the Limitation Act this applies to fraudulent  misrepresentation but it 
does extend to concealment. In some cases,  it can extend the time the consumer has to 
raise a claim. However,  where  a consumer has raised a number of issues  with the product 
(over and above commission) in their claim/complaint and those  issues could have been 
discoverable earlier,  we take the view they had discovered or ought to have been able to 
discover that something had gone wrong  and if that was in excess  of 6 years before  claim, 
we would not find that s.32 extends  time.  
I have reviewed the documents obtained  from Clydesdale under the subject access request 
and I have seen  no evidence to support any concealment and I do not consider the simple 
assertion that L acted fraudulently sufficient to allow me say Clydesdale  should  take s.32 
into account in reaching its decision.
So, given that your claim now is more than likely  time barred  under  the Limitation Act, I think 
Clydesdales decision not to look into Mr Ds claim was fair. 
Ref: DRN47043114My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject  my decision before 
15 July 2021.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4704311