K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold him payment 
protection insurance (PPI) alongside  a credit  card in 2000.
background
Mr K applied for a credit card and the PPI in 2000. This policy would have paid out 10% of 
the outstanding card balance for up to 12 months if Mr K was off work  through  accident, 
sickness or if he lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. Mr K disagreed with this view and asked that an 
ombudsman look again at his complaint. So the matter has been passed  to me to make a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Mr K was given a fair choice about buying  the 
policy. Mr K cant  remember  how the policy was sold - thats understandable  as so much  
time has passed since the time of the sale; but he says that at no point was it made clear  
that the policy was optional.  NatWest  has been able to provide a copy of the application form 
Mr K completed when he applied for the credit  card and the PPI.
The form isnt so clear  but I can see all Mr Ks details such as his employment  and banking 
details have been filled in and Mr K has signed  his name in the section to say he wanted to 
take out the PPI. He could  have  left it blank if he didnt want  it and Mr K has signed and 
dated the form. I also think the PPI appeared on his monthly credit card statements. So he 
could have questioned the PPI with NatWest if he didnt know he had it or if he was unsure 
about it - I cant see that he has done this. Overall, I think he would have understood he was 
taking out the PPI, what it covered him for and that he could have refused it if he didnt want 
it.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr K. Theres nothing  to make me think a tailored 
recommendation was made to him. That meant  NatWest didnt have to make  sure it was 
suitable for him. But it still did need to give enough  clear information to make sure he could 
decide for himself  whether or not to take out the PPI.
Its possible that NatWest  didnt give all the information it should have done. But thats  not 
enough to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide whether or not Mr K would have 
changed his mind about buying the policy if hed been given better or clearer information. I 
cant say he would have  done. 
I say that because I can see that more information would have only shown Mr K that he was 
eligible for the PPI and as he was working and in good health at the time I dont think  he 
Ref: DRN42178682would have been affected by any of the main  limitations and conditions  that might  have 
made it more difficult to make a claim.
Mr K says he had no need  for the policy as he was entitled to significant sick pay  six 
months full pay followed  by six months  half pay and he says if hed been  off work for a 
prolonged period, he would have had no difficulty in maintaining his repayments. But the PPI 
wasnt recommended  to him so NatWest didnt need  to look at his circumstances. But this 
policy would have paid out for potentially longer than his full sick pay lasted and would  have 
paid out in addition to it. So I still think it could  have been useful. And Mr K has also told us 
about some  savings he had but the policy would have allowed him to use his savings for any 
other important living  expenses if hed needed to.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable for Mr K. So overall  I dont think better or clearer 
information would have put Mr K off buying the cover.
Which means NatWest doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But NatWest  has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because : 
NatWest got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr K about that. Because  NatWest  didnt  tell Mr K, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr K has said. But these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Mr K any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4217868