K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) wont  pay her 
the full market value of her car under  her motor insurance policy after she was it was 
damaged in an accident and Advantage decided it should be written off.
background
In November 2018 Ms H was driving  her car when it was hit at a junction  by a third party  
vehicle. Ms H said she wasnt  at fault,  and has provided a dash-cam recording to Advantage 
in support of this.
Ms H notified Advantage as her insurer.  It arranged to collect  Ms Hs car. After an 
independent inspection Advantage decided that the damage was such  that the car should be 
written off, and Ms H should be paid the market  value of the car. Having consulted  three  
trade guides, it offered her a market valuation of £11,992, being the average of the two 
highest figures suggested by the trade guides.
Ms H didnt accept this valuation. She said her car had a number of extras  fitted, was in 
immaculate condition, and had a low mileage. Based on advertisements she had seen for 
similar cars, she thought its value was in the region of £15,000. She arranged  for her car to 
be inspected by an independent professional valuer at a cost to her of £192.
The valuer considered the evidence of the trade  guides. He also researched the market  for 
cars of similar age, model, specification, mileage, and equipment to Ms Hs car. He found 
similar cars for sale at main dealers ranging  in price from £12,000 to £14,000.  Given  that 
some negotiations were  likely to take place, he thought a replacement  value for a car similar  
to Ms Hs would be in the region of £13,000.
Advantage didnt  agree  with this valuation, and maintained that its valuation  of £11,992 was 
a fair market  value.
In April 2019, our investigator  recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said 
we were accustomed to use two of the same guides as Advantage had quoted, and one 
different one. We found such  guides more reliable  than simply using advertisements, which  
were often speculative  and represented  asking,  rather  than actual,  selling prices.
Ms Hs car was fitted  with a number of optional extras and accessories. The investigator said 
we wouldnt take into account any accessories that could be taken out of the car and used 
again. In obtaining valuations for Ms Hs car, two of the guides  allowed him to include the 
remaining optional extras, but in neither case had this increased the valuation.
Taking an average of the three figures the investigator obtained gave a valuation of 
£12,092.33, which was higher than Advantage had offered. He said the valuation Ms H had 
obtained was by an independent  expert.  As such he thought it was particularly persuasive, 
and it was right that he should take it into account.
Taking an average of the three trade  guide valuations  he had obtained plus the independent 
experts valuation  produced a figure  of £12,319.25. As compensation towards the £192  cost 
of the valuation Ms H had obtained he thought it was fair to round this figure up to £12,500.
Ref: DRN46515672Ms H said she would accept the investigators  recommendation.  Advantage responded to 
say, in summary, that while  it would accept a valuation based on the average of the three  
trade guides the investigator had used,  it didnt agree he should have taken account of the 
experts valuation, or the fee for this that Ms H had incurred.  So it asked for this complaint to 
be referred to an ombudsman for a decision.
While this complaint was been  considered  by us, Ms Hs car has been in storage. Advantage 
had agreed to waive storage charges until 17 April 2019, but not beyond that date. The 
investigator asked if Advantage would consider continuing to waive storage charges until this 
complaint was resolved. Advantage wasnt willing to do so unless directed to by us.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find Ive come  to the 
same conclusions as the investigator,  and for broadly  the same  reasons.
I agree  with the investigator that it wouldnt be reasonable  to ignore the report of the 
independent expert  that Ms H instructed. The investigator gave the experts valuation  equal  
weight to the three trade guides  we normally use. I think this was fair in the circumstances of 
this case. Taking  the average of the four valuations produced  a figure of £12,319.25.
This was greater than the offer Advantage made.  So think its reasonable to round this up to 
£12,500 to compensate Ms H for the fact that she had to obtain  and pay for the experts 
valuation.
While the dispute  continued, Ms Hs car remained in storage, and she wouldnt agree to it 
being disposed  of. Advantage agreed to waive storage charges until 17 April 2019,  but not 
beyond. The investigator issued his view on 19 April 2019, which Ms H was willing to accept. 
However Advantage didnt agree and asked that the complaint be reviewed.
We would  normally expect the car to be retained  until a complaint to us was concluded, 
particularly when it was about the value of the car. I have come  to the same view of this as 
the investigator did in April 2019.  So I think its fair that Advantage waive all storage charges, 
after as well as before 17 April 2019,  subject to Ms H now agreeing that the car can be 
disposed of.
Advantage hasnt  disputed  that the accident to Ms Hs car wasnt her fault. It has confirmed 
that once the issue  of the cars value is resolved it will raise a recovery claim against the 
other drivers  insurer  and will fully support Ms H in relation to this claim. This is as we would 
expect.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to:
1.settle Ms Hs claim on the basis of the market value of her car immediately  before  the 
accident being £12,500, and otherwise  on the terms of her policy and subject to any 
policy excess; and
Ref: DRN465156732.waive all storage charges in respect of her car, whether these arose  before  or after 
17 April 2019, subject  to Ms H now agreeing that the car can be disposed of.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4651567