K821x#15complaint
Mr A complained that Hastings Insurance Services Limited gave him misleading information 
about his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr A said that Hastings gave him conflicting  information about whether he was still insured
to drive his car on a particular date, so he didnt  go to work on that date because he didnt
know if he was insured to do so. This led him to cancel his policy.
He also complained that they wrongly  told him he still owed money after cancellation,
they got his no claims discount (NCD) period  wrong, didnt call him back as they promised
and generally  gave him poor service.
Hastings maintained that Mr A was insured to drive  on that day. But they accepted theyd
made some mistakes  and so they paid him compensation  of £80. He didnt think that was
enough. He wanted them to refund his annual  policy premium and pay him compensation of
£250.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought that
Hastings had acted  fairly  in acknowledging  their mistakes and poor service and in
compensating Mr A £80. Mr A didnt agree and so his complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 22 April, saying that I intended to partly uphold  the 
complaint. Hastings didnt have anything  to add in response to that. Mr A responded and I 
deal with his comments  below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A wanted  us to fine Hastings for giving him wrong advice but, as the adjudicator
explained, its not our role to fine or punish  businesses. What Im looking at is whether they
treated him fairly and reasonably. I have also listed to all the recordings of calls between
Mr A and Hastings which have been  provided.
Mr A said that Hastingss insurance portal  showed that the last insured day of his policy was
27 September 2018. But the renewal pack theyd sent him at the end of August suggested
that the last insured day was 28 September.
Hes shown us screenshots of what he says Hastingss  insurance portal  says about his
policy. The screenshots are undated  but, as they show the details of his latest policy,  which
didnt start till 29 September 2018,  it is fair for me to assume that they are after that date.
The screenshots give a policy reference  ending 1 and state that the last day of his policy
was 27 September.  So that does support what Mr A says.
Mr A telephoned Hastings on 28 September to ask about this conflict  in Hastingss
information. He told them that he was worried about driving that day in case the police
stopped him and he wasnt insured.  
Ref: DRN47092902Hastings were adamant that he was insured that day, the 28th.  They said if the police 
stopped him they would tell the police that he was insured. But he wasnt happy about 
accepting their word as he said theyd made mistakes with his policy before and he didnt 
trust what they said. And he didnt want to risk being stopped by the police or risk criminal 
proceedings against him as he might  get a fine and lose his job. He thought that Hastings 
should have been able to show him something  to prove that he was still insured on the 28th.
During our adjudicators  investigation, the adjudicator found out from Hastings that Mr A had
actually had two policies for the same policy year, one having  replaced the other.  This had
happened because  Mr A, when he had last renewed  his policy, had cancelled  his original
policy (the original policy) whose last insured  day was 27 September. And he had replaced
it with a new policy whose  last insured date was 28 September  (the replacement policy). I
can see that these  two policies had completely different policy  numbers, but that their policy
certificates (which Hastings have shown  us) have the same reference except that the 
original one ended with 1 and the replacement policy with 2.
Mr A thinks  that Hastings just made up the certificate for the replacement policy after he
complained, to cover up their mistake. He said Hastings told him that the original policy  did
not exist, regardless  of what the portal said about it or what  documents  he had. I could see
why he thinks that, as one of their letters does appear to deny there being any policy ending
27 September. Hastings  now say that their confusion might  have  been  because their staff
only looked at one policy number when in fact there  had been two. I suspect that the close
similarity in the reference numbers Hastings used for the original and its replacement policy
may have  affected  that. But Id not seen anything to suggest that they fabricated  the
replacement policys certificate  to support their position. I thought  that their records  do show
that Mr A was insured under his replacement policy until and including 28 September.
I thought that if Mr A had driven  on the 28th and had been stopped by the police Hastings  
could have ultimately shown that he was insured, because  they did have an insurance 
certificate confirming that. But I thought that Hastings did give Mr A conflicting information, 
because the information on the portal  was misleading as it was different from that in their 
letter of renewal. And I thought that they should have been able to reassure him about this, 
either by explaining about the original and replacement policies, or by showing him the 
correct insurance certificate.  But when  Mr A phoned  on the 28th to query it, although they 
assured him that he was still insured, they didnt arrange to show  him anything to prove  that. 
Instead their focus  was on getting  him to renew  his policy and they didnt deal with his issue.  
I could see why Mr A felt doubtful about whether he was insured, and I didnt think  it was 
unreasonable for him to expect Hastings to provide certainty about this by showing him 
some documentation.  But they didnt explain it to him then, or in their responses to his 
complaint. 
But that didnt  mean that I thought that it was Hastingss fault if Mr A didnt go to work on the 
28th. I would have  expected that, if not being able to drive  would mean that Mr A had no 
other way of getting  to work, that he would have phoned Hastings to clarify  the situation  
earlier. My concern was rather  that Hastings did not really  listen  to or investigate and resolve 
his complaint about when his policy ended, and I dont think thats satisfactory. I thought that 
pursuing his complaint has been  a long process,  and it wouldnt have been  necessary if 
theyd explained  the issue to him and given him the proof that they have since  shown us. If 
they had, he probably  wouldnt  have wanted  to cancel his policy or have been put to the 
trouble of obtaining alternative insurance.  I thought  that Hastings actions did cause him 
inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN47092903When he later phoned  Hastings for a letter confirming his NCD period  they at first got that 
wrong, and he had to correct them  and wait about 40 minutes on one phone  call for them to 
resolve that. Hastings accepted that Mr A had spent a significant period of time on the phone 
about that and other matters during his complaint and that this was partly their fault. They 
also accepted  that they had made a mistake at first about the amount he owed after 
cancellation, although they clarified that when  he queried it. I thought that these other  
mistakes compounded the overall inconvenience for him. 
But although  they did make mistakes, Hastings had by then already  insured Mr A for that 
previous year, so he had received the benefit  of the premium he paid. So asking them  to 
refund his annual  premium wouldnt  be a reasonable resolution. However, I didnt think  that 
the total compensation of £80 they paid him was enough to reflect the inconvenience  he 
had. I could see that he has felt frustrated that Hastings expected him to do all the chasing  
and explaining,  when the problem lay with them. I didnt think that they considered his 
original complaint seriously  or investigated  it as they should have, and the true position only 
came out during our adjudicators investigation. Their mistakes  put Mr A to the 
inconvenience of cancelling and taking out alternative insurance and even after he 
cancelled, Hastings made more mistakes  which  took him time to correct. For these reasons I 
thought that they should pay him total compensation of £250, that being £170  on top of the 
£80 that they had already  paid him. 
Mr A responded to my provisional decision.  He repeated  that he felt that Hastings should be 
fined or be made to refund  his whole policy premium. Ive already explained above why I 
dont agree with that. 
Mr A has also now claimed for £120  which he said was his days loss of earnings on the 
28th. I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Hastings to cover Mr As claimed loss of 
earnings for that day. Mr A doubted  whether his insurance would expire on the 27th or the 
28th, but he only called  Hastings about it on the 28th. Whilst I do think that Hastings should 
have been able to prove  to him, perhaps by sending him documentation, that he remained 
insured, I dont think it was reasonable to expect them to do that on the very same day. And 
so, although I do see that Mr A has found  the situation frustrating, I dont think it would be 
fair to require them to pay him any loss of earnings.  
my final decision 
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision, its my final decision that I 
uphold this complaint and require Hastings Insurance Services Limited  to: 
Pay Mr A compensation  of £170. This is in addition to the £80 they have already paid 
him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN47092904Hastings must pay the compensation  within 28 days of the date on which we tell them  Mr A 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Hastings consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from interest, they should tell Mr A how much they have taken off, and give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4709290