K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policies.
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs H bought  the policies in 1998, 2000  and 2003 at the same time as taking loans. 
Nationwide says they also took a loan in 1997  but it no longer has paperwork for that loan 
and no information  has been produced by either party to show  PPI was taken with that loan.
Due to the time that has passed,  Nationwide  cant say how Mr and Mrs H applied  for the 
loans and PPI policies. Mr and Mrs H recall taking out loans at branch meetings  so, from 
what they recall, at least two of the policies and loans  were arranged at a branch.
The policies one-off  upfront premiums  (single  premiums) of approximately £307  (1998), 
£917 (2000) and £528 (2003) were paid in advance  by being added to the respective loan in 
each case where they attracted interest  over the loan term. The first loan was repayable 
over 24 months, the others over 48 months.  In each  case the policy term matched the loan 
term. The monthly loan repayments were  around £165 (1998), £181 (2000) and £112 (2003) 
with the PPI costing  around an additional £15 (1998), £24 (2000)  and £13 (2003) a month 
making the total monthly repayments around  £180  (1998),  £205 (2000) and £125 (2003).
Mr H at the time of the second  sale worked  as an engineer and had been there at least five 
years. From  what Mr and Mrs H have told us, Mr H was entitled to no more than statutory 
pay for sickness or redundancy. From  what I have, by the time of the last loan Mr H worked 
for a new employer hed joined some  time in 2002.
From what  Mr and Mrs H have told us, Mrs H was also employed, working in catering, and 
was entitled to no more than statutory  pay for sickness or redundancy. Mr and Mrs H had life 
cover but had no savings  or any other  means  of making payments in the event of disability 
or unemployment, aside  from their statutory work  benefits. Mr and Mrs H have told us of an 
injury Mr H suffered more than 20 years  before the first sale. Ive nothing to make  me think 
he didnt recover from this completely and many  years before the first sale. Mr and Mrs H 
didnt when they first came to us tell us of having had any other health issues.
The PPI provided  cover on Mr H for accident, sickness, unemployment  and life  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  For a successful claim, it offered to pay Mr and Mrs Hs total 
monthly repayments for up to the remaining loan term for disability and up to 12 months for 
unemployment. The life cover would, subject to its terms, repay each loan upon death.
Nationwide has sent us evidence to show the last open loan was closed in 2004.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Hs representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP APP 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have 
taken the PPI and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Hs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
Ref: DRN48970182The PPI excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some  of the most 
common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the PPI was of inherently  poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio.  The 
common law duty of utmost  good  faith means Nationwide  should  have told Mr and Mrs H 
about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;  and
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs H and 
the impact they would have had on their chances  of making a claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint
The sales  took place  between 1998  and 2003,  before the sale of general insurance  products 
like these became regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs (and FCAs)  overarching  
Principles for Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable  
to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter guidance (PERG). The first two sales took 
place also before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) published its code of 
practice in June 2000, so the GISC code isnt applicable to those sales.
The last of the credit agreements  to close concluded  in 2004. That means  the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time of the sales, which  Im 
satisfied are applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN48970183The General  Insurance  Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  
the GISC  Code. 
The last sale was made during a period of industry self-regulation  by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI.
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at the time of the sales. The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the relevant times. So Im satisfied  I should  take the ABI 
code and these  other  publications (including,  for the last sale, the GISC code) into account  
when deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Hs case.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the duty of utmost  good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Building Societies Ombudsman  
in this case  might  have  been expected to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint for 
the first two sales. I note that under the Building Societies Ombudsmans terms of reference, 
the Ombudsman was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sales took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
Ref: DRN48970184-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the PPI was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the PPI, including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main policy  provisions  and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Hs 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs H 
and Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs H know they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr and Mrs H have said they had no 
interest in PPI and they have said it was just included  as part of their loan packages. Ive 
thought about this carefully.
Nationwide has provided a copy of the printed credit agreement for each loan, which  in each 
case included PPI. I havent anything to show exactly what  interactions took place before the 
agreements were printed,  but I expect the main loan details on the agreements reflected the 
choices Mr and Mrs H made about how much to borrow, over what period and so on. For 
loans taken at a branch, these would be choices made  during  discussions in the branch.
On balance I think its likely those interactions  also involved Mr and Mrs H being  given  a 
choice about the PPI, with the printed agreements reflecting the choices theyd  made. I say 
this bearing in mind  each  agreement refers to the PPI as Optional Credit Insurance and 
sets out PPI costs  separately from the main  loan costs  so I think  it likely Nationwide 
presented the PPI as, and Mr and Mrs H signed  the agreements aware they were taking, an 
optional insurance  with a separate cost.  Taking everything into account, I think its more  
likely Mr and Mrs H knew the PPI was optional  and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  give advice and Mr and Mrs H when they came to us didnt say 
advice was given  during  these sales. Taking  this into account, Im persuaded Nationwide  
didnt provide advice. This means Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for 
Mr and Mrs H. Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the PPI, including  drawing to 
their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main policy 
provisions and significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs H were given a broad description of what 
the PPI was intended to cover (that is, it would protect Mr and Mrs Hs payments if Mr H 
Ref: DRN48970185were unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment). Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr and Mrs H wouldve taken the PPI without any 
sense of what it was  and also the credit agreements said Mr H was insured for disability, 
unemployment and life.
I also think Mr and Mrs H knew  what the single premium being added  to each loan was in 
1998, 2000 and 2003 (approximately £307, £917  and £528), what  interest was added to the 
respective premiums (around  £46, £223 and £86),  what in each case  the total PPI cost was 
(roughly £353,  £1140  and £614) and the monthly PPI cost (around £15, £24 and £13).  I say 
this because this information was, in my view, sufficiently clear  on the loan agreements 
Mr and Mrs H signed.
But the available evidence from the time of each sale doesnt tell us whether Nationwide 
gave sufficient information about  the actual monthly  benefit or about the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs H agreed to take the PPI. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take the PPI, including drawing 
to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main policy 
provisions and significant limitations and exclusions.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Hs. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Hs representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs H about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs H has suggested. And, taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs H? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs H suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Nationwide didnt do all it should have done when it sold this PPI to Mr and Mrs H. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Ref: DRN48970186Mr and Mrs H suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not they would have still taken the PPI, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs H say they wouldnt  have  taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As these  were non-advised sales, Mr and Mrs H had to weigh up in their own minds the cost 
of each policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt 
insure against the risk of being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs H chose to take this PPI. So I consider  its reasonable to 
conclude they had some  interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But they 
made their decisions based  on incomplete information. So what  Mr and Mrs H thought  they 
were getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this differed  is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs H have suffered any loss or detriment.
As Ive already  said, the information Mr and Mrs H were given about the cost was clear.  But 
the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit and the limitations and 
exclusions, wasnt as clear as it should have been.
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs H would get if they made  
a successful claim. But I think its unlikely their expectations  about what  the PPI would pay 
(an amount  sufficient to meet  their loan payments) were significantly different to what the 
PPI actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs H thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The PPI limited, and in some situations excluded,  unemployment  cover  if Mr H wasnt  a 
permanent employee;
To be eligible  for disability, Mr H had to be not only unable  to do his own job but also 
unable to do any job he might  be reasonably  expected to do bearing in mind  his 
knowledge and training - and, for the second  and third policies, unable to do any work;
The PPI taken in 1998 excluded claims for disability or unemployment related to any 
chronic or continuing disease Mr H knew about  at the policy start; or related to health 
issues for which Mr H had received  treatment  or advice in the 12 months before the start 
and which recurred in the first 12 months  of the policy;
The PPI taken in 2000 and 2003  excluded claims for disability or unemployment related 
to health issues  Mr H knew  or should reasonably  have known of at the policy  start; or 
related to health issues for which he received advice or was referred for investigation in 
the 12 months before the start and which recurred in the first 12 months of the policy.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs H pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the PPI 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs H from taking the PPI. 
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of the sales, shows  the 
PPI wasnt fundamentally  wrong for them.  It provided  cover  that, despite the limitations  and 
exclusions, couldve proven valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. 
Ref: DRN48970187Mr H was eligible for its benefits in 1998 and 2000,  and most likely  also in 2003  (Ive nothing 
showing he hadnt been in continuous  employment  for at least  six months  at that time). I also 
havent seen any evidence to suggest  Mr H wouldve  been  caught by any of the significant 
exclusions  he didnt  have any health  issues and was in permanent employment. So, I think 
Mr and Mrs H still had some good  reasons to take the PPI.
The PPI didnt exclude back or mental  health  conditions or place any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs H would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the PPI without first providing some evidence  to 
support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs H had known they could only claim for disability if Mr H were not only unable  to 
do his own job but also unable to do any job he might be reasonably  expected to do bearing 
in mind his knowledge and training (and, for the second and third policies, unable to do any 
work), this might have played into their thinking about what to do. And I accept  it may have  
given them pause for thought  but given their circumstances, including  Mr Hs entitlement  to 
no more than statutory  sickness and redundancy benefits, on balance I think Mr and Mrs H 
wouldve likely still been interested in taking  the cover.
From what  Ive seen of the PPI terms and what we know of them,  the PPI did provide a 
pro-rata refund if a loan were repaid early  for example,  terms from 2002  say that in that 
situation you will be entitled to a refund of premium,  calculated on a pro-rata basis. So the 
PPI provided flexibility  if Mr and Mrs H decided to repay the lending  early.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs H would still have  taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its likely 
they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  manage the 
consequences were  Mr H made redundant, or unable  to work through accident or sickness. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs H wouldve taken the PPI 
in any event, notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.
Considering the purpose of the guidance,  I dont think it was ever intended  to be at odds  with 
the approach  I have  taken.
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs H would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
Ref: DRN48970188found themselves  in as result of the sale was the same position  they would have been  in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs H believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including Mr and Mrs Hs own comments  that they 
wouldnt have taken  the PPI. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  at DISP  App 3 (which I dont 
consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider  it would in this case  represent fair 
compensation to put Mr and Mrs H in the position  they wouldve been  in if they hadnt bought 
the PPI. Thats because,  while I accept  its possible they wouldnt  have taken it, Im satisfied 
that, of the two possibilities,  its more likely  than not they wouldve still taken the PPI had 
they been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the policies  they were  
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude Nationwide  should pay Mr and Mrs H compensation, as that would put them in a 
better position than they wouldve been in had everything happened  as it should have done.
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Hs representative says a court  might  take 
were it to find Nationwide in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade 
me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive already  set out, I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to put 
Mr and Mrs H in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should  have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 December  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4897018