K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC (when  it was trading as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out PPI alongside their joint mortgage which  started in October 2002. 
This protected their mortgage repayments  in the event that Mr D couldnt work as a result of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion.
Mr and Mrs D mainly said they were unhappy because they had been charged for a product 
that they never asked for and didnt need.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Neither Lloyds nor Mr and Mrs D could provide any signed paperwork from when the PPI 
was sold. But this isnt surprising given how long ago this sale happened. Mr and Mrs D told 
us they made their mortgage application during  a meeting. 
I cant know exactly what, if anything, was said about PPI when Mr and Mrs D arranged  their 
mortgage and took out this policy. After so long, it wouldnt be reasonable to expect them  to 
recall exactly what  was said at the time. This means  that what  Mr and Mrs D say now isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  this complaint. I must look at all the available  
information and decide what I think is most likely.
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage was a major  financial commitment, repayable over a substantial  
number of years. Their  home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept 
up to date. PPI provided dependable protection. So, I can see why they mightve felt this 
policy was useful to have. 
On balance, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs D wanted to have the benefits that PPI 
offered them,  and that Lloyds added the policy to their mortgage  account when 
Mr and Mrs D decided to buy it.
Lloyds wasnt sure how it sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs D. So, in fairness to them, it looked at 
their mis-sale complaint on the basis that its advisor had recommended  PPI during the 
meeting Mr and Mrs D recalled having  at the bank. Given the lack of paperwork showing 
how Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, I think this is the fairest way to assess this 
complaint as it imposes extra  obligations  on the lender. If a business makes  a 
recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy  information  in a clear  
way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable .   
Ref: DRN46610782Lloyds told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from the exact date when 
Mr and Mrs D took out their mortgage. But Ive checked the terms in policy documents  that 
were in use before and after Mr and Mrs D signed up for their policy. In all main  respects  the 
policies had similar terms and conditions. So I think its reasonable to rely on this information  
and I think its likely  that the policy Mr and Mrs D took out wouldve had substantially  the 
same terms  and conditions.
Even taking  into account Mr Ds employment  circumstances,  it still looks  to me as if PPI 
wouldve been a suitable recommendation based on what Mr and Mrs D have said about 
their situation at the time.  
The cover was just in Mr Ds name  and I havent  seen anything  to suggest this wouldnt have 
been appropriate. He was eligible for the PPI policy. 
The policy paid out a monthly benefit that covered Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage repayments  for 
up to 12 months per claim. Mr D told us he wasnt entitled to any sick pay from his employer 
if he wasnt able to work. So I think this wouldve been a useful  benefit  at whats likely to 
have been a difficult time for Mr and Mrs D if he was off work ill or he had a disability that 
prevented him from working.
And the policy wouldve also paid out if Mr D lost his job unexpectedly and he became 
unemployed.   
Its unclear if this mortgage  was taken out when Mr and Mrs D were both working. But in any 
event, I dont know how easy  it wouldve been  for Mrs D to keep up the mortgage monthly 
repayments for very long on her own if only she was working  or if she wasnt working  at all. 
I think its likely that if Mr D couldnt  work this wouldve had a significant impact  on their joint 
household finances. 
So, overall, I find that the PPI Lloyds sold Mr and Mrs D with their mortgage was suitable.  
Its possible some information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  So I've thought about  whether  this would make any overall difference  to the 
outcome of their complaint. 
Mr D was self employed and Ive taken his employment situation into account. But having  
checked the policy terms that wouldve  applied,  I dont  find that it wouldve been any harder 
for him to make an unemployment  claim than it wouldve been  for someone who was 
employed. And it doesnt look as if Mr D was affected by any of the other main conditions  
that mightve limited  the policys benefits  to him. So, even if not everything was mentioned,  
I dont think that knowing  more about things  the policy didnt cover wouldve made any 
difference to Mr and Mrs Ds decision to take the policy  out. 
Taking everything into account,  I think Mr and Mrs D still wouldve decided  to buy the policy 
to protect  Mr D even if theyd been  better  informed as it provided useful protection in their 
particular situation.  I dont think having clearer information wouldve put them off buying  it. 
Mr and Mrs D paid for this policy each month.  I havent seen anything to suggest that paying 
for the policy was a problem for them. And they couldve cancelled  it at any time without 
incurring any extra cost if they no longer wanted to pay to keep the policy  Lloyds sold them.  
Ref: DRN46610783So I dont  find that Mr and Mrs D have  lost out as a result of anything  Lloyds mightve  done  
wrong when it sold them  this PPI policy. This means theres nothing it needs to do to put 
things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4661078