K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Lloyds  Bank  PLC mis-sold him a credit card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I have attached my provisional decision from November  2018,  which  forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out why I was not minded to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Mr M has made some additional comments  that I will 
address below.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint  and Ill explain why.
Mr M asks how Lloyds  can claim he agreed  to the policy when it has no detailed record  of 
the sale. I wouldnt expect  Lloyds to have kept in-depth records for a sale that happened in 
1998. But crucially  it was able to provide a copy  of the application form, which  I consider to 
be a significant  piece of evidence.
Mr M has reiterated that he never knowingly took out PPI. He maintains his view that the 
application form must have been filled in or altered  after he had signed  it. I appreciate the 
strength of Mr Ms views,  and his testimony has given  me considerable pause for thought. 
But looking  at all of the evidence, and what I think is most likely to have happened,  I am 
unable to conclude  that the tick in the PPI box was added after Mr M had signed  it. Overall, I 
think it is more likely  that Mr M agreed  to the policy, even if he no longer remembers doing 
so.
Mr M has said that Lloyds has a record of dishonesty and has made  reference  to a fine that 
it received from the FCA for poor complaint  handling. But that fine related to the way that 
Lloyds dealt with complaints during  a period  in 2012-13, and not the time that it was looking 
at Mr Ms complaint. Besides, regardless of how Lloyds may have dealt with the complaint in 
this instance,  I have looked at all the evidence afresh to reach my own conclusions.
For the reasons  I have  explained, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN40716152my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN40716153COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a credit card payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr M took out the PPI at the same time as applying for the credit card in 1998.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  and so the 
complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website  and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive currently decided  not to uphold Mr Ms complaint  and Ill explain why.
Although Lloyds doesnt  have a record of how the credit card and PPI was sold to Mr M  so it doesnt 
know whether  it was in a branch or via post  it does have a copy  of the actual application form.
Mr M has also told us that he cant remember how the policy was sold to him, which isnt surprising 
given how long ago it was. But based on recent comments by Mr M, I think  it is more likely than not 
that the sale was conducted in branch.
Mr M has said that he wasnt aware that the policy had been  added to the credit card account, so it 
was added  without his knowledge or consent.  Ive looked at the application form that Mr M signed. 
Under the heading Optional Features there is a section for the Payment  Protection Plan and a box 
has been ticked in that section to request the cover. 
Mr M accepts  that it is his signature on the form. However he says that he didnt fill the form in, its not 
in his handwriting and it wasnt him that put the tick in the PPI box. He says that his mothers  maiden 
name is incorrect, which he would never have got wrong. Mr M further says that theres  nothing  to 
prove that the tick wasnt added to the PPI box after he signed the form.
Mr Ms comments  are why I believe the sale probably  took place in a branch of Lloyds. It was not 
unusual for advisers to complete forms on behalf of customers during  the application process. So I 
dont think there is anything unusual or suspicious about it not being Mr Ms handwriting. This would 
also explain  why Mr Ms mothers maiden  name is wrong  the name  on the form is similar to the 
correct maiden name  so I think it is likely that the adviser misheard what Mr M said.  And Mr M had 
the opportunity to check the form before he signed it, to ensure the information was correct.
Whilst it is possible  that someone else ticked the PPI box after Mr M had signed  it, I find that unlikely. 
In saying  this I note that beneath the PPI section of the form there was another  section  for a different 
type of insurance. If, as Mr M suggests,  the advisor  added the tick for the PPI afterwards, I might have  
expected a tick to have  also been  added to the box in that section, so that Mr M ended up having  all 
of the available  insurance options. 
Overall I think  that the PPI was presented as optional. It seems to me that Mr M probably decided to 
buy it, knowing  that he didnt  have to, even if he no longer remembers  doing so.
Ref: DRN40716154Lloyds says it advised Mr M to take out the policy. Therefore  in recommending the PPI to him, it 
needed to ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Ms circumstances at the time,  I 
think the policy was suitable for him.
Mr M says he cant  remember if his employer at the time would have given him any sick pay. 
Regardless, the policy would have  paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than 
Mr M would have received full pay for. Mr M has said that he had some  savings. But the policy would  
have allowed him to retain these or use them  to cover  any other outgoings at what  would  have been a 
difficult time. I therefore think that Mr M had a need for the policy  and could have benefitted  from it.
Its possible that Lloyds didnt provide as much information about the PPI as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr M wasnt affected by any of those things. As I 
think that Mr M had an interest in the policy and decided  to buy it, I dont think  that further information  
would have caused him to change  his mind.
This means  that Lloyds  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Mr M about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back  the amount of commission and profit  share  that was above 
50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
On another note, Mr M has asked why no PPI payments appeared on his statements. From the 
information I have seen, Mr M had a habit of usually  paying his credit card off in full each month.  PPI 
would not have been chargeable on a zero balance  and thats why it wouldnt have appeared  on his 
statements.
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned  above, I do not currently uphold Mr Ms complaint.
But Lloyds Bank PLC has paid back to Mr M any commission and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. So I dont award any further compensation.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4071615