K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV)s decision to 
settle a claim as a fault claim under his car insurance policy.
background
Mr B bought a car insurance policy  with the insurer LV. He was involved in a collision with 
another car. The circumstances are that Mr B left a layby and carried out a U turn - turning 
his car to travel in the opposite  direction. The other driver - already established on the road - 
collided into Mr Bs car. Mr B said he was already established on the road and was almost 
stationary when the collision occurred. 
Mr B said the other driver admitted fault at the scene. He believes the other driver is at fault 
as he had ample time to see Mr B and should  have slowed down.
The other drivers insurer said Mr B pulled out into their clients path.
LV investigated the claim. It said there was no CCTV,  no independent witnesses  or 
dashcam footage. It looked  at images of the road and the layby. From the circumstances as 
Mr B described, LV decided its chances  of succeeding in a claim against the other drivers 
insurer were low. On balance, LV decided it was better to settle the claim as a fault claim.  It 
said the greater  duty of care was on Mr B to check it was safe and clear before  he carried  
out his manoeuvre. LV settled the claim on a without prejudice  basis.  This meant Mr B 
could pursue the other driver directly and if he succeeded, LV would update  its records. 
LV said Mr B could  do this  but at his own risk and cost. 
Mr B remained unhappy  and asked us to look at his complaint.  He feels LV didnt listen to 
him or take into account  his version of events.  He had concerns  about the competency  of the 
other driver.  He was unhappy that the other  driver drove away  from the scene before 
allowing Mr B to take photos of his car. 
Our investigator thought LV had acted reasonably. Mr B didnt agree. He believes the other 
driver didnt judge the stopping distance  or driving  conditions at the time. He believes the 
other driver was entirely at fault for the incident and that LV hasnt properly investigated the 
claim.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
LV has a very common  term which Ive seen in most  if not all car insurance policies. This 
term allows LV to take over the defence  and settlement of a claim in Mr Bs name.  This 
means that LV might make a decision Mr B disagrees with, but the policy  allows it to do this. 
We dont disagree with this term in principle, provided an insurer can show it treated its 
customer fairly.
Ref: DRN41300072We dont decide  liability. This is the role of the courts.  We can look at whether an insurer 
reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy.
Even if someone admits  fault at the scene of an incident, this isnt something taken into 
account when  a claim is made. Both representatives  of the parties  look at the circumstances 
of the incident and a decision is made  either to settle or take the matter to court.  
LV is entitled  to make a decision that its better  to settle a claim where  it has low chances of 
success rather than risk significant court costs. 
I think LV properly considered its chances of success taking into account everything  Mr B 
has said. I understand how strongly Mr B feels that he isnt at fault for the incident. He 
believes LV hasnt considered the age of the other driver and the fact that he drove away 
from the scene. I think the issues Mr B raised have been considered by LV. But I agree that 
they dont make a difference to the outcome. LV explained to Mr B why it accepted  fault 
based on the circumstances:
Although I appreciate the strength  of feeling  that you have in regards to holding  the 
other party liable for the accident,  we would first have to accept that the other party  
was already on the road when we were continuing to get onto the road.
The situation  is further complicated that we are aware that the other party  was going 
at about 50mph in what I recall you stating were  wet conditions; which would have 
meant a considerable amount of difficulty for the third party to be able to stop in time 
as a result.
I do appreciate that they should  have been able to have seen your vehicle 
considering the distance of about 200 yards when you looked at your rear-view 
mirror. However,  even  in the short time between you looking in your mirror  to starting  
or continuing to move  off they would  have reduced that distance  considerably.
Also, in a road collision such as this, the onus is on ourselves to make  sure the road 
was clear. I understand that you made sure before moving that the road was clear,  
however, we have  to be able to substantiate this in the evidence we have.
Therefore, having  reviewed the circumstances  that we were moving at the time onto 
a road which  we were  not established fully, if this was to go in front of a Judge  using 
the balance of probability to assess this accident,  I do not think that they would find in 
our favour.
We know  from experience this is not a claim we can defend as the other car was 
established on the main road and had right of way. You may feel they should have 
done more to avoid the collision, but as the person carrying out the manoeuvre  you 
had the greater duty of care.
I think LV took into account all of the information it had and reached its decision to settle the 
claim as a fault claim in a reasonable way. As it did so on a without prejudice  basis,  Mr B is 
free to consider legal action against the other driver. He will need to seek his own legal 
advice about that. 
I understand Mr B will be disappointed,  but this means Im not upholding his complaint.
Ref: DRN41300073my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4130007