K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained that Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him First Additions, 
Additions, Additions Active  and Current Account Plus packaged bank accounts in 2007,  
2008 and 2010.
background
Our adjudicators looked at Mr Ns complaint and didnt think  Barclays  had mis-sold the 
packaged accounts. Mr N disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ns complaint. 
Ive carefully thought  about everything Ive seen on this complaint. And having done  so, Im 
not upholding Mr Ns complaint. Id like to explain the reasons why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr N was given a clear  choice in taking the accounts. 
At this point, it may help for me to explain  that I have to make  my decision based  on what I 
think is most likely  to have happened. And in working out what  I think  is most likely  to have 
happened, I have to think about everything Ive been  told together  with everything else Ive 
been provided with and see how this fits with what I do know. In other words, what  l have to 
do, in this case, is decide what I think is most likely  to have happened having  weighed up 
what Mr N and Barclays have been  able to provide me with.  
Mr N says he was led to believe the upgrades were necessary to be able to get a loan or 
mortgage with Barclays. I dont know what Mr N was told at the time of either sale. But what  I 
do know is Mr N already  had an overdraft when he switched to these accounts. So I think  
Mr N wouldve known he didnt have to have a packaged account  to be able to borrow 
money from Barclays. And even if I were  to accept that this doesnt  necessarily mean  Mr N 
wouldve known he couldve had a loan or mortgage with Barclays without also having  a 
packaged account, I wouldve expected him to have  remained on the cheapest one 
available, if he genuinely believed this was the case.  
So Im afraid  that the available evidence  the sheer number of switches some of which  were  
to cheaper accounts   doesnt support that Mr N only agreed  to the upgrades  solely because 
he was misled into thinking he had to be able to have a loan or mortgage with Barclays.  And, 
in these circumstances, I think  its more likely than not that Mr N chose to upgrade to the 
packaged accounts after having been given a choice.  
  
When Mr N took the Additions Active account,  the main benefit it included that set it apart 
from the others he had was travel insurance. Mr N travelled.  So I think  that its fair to say that 
he, at the very least, had a protection need  for travel  insurance. And Ive seen  no reason 
why Mr N couldnt have  used the cover  included on the account.  
The main  benefit  included on Mr Ns other  packaged accounts was mobile phone insurance. 
Mr N registered a handset for the mobile  phone insurance. So I think  its fair to say that he 
had a need for this cover  and also that he was relying on it. 
Ref: DRN43511792I accept that all of the accounts included other benefits. And that Mr N may not have wanted  
or needed all of them. But the benefits  on packaged accounts come as overall packages.  
And its rare for an accountholder to want  or need all the benefits. At the time the accounts 
were sold they were either the cheapest, or only one, in Barclays  range  to include the 
benefits Mr N looks to have wanted at the respective times. Equally Mr N wouldnt have 
been able to have the benefits he did want without having the rest of the package  either.  So 
not needing all of the benefits doesnt  mean that the accounts were mis-sold. 
Overall I think  that Mr N did use some of the benefits on the accounts. And I think  that he 
was eligible for and couldve used others too. So while Im open to the possibility Mr N may 
not have been told absolutely everything he needed  to know,  I think that Mr N was told 
enough for him to be able to decide  if the accounts  were right for him. And as I havent seen 
anything in Mr Ns circumstances to suggest he wouldve been  affected by the main 
limitations and exclusions  on the benefits, I dont think  clearer  information wouldve stopped 
him from taking the accounts either.
Mr N may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, believe that he hasnt benefitted  from the 
accounts as much as hed hoped and expected to when he initially took them out. And given 
what he mightve read and heard about  packaged  accounts in general, I can understand why 
this might lead him to believe his accounts were  mis-sold. But I have to base my decision on 
what I think is most likely  to have happened at the time of the respective sales  and I cant  
use hindsight when  reaching my conclusion. Having  carefully thought about everything,  I 
think Mr N chose to take each account  after being told what it included.  
So although  Mr N may now think the accounts havent proved  to be value for money over the 
period of time he had them this doesnt mean  that they were  mis-sold to him. 
I want to reassure Mr N that Ive looked at all the information provided  and thought about 
everything hes said. Although having done  so and while I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for him, I dont think that Barclays mis-sold  his packaged accounts to him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4351179