K821x#15Complaint
Mr W complains as a director  of C, a limited company that HSBC  UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) 
havent managed  Cs account and applications for lending fairly.
Background 
In October  2018, Mr W applied for a business bank  account on behalf  of C.
Mr W has said he was told by the adviser  at HSBC  that it was illegal to have two business 
accounts open at the same time. This concerned him as he didnt want  to close Cs existing 
account with a different bank. Hes also said the adviser asked  him lots of questions  about 
himself, and how the account  would be used which made him feel uncomfortable.
Despite the above, the application  was completed, and an account was opened. Mr W was 
also told C wouldnt be eligible for an overdraft  for a period of 12 months.  C also kept its 
existing business  account open,  despite the information Mr W was previously  given.
On 14 February 2019, C secured a new business contract, so Mr W asked  the branch 
adviser, if they could  help arrange an overdraft. The adviser asked him to provide a copy  of 
the business contract, and said shed  discuss  it with an underwriter  to see if there was 
anything they could do to help. The adviser has since said she didnt process a formal 
application at this time, as she believed it would be rejected based  on the lending decision 
that was made when  the account  was set up in October 2018. On 25 February 2019, Mr W 
has said the adviser told him shed discussed  Cs account with an underwriter, and no 
overdraft could be offered.
 
In March 2019, the adviser called Mr W to say she needed to send him a form to complete 
which should have  been filled out following  their meeting in February. Mr W has said he was 
told the form related  to data protection, however, he realised this wasnt the case when  he 
received the form by courier  on the following day. He was also caused concern as the 
adviser had ticked a box on the form on his behalf,  which indicated hed been provided  with 
a copy of the form to keep  for his records. However, this couldnt  be the case, as he says the 
envelope only contained one copy of the form and this was due to be given back  to the 
courier. He therefore  believes he was sent a false declaration to sign. He was also worried 
about the identity of the courier as he didnt know which  company they worked for. 
Mr W then raised  a complaint on behalf of C, as he was concerned  about  the form hed 
received and refused to sign it. He also said he suspected  that an underwriter hadnt actually 
considered Cs request  for an overdraft in February,  as the form made no mention of this, 
instead it just talked about insurance. 
On 1 April  2019,  HSBC responded to these  concerns, by explaining that the form they sent 
him was from an insurer and related to business protection  insurance. They  also said the 
adviser would  contact him directly, in relation to the overdraft application as it was still being 
considered. They also reminded  him that a lending decision  had previously been  made when 
the account was opened,  and the adviser  was investigating whether this decision could be 
changed.
Ref: DRN41485772A few days  later, Mr W has explained that he called HSBCs  customer  service department as 
he still hadnt heard back  from the adviser. The agent said she couldnt see that a lending 
application was outstanding, so she completed  an application with him during the call. 
Unfortunately, this application was declined, and Mr W was sent written confirmation of this 
on 17 April 2019. This letter explained the key reason the application was declined, HSBCs  
formal appeal process and also signposted  Mr W to other forms of lending.  
HSBC also confirmed their lending decision in a final response letter dated 23 April 2019.  
Mr W has said this caused him some additional upset, as although hed told HSBC he was 
unhappy, he also said he planned on sending them a formal  complaint in writing,  and he felt 
he should have  been given this opportunity.  When HSBC subsequently received his 
complaint letter, a further final response  was therefore issued.
Mr W then complained that the branch  adviser didnt return  any of his calls or reply to his 
emails about Cs account since  April. He also said he was concerned nobody could tell him 
the name of the courier company, the adviser  had used to send him the form in March. 
HSBC apologised  for this in September and explained that the lack of response was 
because the adviser  had been absent.  They also said they couldnt confirm which courier  
company the adviser used, as she was the only person who knew this information.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint in part. This was because  he didnt think  the adviser 
had done anything wrong when the account was opened. He also thought it was unlikely C 
would have been granted an overdraft in February, given the lending decision that had 
already been made in October. However, he wasnt satisfied HSBC had been  able to 
demonstrate that an underwriter had actually been consulted.  He reached this conclusion  
because he said there was no documentary evidence to support this referral, other than an 
internal memo that wasnt completed by the adviser until March.  He also said C had 
experienced some inconvenience due to the lack of contact since  April. Finally, he said he 
thought HSBC had caused some confusion in relation  to the form Mr W was sent, as it 
wasnt from an insurer. However,  he didnt  think the contents of the form was unusual, or 
reasonably caused C any material inconvenience.
To resolve  the complaint,  the investigator  recommended that HSBC should  pay C, £250 
compensation to say sorry  for the inconvenience their actions caused. In response, HSBC  
said theyd already credited £200 to Cs account  to say sorry for the poor customer  service  
theyd provided, so this compensation needed  to be taken into consideration. The 
investigator then explained they just needed to pay the £50 difference,  to make sure C 
received £250  in total.
Mr W didnt accept this outcome on behalf of C, as he said he was told the £200 was just for 
poor communication. Hes also said he hasnt  seen any evidence  that an underwriter was 
consulted in February. Finally hes said hes concerned about the way HSBC  handled his 
personal data, as he believes HSBC should  be able to provide  him with the details of the 
courier company, the adviser used.
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint 
and Ill now explain why.
Ref: DRN41485773A limited company is a separate legal entity from the people who run it. This means I cant  
direct HSBC to pay Mr W any compensation for any distress he may have personally 
experienced. I can make an award for any inconvenience C may have suffered as long as it 
was experienced  by the company itself, rather than Mr W directly.
At the time of the account application, HSBC were entitled to complete a fact find about C. 
This involved asking  questions and completing  relevant searches, to help them understand 
how C operates and decide if they were  prepared to offer an account. As such, while I 
appreciate this process may have felt intrusive, I dont think  its likely the adviser did anything  
wrong here.
HSBC have said they prefer their business  customers not to have more  than one business  
bank account.  So, I think its possible a misunderstanding may have taken place, and this is 
the reason Mr W recalls being  told that it was illegal to have two accounts. As C has 
maintained its existing account in any event, Im satisfied this possible misunderstanding 
didnt cause C any inconvenience.
HSBC havent  been able to provide  any documentary evidence  from February  2019,  which  
suggests Cs request  for an overdraft was considered by an underwriter. This means I cant  
know for certain what happened. Its possible the adviser made a mistake in terms of adding 
the appropriate notes to the system, but its equally possible  no escalation took place. As C 
was trying to obtain funding to help them deliver  a new contract, Im satisfied this confusion  
and uncertainty  caused C to experience some inconvenience. This is especially because, it 
is unclear if the adviser signposted  other forms of lending at this time.
However, even if Cs request wasnt considered  by an underwriter in February. I dont  think  
this means, C was declined access to an overdraft unfairly. This is because at the time the 
account was opened, HSBC considered Cs request and based  on its lending  criteria, 
decided that no lending would be offered for a period of 12 months. As this was a 
commercial decision,  I see no reason to interfere with it.
I also note that when a further lending application  was processed in April,  this was also 
declined, and Mr W was advised to apply again,  once  the original 12 month  period  expired in 
October 2019. As such, while HSBC caused C some inconvenience,  I dont think they acted 
unfairly by declining to provide an overdraft facility.
I also think HSBC caused some confusion in relation to the form Mr W was asked  to sign in 
March. This is because they explained  it was from an insurer and this wasnt the case. An 
admin error  also meant Mr W wasnt provided with an additional copy of the form, despite  
the adviser indicating on his behalf that he had been. That said,  I dont think HSBC acted 
unreasonably by asking Mr W to complete this form. I also dont think these issues  caused C 
sufficient direct inconvenience to merit compensation. 
I appreciate Mr Ws concern that HSBC havent  been able to share the name of the courier  
company that was used, to send the form to his home.  However, as the adviser who 
appointed the courier isnt available,  they cant ask her to provide this information and I dont 
think this is unreasonable.
HSBC have already  accepted they provided poor customer service,  and paid C £200  
compensation to say sorry.  In reaching  this decision, I have taken everything into 
Ref: DRN41485774consideration, and agree  with our investigator that £250 is a fair amount of compensation to 
reflect all of the avoidable inconvenience HSBC caused C to experience. This means,  I 
require HSBC to pay C £50 further compensation.
I know Mr W feels the compensation should be substantially increased, but based on 
everything Ive considered, Im satisfied £250 is a fair amount. Its clear HSBC caused  C 
some inconvenience  that merits compensation for the reasons Ive explained. However,      
Mr W was also told in October  2018, that it was unlikely C would be eligible for any finance 
for a period  of 12 months. So, Im satisfied the detriment to C was limited and there arent  
sufficient grounds for the compensation to be increased.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require HSBC UK Bank  Plc to pay C £50 additional 
compensation, if they havent already done  so.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W on behalf of 
C to accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2021.
Claire Greene
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4148577