K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Aberdeen Standard Capital Limited (ASC) - previously Standard Life 
Wealth (SLW)  did not manage his portfolio as it shouldve done  because:
The statements made by SLW  in the pre-sale documents  were  misleading and 
untruthful.
His circumstances changed  in August 2016  and he wanted income.
His portfolio has performed appallingly  and the root cause of this is the decline of the 
Strategic Investment Allocation (SIA) fund.
There has been a complete  lack of governance of the SIA fund.
The governance committee allowed increasing  volumes of client funds invested in 
ordinary investments to be sold with this being  diverted  into the SIA fund.
The SIA fund lacks  any appropriate  reporting.
Far from protecting his capital  as he wanted the losses within the SIA fund appear to 
have arisen from speculative risks which fall outside the scope of his attitude  to risk.
The better performing  ordinary investments  in the portfolio  have been  used to mask 
the underperforming SIA fund.
His attitude to risk is cautious  which has been regularly communicated to ASC.
The management fee isnt justified given  the performance of the SIA fund.
background
In late 2010 Mr M along with his IFA met with ASC to discuss  it providing  a discretionary 
portfolio management  service to him. In July 2011 it provided him with a proposal for it to 
provide this service  in relation to an Offshore Bond and SIPP and Mr M entered  into an 
agreement with SLW in August 2011  based on the proposal it had made. In 2013  his ISA 
also became part of his portfolio.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, a copy  of which  is attached to this final 
decision and forms part of it. I provisionally decided that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
In summary  my key findings were:
It is reasonably clear that what has caused Mr M to complain is the performance  of 
his portfolio, in particular  the performance  of the SIA fund.
ASC werent advising  him about  the suitability  of any one investment in his portfolio. 
Its role was to provide  a discretionary service and manage his investments in 
accordance with the agreed mandate  so in accordance with his objectives and risk 
profile - and its investment strategy.
ASCs proposal to Mr M was based on the risk questionnaire and goal questionnaire 
he completed with the help of his IFA.
The proposal identified his goal for his SIPP and offshore bond as wealth 
preservation and his risk (in terms of volatility of his portfolio) as low to medium.
The benchmark of LIBOR  + 2.5%  was based  on his objective  and risk category.
Mr M had the benefit of advice from his IFA and if he or his IFA thought  the risk 
category was wrong, he didnt  have to agree to the proposal.
The proposal made clear reference to the SIA fund, its role in reducing volatility  and 
its use of derivatives.
It explained clearly  why diversifying the portfolio rather than just picking assets that 
matched a customers risk appetite was appropriate.
Ref: DRN47273572The information Mr M and his IFA were given  made clear  the SIA fund was an 
integral part of the risk management  strategy of the portfolio and wasnt just another 
asset.
It isnt appropriate  to look at this complaint as if it is about advice to invest in the SIA 
fund as a standalone  investment as ASC werent  providing advice  about  investing in 
the fund, or any specific fund within the portfolio.
The movement from other assets in the portfolio into the SIA fund and out again was 
within ASCs discretion and the information Mr M had provided only showed a 5% 
movement into and out of the fund, which wasnt significant.
The overall amount  invested in the fund was in accordance with the purpose of the 
fund.
The SIA fund performed poorly  from 2016 onwards due to decisions made by the 
fund manager.  But its part of the fund managers  role to make  decision based on 
what he thinks is going to happen and it isnt my role to second guess such 
decisions.
Im not satisfied that the SIA fund is a hedge fund.
I gave the parties  the opportunity of responding and providing further information. Mr M 
didnt agree with my provisional decision.  He made  the following  points:
It was totally  inaccurate to say that his complaint was caused  by the performance of 
his portfolio, as his submission made  clear  his complaint was based on the portfolio  
being unsuitable for him based  on his very cautious attitude to risk and about  the 
governance of the portfolio, particularly the SIA fund.
My colleagues found in his favour  and clearly all the evidence  submitted by him and 
ASC was considered  by them. 
Presumably I have been party  to some very persuasive additional evidence from 
ASC which has led me to find against  the decisions of my colleagues.
My colleagues referred  to the SIA fund as a hedge fund and it is run and acts like a 
hedge fund and as such it was unacceptable  to him and as stated  by my colleagues  
the absolute maximum for a fund such as this was 7.5% not the 30% plus that was 
invested in the SIA fund.
I clarified that I had relied on the information  already available, not new evidence  and Mr M 
then provided, in summary,  the following response:
It has taken around two years for the case to reach me over which the parties  had 
the option to provide their views and evidence  and our service  has ruled twice in his 
favour with consistent reasons why.
I should spend further time reviewing all the submissions and the clear, detailed and 
comprehensive rulings in his favour.
In normal legal  practice such as court hearings appeals  are never granted in the 
absence of new evidence  and the same  principle should  apply here.
I have overruled two previous findings  without any new evidence.
I have misquoted his evidence, for example by saying what  has caused  Mr M to 
complain is the performance of his portfolio when his complaint wasnt  based on 
performance but suitability of the portfolio.
My explanation around other  key points  lacked substantive argument unlike my 
colleagues comprehensive reasoned arguments  supporting their decisions.
Ref: DRN47273573An example  of this is that the SIA fund is clearly a Hedge Fund as my colleagues 
found, and certainly operates  as one, so shouldnt have  been included  in his portfolio, 
or if it was to a far lesser percentage.
He understood  our service was introduced to protect the consumer and given  them a 
voice to ensure justice is done.
He understands  that there  has been  a plethora of cases brought against  ASC which 
he thought were going to be co-ordinated  so his case  should be kept open until he 
has an explanation  of what happened  in those cases.
He was assured  his cases  would be judged on its individual merits, as it should, but 
this additional  information could be relevant.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has suggested that our service  was set up to protect the consumer, but that isnt our 
role. We were not set up to protect  the consumer, we are an independent and impartial  
alternative dispute resolution  service.
I note what Mr M has said about me misquoting  his evidence, and he has referred to the 
cause of his complaint not being  about performance as an example. I am sorry for any 
confusion caused  by what I have said. I acknowledge that he has complained  about 
suitability of the portfolio and the governance of the SIA fund, and this is what I have made  
findings on in my provisional decision.  But I also still think it is the performance of his 
portfolio which  has led him to complain and if his portfolio  had performed well, I think it is 
very unlikely  he wouldve  complained. 
Mr M has suggested that I take time to consider  the opinions of my colleagues, which  were  
in his favour, and the submissions made. But I have fully considered all the submissions and 
information available,  and the opinions of my colleagues, before making  my provisional  
decision.
We do endeavour to avoid different  outcomes between an investigator or adjudicator and an 
ombudsman as much as possible, but it isnt always possible. I am not bound by their 
opinions as I must look at all the evidence and make my own findings and decision based on 
the information provided  which is what I have done in this complaint.
Mr M has suggested that the same principles that apply to appeals  in court proceedings 
should be applied  in this complaint, but we are an independent alternative dispute resolution 
service, as I have said, and operate under our own rules. That having been  said, a court  
appeal is a review  of a lower court  judgment and the appeal court generally relies on the 
evidence that was before the lower  court, not on new evidence - so the role of the 
ombudsman isnt dissimilar to that of an appeal court. 
I have come to a different conclusion to the investigator and adjudicator  because  Im not 
satisfied that the portfolio was unsuitable  for Mr M as a result of the SIA fund being part of 
the portfolio, or otherwise.
ASC was providing a discretionary  portfolio management service  in accordance with the 
mandate that had been agreed. The proposal  that had been given to Mr M and his IFA - 
which they agreed to  identified Mr Ms objective  as wealth preservation with a low to 
Ref: DRN47273574medium risk profile. The proposal put forward was based on this, and the SIA fund  which  is 
at the heart of this complaint  was a key part of its low/medium risk portfolio as the proposal 
made clear. 
The proposal explained that the SIA fund was used for volatility management of the portfolio. 
And the proposed portfolio set out in the proposal  showed a significant amount  would  be 
invested in the SIA fund - £57,000 out of £200,000 for the offshore bond  and £85,500  out of 
£300,000 for the SIPP, amounting to around 28.5% of the total amount invested. 
The description of the fund in the proposal was as follows:
The Standard Life Wealth Strategic Investment Allocation Fund is a unique  proposition  
designed to reduce volatility within clients portfolios. The fund uses derivatives positions to 
make uncorrelated  investments and hedge certain underlying risks within  the portfolios. 
These strategies  are usually only available to institutional investors.
So, the description made clear that the fund used derivatives and hedging. In addition, the 
proposal had an attached  appendix about  the SIA fund which provided further information 
about it.
In the circumstances I think the information  Mr M and his IFA were  given  made it very clear  
that the SIA fund wasnt just another fund within the portfolio, but was a fundamental part of 
it, and used to manage volatility by investing  in investments that werent  in correlation to 
other assets in the portfolio. 
I note what Mr M has said about the SIA fund being  operated as a hedge fund and that this 
was unacceptable  to him. But even  if it is a hedge fund  and for reasons set out in my 
provisional decision Im not satisfied  it is - he and his IFA were  told that the fund used 
derivatives and hedged. If he wasnt  happy with this, he shouldnt  have agreed to the 
proposal. In going  ahead with the portfolio having  been told how the SIA fund worked I think 
he agreed to it being part of his portfolio regardless  of it using hedging. 
Mr M has referred to the 7.5% hedge fund limit in the portfolio benchmark the adjudicator  
referred to. I have already commented  on this in my provisional decision. I dont think this is 
relevant, as the SIA fund wasnt just another fund in the portfolio but a fundamental part of 
the overall portfolio strategy, as I think the proposal  made clear.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN47273575COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M complains that Aberdeen Standard Capital  Limited  (ASC) - previously Standard Life Wealth   
did not manage his portfolio  as it shouldve  done because:
The statements made by SLW  in the pre-sale documents were  misleading and untruthful.
His circumstances changed in August 2016 and he wanted income.
His portfolio has performed appallingly and the root cause of this is the decline of the 
Strategic Investment Allocation (SIA) fund.
There has been  a complete lack of governance of the SIA fund.
The governance  committee  allowed increasing volumes of client funds  invested in ordinary 
investments to be sold with this being diverted  into the SIA fund.
The SIA fund lacks any appropriate reporting.
Far from protecting his capital as he wanted the losses within  the SIA fund appear to have 
arisen from speculative risks which fall outside the scope  of his attitude to risk.
The better  performing  ordinary investments in the portfolio have been used to mask the 
underperforming SIA fund.
His attitude to risk is cautious which has been regularly communicated  to ASC.
The management fee isnt justified given  the performance of the SIA fund.
background
In late 2010 Mr M along with his IFA met with ASC to discuss it providing a discretionary portfolio  
management service to him. In July 2011 it provided him with a proposal for it to provide this service 
in relation to an Offshore Bond and SIPP  and Mr M entered into an agreement with SLW in August  
2011 based on the proposal it had made. In 2013  his ISA also became part of his portfolio.
Mr M complained in 2018 because he was unhappy  with how his portfolio had performed. ASC 
provided a detailed response. In summary  I think the key points it made are as follows:
The change to Mr Ms circumstances in 2016 was assessed and it was determined that no 
change to the design or management of the portfolio was necessary.
The income  that was arranged to be paid from the bond of £220 each month was less than 
1% of the portfolio  value and no change  would  be made to accommodate that level of 
payment.
The portfolio has been managed in accordance  with the agreed mandate and Mr Ms attitude 
to risk throughout the period  of his investment.
The interaction of the SIA fund with other assets in the portfolio was explained  to him and is a 
risk management  tool.
The SIA fund cannot  be viewed in isolation  as it only provides part of the overall investment 
strategy.
SLW doesnt consider  the risk of individual funds within the portfolio in isolation,  it considers 
and reviews  the risks of the portfolio as a whole.
Volatility of returns  is the key metric on which portfolio risk is referenced, and in the original 
proposal for the SIPP the expected volatility risk was 6.3% but more recently  it wouldve 
quoted a volatility  range  of 4.0%  - 9.0% and volatility  has been well within this range and 
consistently lower than the level of volatility quoted at the outset. 
Mr M signed up to a medium/low risk profile, but the volatility has been broadly in line with UK 
Gilts over the long term which it would  consider relatively cautious.
It had delivered on client returns around 90% of the time when it said this to Mr M.
The overall  growth in the portfolio over the period  of investment with SLW was 19.02% which 
amounts to average growth per annum of 2.5%.
Ref: DRN47273576One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint and thought it should  be upheld.  In summary he 
made the following  points:
ASC shouldve been  aware of Mr Ms very low risk tolerance at the outset based  on the 
information he had provided at the time of investing and he shouldve been considered a 
cautious risk investor and it shouldve known  that the Target Return strategy wasnt suitable.
The potential downside risks of the SIA fund werent sufficiently explained in the client 
proposal.
Trading in derivatives is generally  considered to be very high risk and the information 
currently available in the public domain  makes this much clearer.
Mr M would most likely have been uncomfortable with medium  term losses to his portfolio  or 
to a portion of it.
He has not seen anything  to explain the restriction in the 2011 proposal to no hedge  funds  or 
structured products as this wouldve precluded  the SIA fund.
The asset  allocation of the FTSE  APCIMS Private Investor Index  for conservative investors   
one of the benchmarks for portfolio  managers  shows  the asset  allocation for hedge funds at 
7.5% and the 30% exposure allocation of the SIA fund was a substantial divergence from this 
benchmark - and in Mr Ms case was simply too high.
ASC had a meeting  with Mr M in 2016 which  refers to an unchanged monthly withdrawal  of 
£220 from his portfolio  and this didnt  require any change to the portfolio.
Enough information was provided to Mr M at the meeting for him to transfer out of the portfolio 
on the assumption he was still a low-risk investor.
On that basis he has calculated redress on the basis Mr M shouldve decided to come out of 
the portfolio in August  2016.
ASC didnt  agree with the adjudicator. In summary  it made the following points:
It is a discretionary fund manager and doesnt have authority  to provide advice.
The client  gives  authority for it to make investment  decisions on their behalf in accordance  
with their risk appetite and investment  goals.
In this case the client agreed  to a Target Return Portfolio  with a low to medium level of risk 
following a proposal document based on Mr Ms risk profile and investment goals determined 
by the questionnaires  he completed.
It was for Mr Ms IFA to ensure the suitability  of the ISA, Pension and Offshore Bond and that 
the discretionary management service was in line with Mr Ms risk appetite and investment 
goals.
It has signed terms of agreement with the IFA confirming he is responsible for all aspects of 
suitability.
The risk questionnaire  was completed by the IFA and client and it takes all responses into 
account to form an overall view of the clients  investment objective  and attitude to risk for the 
portfolio.
The outcome it offered based on the clients objective  of wealth preservation with a risk profile 
of low/medium and the outcome was the Target return  portfolio that Mr M through the IFA 
invested in  it only offered investment solutions based on the Target Return  proposition and 
only the IFA could consider this as against other options in the market  matching Mr Ms 
criteria.
The SIA fund provides balance and diversification in the overall asset mix of the portfolio  and 
its action  on a portfolio reduces the overall level of risk (volatility of returns) to levels that may 
not be possible with traditional  investments.
The volatility would  compare  favourably to traditional lower risk asset classes.
The SIA fund is not a hedge fund or structured product  it isnt a standalone vehicle and 
cannot be purchased  as one. It is an FCA approved UCITs fund.
Mr M was sent regular quarterly  reports  and had meetings with the portfolio manager, but his 
IFA also had direct  access to the portfolio  manager and was sent numerous updates on the 
positioning of the Target Return  strategies to help him decide if these  remained suitable  for 
his clients.
Ref: DRN47273577Mr M hasnt made a los and it was close to delivering  the target  set with him at the outset.
In response one of our investigators  confirmed that it was accepted that ASC hadnt given advice. But 
he said that the amount invested in the SIA fund exposed Mr Ms portfolio to too much risk  outside 
the low to medium risk he wanted - given  many investments within  the fund were  high risk and 
speculative.
ASC still didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman  decision.
Mr M did agree  with the decision to uphold  the complaint but not that redress should be limited to 
2016 as the adjudicator  found. In summary  he said:
In addition to the absolute mismanagement of the SIA fund and continued  proven  losses,  as 
detailed in the spreadsheet he has previously provided, it is clear  that the investment was 
totally wrong for his attitude  to risk.
He doesnt agree  that he shouldve left the portfolio in August 2016 as a result of the meeting 
he had with ASC.
It assured him his income and capital requirements  would be met and was adamant  he 
should stay with it. Having accepted  underperformance for so long and the assurances all 
would come  good, what  was he supposed to do?
As neither  party agreed with the adjudicator the matter has been  referred to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I think  it is reasonably  clear  that what has caused Mr M to complain  is the performance of his portfolio 
- in particular  the performance of the SIA fund. We are not able to consider complaints about  
performance alone because how a fund performs is down to the market and not something of itself 
that results from something a business  has done wrong. But Mr M has raised some specific issues 
regarding the SIA fund which I will comment on. 
The main issue Mr M has raised is about the SIA fund not being  suitable  for him because it fell 
outside his attitude to risk. In short Mr M says he was a cautious risk investor and that the fund was 
too risky for him. 
But it is important  to keep in mind ASC werent  advising  him about the suitability  of a particular 
investment to make sure this matched his risk appetite. It was providing a discretionary management  
service for his overall investments. 
In providing that service what it had to do was ensure that it managed  his portfolio in accordance  with 
the mandate he had given it. In other words, its management had to be in accordance with his agreed 
objectives and risk profile, and in line with the investment strategy it was using. 
ASCs proposal to him in 2011,  based  on the information from the risk questionnaire and goal risk 
questionnaire he completed with the help of his IFA, identified his goal for both the offshore bond and 
SIPP in his portfolio as wealth  preservation. Risk, which  ASC equated to volatility in its proposal, was 
identified as low to medium with expected risk (volatility)  identified as 6.3%. The benchmark of LIBOR 
+ 2.5% was based on his objective and risk category.  The same objective  and risk category were  
identified for the ISA in 2013. 
Mr M had the benefit of advice from his IFA and he didnt  have to agree with the proposal. If he and 
his IFA thought  that the risk category it had identified  for him of low to medium was wrong, he didnt 
have to go ahead with the proposal.
Ref: DRN47273578The proposal  made  clear reference to the SIA fund,  its role within  the portfolio  and its use of 
derivatives. ASC explained clearly why diversifying a clients portfolio, rather  than simply picking 
assets that were in line with the risk they were prepared  to take, was appropriate.  I think  the proposal  
from ASC provided  clear  information as to the service it was offering including the use of the SIA fund. 
I think  it also made clear  that the portfolio would not just be invested by reference to Mr Ms risk 
appetite.
The proposal  included the following: 
The fund diversifies the exposures found in the rest of your portfolio and thus allows us to dampen 
the volatility  associated  with riskier  (but higher performing) assets. It further offers the potential for 
more stable  growth to help you achieve your goals.
Im satisfied that the information that Mr M and his IFA were given made clear that SIA fund was an 
integral part of the risk management strategy of the portfolio and was used to diversify  the portfolio 
with the aim of providing positive returns  whatever the market was doing.  The proposal explained that 
the SIA fund was designed to be used in conjunction with the other assets in the portfolio. I think  it 
was clear that it wasnt just another asset within the portfolio but part of the portfolio strategy.
In the circumstances Im not persuaded  that it was inappropriate for the SIA fund to be included within 
Mr Ms portfolio because of itself it wasnt in line with his risk appetite.  It isnt appropriate to consider 
this complaint as if it is about advice to invest in the SIA fund as a standalone investment - which is 
how I think  it has been  looked  at - as ASC werent  providing advice  about the suitability  of the SIA 
fund, or any specific fund within the portfolio.
Mr M has suggested  that there has been a lack of governance  in relation to the SIA fund and that too 
much was moved from ordinary investments into the fund.  But as the discretionary manager  of Mr Ms 
portfolio it was entitled  to make decisions  as to what his portfolio should be invested in as long as this 
was in accordance with the mandate it had been given  and its investment strategy.
The movement from other assets into the SIA fund (and out again) was within ASCs discretion.  I note 
the spreadsheet Mr M has provided. But this shows that over the whole period of the portfolio  the 
fluctuation in the proportion  of the portfolio invested in the SIA fund was only between  a low of around 
29% and a high of around 34%. I dont  think  a movement of around 5% in the fund was significant. 
In terms of the overall proportion  of the portfolio  invested in the fund I think  this was in accordance 
with its stated purpose of diversifying the portfolio and helping to provide a return  when traditional  
investment assets werent performing.
There is no question that the SIA fund performed poorly  from the first part of 2016 onwards.  But that 
of itself isnt evidence  of a lack of governance or of mismanagement,  and Mr M hasnt provided  any 
persuasive evidence this is what happened.
From my understanding what  happened  in the first part of 2016 is that the fund manager expected 
interest rate rises in the USA based on steady economic growth  and positioned the fund to take 
advantage of this. At the same time the fund had various  currency positions which  favoured the US 
Dollar. But the managers  expectations as to what was going  to happen with US interest rates and 
currency didnt end up coming about so the fund suffered  losses.
It is part of the fund managers role to make decisions based  on what they think  is going  to happen 
but there is no certainty that the managers expectations will be right. It isnt for me to second guess  
the decisions of a fund manager  although I think what was happening in the USA at the time, with 
interest rates, makes his decisions understandable, as the indication was that there would be interest 
rate rises in the US in 2016.
One issue  that I think needs  clearing up is whether, or not, the SIA fund is a hedge fund.  The goals 
risk questionnaire completed by Mr M identified hedge funds and structured products as investments 
Ref: DRN47273579he didnt want to invest in. The adjudicator  said the SIA fund was a hedge  fund and that too much was 
invested in the fund based on a benchmark for conservative investors  as used by portfolio managers.
I am not aware of any definition  of hedge fund but such funds typically  invest in alternatives to 
normal investment assets such as equities, bonds and cash,  and also use a range  of investment 
techniques to achieve a profit regardless of what  is happening in the markets. The SIA fund has 
similar characteristics as a hedge fund, but Im not satisfied it should be considered one because the 
SIA fund is a UCITS  and as such there are certain regulatory requirements and limitations that apply 
to it which  wouldnt be expected to apply to a hedge fund.  
I think  that this conclusion is supported to some  extent by guidance in the FCAs  Perimeter Guidance  
Manual (PERG).  Hedge  funds are listed as one of the common types  of Alternative Investment Fund 
(AIF) at PERG16.2 (Question 2.28).
PERG 16.2 Question  2.1 asks what is the basic definition of an AIF? and then sets out six 
requirements for an AIF and says that all of them must be satisfied.  The sixth requirement is that the 
AIF does  not include an undertaking that requires authorisation under  Article  5 of the UCITS Directive.
The adjudicator also referred to a benchmark for conservative investors  used  by portfolio  managers 
which indicated hedge funds should be no more than 7.5% of assets within  the portfolio. He said that 
having around 30% in the SIA fund was a substantial divergence from this. 
If the SIA fund wasnt a hedge fund this doesnt  apply but even if it did, I dont think  this benchmark  is 
relevant. This is because the SIA fund was not just another investment asset within the portfolio but 
was central to the overall investment strategy of the portfolio,  as was made very clear in the proposal.
Mr M also complained that the information that ASC provided was misleading, but Im not satisfied 
that it was or that he was misled. He has also referred to a change of circumstances in 2016 when he 
wanted income. But ASC has said there was no need to change the portfolio as a result of this and I 
have seen no persuasive  evidence this wasnt the case.
my provisional  decision
I dont uphold  this complaint  for the reasons I have explained.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4727357