K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains on behalf of Mrs S about a default  Startline Motor  Finance Limited (Startline)  
put on Mrs Ss credit  file. She feels this is unfair and should be removed.
background
Mrs S says she took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with Startline  in 2015. She voluntarily 
terminated the agreement in 2017 due to a change in her personal circumstances. She says 
she agreed a repayment  plan with Startline for the outstanding balance as it was too much  to 
pay off in full.
She says she kept to her repayments  and cleared the full balance.  However  she said she 
didnt realise that a repayment plan would affect  her credit file. She would like the default 
that Startline has registered removed.
Startline said it told Mrs Ss representative  that a default would be added  to Mrs Ss credit 
file if the shortfall  of £1769.45 wasnt paid in full which is what happened.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:-
-Mrs S voluntarily  terminated her Hire Purchase  Agreement with Startline which left an 
outstanding amount  of money  to pay.
-Mrs S made arrangements to pay the outstanding sum in a number of instalments. 
This has now been paid off in full.
-Startlines terms and conditions stated customers who voluntarily terminate 
agreements were  liable  for outstanding payments. The terms and conditions  didnt 
state when payments  needed to be made, repayment options  or any consequences  
of agreeing to a repayment plan
-The voluntary  termination form Mrs S signed stated any repair costs due had to be 
paid within 10 days otherwise Startline might pursue legal action. The form didnt 
make reference to any other payments due.
-Startline told us it would have confirmed the default to Mrs S in writing. It couldnt  
evidence this, and Mrs S told us she never received  this. So I couldnt be sure 
Startllne did advise  Mrs S of the default  in writing
-Startline referred in detail to a phone call with Mr S on behalf of Mrs S on 
4 September 2017. The copy of the call was no longer  available  for me to listen  to. 
Startline  said in that call it advised Mr S that if the outstanding amount wasnt  paid 
off in full a default would  be registered  on Mrs Ss credit  file.
-I found Startlines  summary of this phone call to be persuasive  since  Mr S told us that 
a default had been mentioned in that call. Although Mr S said this had only been 
mentioned in passing and he felt Mrs S had no option but to accept  the repayment 
plan option.
Ref: DRN40797352-From  Mr Ss recall of the conversation I found the default had been raised. And even 
if not discussed in detail  that Mr S did have  an opportunity to discuss  and understand 
the implications of agreeing a repayment plan.
-Neither party gave  me any details of the repayment plan agreed so I had no evidence 
from that to say  a  default would be registered or not
-Mrs S might  find it harsh that Startline registered a default having come to an agreed  
repayment plan.  
-Startline advised  of the default  and I didnt think it had done anything wrong in 
applying this.
-As it is important credit files are accurate I didnt feel I could  reasonably ask Startline 
to amend Mrs Ss credit file in the way she would like
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Startline and Mrs S have replied to my provisional decision.
Startline hasnt commented directly on my provisional decision. On that basis, as I felt it 
hadnt done anything wrong,  I have to assume  it was happy with my provisional  decision.
It has clarified an issue Mrs S raised after our investigator issued her view. Mrs S said that 
the original debt owing to Startline showed on her credit file as £7,344  which she felt was 
wrong. I asked our investigator to check this. As a result Startline has confirmed it reported 
the sum of £1,769.45 to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) in September 2017. 
Mrs S has given  us an extract from her credit file that confirms  the figure of £7,344.  As the 
accuracy of the reported data wasnt part of Mrs Ss original complaint I have asked our 
investigator to take this anomaly up with Startline to try to sort this out.
In terms of my provisional decision Mrs S feels that Startlines actions were punitive given 
she arranged, and kept to, a repayment  plan. I did acknowledge that Mrs S might  feel this in 
my provisional decision. And I accept she did keep to the repayment plan. But I havent seen 
any evidence to show that Startline were wrong  to issue  a default notice.
I cant accept Mrs Ss point that neither she nor Mr S were aware that a default would be put 
on her credit  file. I accept Mrs S might not have  received a letter  from Startline since it 
couldnt evidence  it sent one. But I accept  Startline covered this in its phone  call with Mr S 
on 4 September  2017 since in correspondence with us Mr S accepted the issue of a default 
did come  up. Even if the discussion around  the default wasnt  as detailed  as Startline has 
said I think most consumers would want to know more if a default were  mentioned.  So I think  
Mr S must have  at least been aware  that a default was a possibility. And if he was 
concerned about  this he could have asked more and then considered  if there were other 
ways Mrs S could pay off the outstanding  amount.
I also dont think I can accept Mrs Ss point that given  the detrimental  effect  on her credit  file 
that Startline shouldve discussed  this with her not Mr S. As I understand it Mr S was 
Ref: DRN40797353representing Mrs S with her agreement. I dont think its reasonable to expect Startline  to be 
able to discuss some things with a representative  but not others. And of course  Mrs S could 
have chosen to talk to Startline direct herself at any point in their dealings with Startline.
In summary  Mrs S feels firstly that she wasnt adequately informed  that a default would be 
put on her credit file. I accept there  is no evidence of any written communication   although 
that doesnt necessarily  mean that Startline  didnt send a letter about this. But I am 
persuaded that the default was raised in a phone call with Mr S. 
Secondly Mrs S feels Startlines actions were  unfair  as she and Mr S remained in contact 
with the business and kept up to date with all payments  before and after the car was handed 
back. I accept that payments were  made  but I dont think that in itself is sufficient reason for 
Startline not to apply the default.
Unfortunately I dont believe I have been  given any new evidence or information that leads 
me to feel I can reasonably ask Startline to remove the default information  from Mrs Ss 
credit file.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4079735