K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him a Tech,  Travel  
Plus and Home pack in 2017.  Mr R says they were added to his account without his consent.
background
Our adjudicators have  looked into this already and they did not believe that Barclays acted 
incorrectly when these  packs were  added to Mr Rs account. Mr R did not agree with this 
and therefore  this complaint was referred  to me to issue a decision.
This decision only relates to the packs added to Mr Rs account  in 2017.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should highlight  that these packs were not sold to Mr R. What actually happened  
was that Mr R had held a Premier Life account for a number of years and in 2017 Barclays 
decided to change  the products it offered and withdrew the Premier  Life account and 
replaced it with various packs.
Barclays is entitled to change the types of accounts  it offers  its customers  and to withdraw 
certain accounts. However,  when taking these actions Barclays needs to notify its customers  
and explain  the changes clearly. 
Barclays has provided copies of two letters it sent to Mr R  one before it migrated his 
account, and one to confirm it had been migrated. I note that the letters are personally 
addressed to Mr R at his current address. The first letter, sent in October 2016, gave Mr R 
information on the upcoming changes  that would be happening on his account. The second  
page of the letter gave  several options, including  opting out of the migration and choosing  a 
fee-free account.  It gave Mr R the option  of calling to make  this change, or visiting  a 
Barclays branch to do so. The second  letter was sent in January 2017. It confirmed that Mr 
Rs account had been changed. And again on the second page it highlighted that Mr R could 
remove these packs if he wished to do so
So I think that Barclays did enough  to highlight that Mr Rs account was changing from a 
Premier Life account to a fee free Premier account  with a Tech, Travel Plus and Home  
packs. And that it highlighted to Mr R that he could  opt out of having these packs  if he 
wished to do so. I cant  see that he contacted Barclays to either opt out of the change, or 
query it. So I cant say that Barclays did anything wrong in relation to the changes that 
happened on the account or that it needs to refund the fees Mr R paid for the packs  since 
they were added to his account.
I understand that this will be disappointing  to Mr R as he clearly feels strongly about this 
complaint. But considering everything, I dont think that Barclays  treated Mr R unfairly when 
it migrated his account from a Premier Life account to an account with a Tech,  Travel  Plus 
and Home pack.
Ref: DRN42452972my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2020
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4245297