K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that she lost money when making  a transfer of money online from her 
account with Barclays Bank UK PLC to a sterling account she has with a bank in a European 
country.
background
Mrs A says she went online  on 18 October 2018 and used Barclays  international payments 
screens to transfer  £11,200 from her Barclays account to her account  abroad.  She says she 
was shocked to discover only £9,444  had been credited to her foreign account because  the 
money had been  credited to it in Euros.  Mrs A says she didnt select to send the money in 
Euros and that wasnt even an option  when  she was doing the transaction. It must be 
Barclays fault. She was guided  through the transaction by Barclays  agent  on the phone.  
The relevant  screens  had also changed  the next day and were  easier  and more  obvious to 
use. She wants compensating for her loss of £1,255.78.
Barclays said in its final response that the payment was made by Mrs A and its records  show  
the arrow  to change  the currency from the default of Euros to Sterling was not selected. So 
the payment was sent in Euros. There are also further steps along the way that prompted 
her to confirm she was happy with the payment she was making. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
Barclays says there  werent  any changes  to its international  payments section in 
October 2018. And it wouldve  carefully  recorded  any change  affecting currency 
selection as its so significant  a step.  Hes persuaded  Barclays didnt change its 
online screens in October 2018. And the selection of Euros  wasnt down to any 
system change or redesign on Barclays part.
Barclays has shown it has reasonable safeguards in place to ensure a transfer is 
made in the currency  a customer  chooses.  After a currency  is chosen the customer  is 
asked to confirm  acceptance  of the exchange  rate offered at the time. If this isnt 
accepted within  90 seconds the transaction is abandoned. If its accepted  the 
customer is asked to reconfirm the details  of the transfer and only then is the money  
transferred.
Mrs A was on the phone to Barclays delayed payments team at the time of this 
transfer. The agent stayed on the line while Mrs A made the transfer. Theres silence 
for some time until Mrs A confirms she has made the transfer. During  that time Mrs A 
doesnt ask for help and the agent  doesnt give it. He cant  agree Mrs A was guided  
in making the transfer by Barclays agent.
Mrs A has sent in information  from a third party that analyses website performance 
by collecting status reports  including from social media. The report Mrs A relies  on 
says Barclays had problems with its website on 18 October 2018 from 12.52. But this 
was after Mrs A made her transfer.  And the issues reported  by the third party didnt 
relate to international money transfers.  Barclays also says its system was working 
correctly at the relevant time for transfers  to the country Mrs A sent the money  to. 
There were no issues  with transfers being  made in the wrong currency.  
He cant reasonably conclude that Barclays was at fault for what  happened.  
Ref: DRN43301452Mrs A remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review. She says shes sure she 
did everything correctly  during the transfer.  Shes  lost money  because  of an error in 
Barclays system.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
I understand Mrs As frustration at whats happened. But taking  everything  into account I 
dont think I can reasonably conclude Barclays was at fault or has done anything wrong.
I havent seen  anything that persuades me that there  was an error  or problem with Barclays 
online service at the time Mrs A made this transfer.  Its also said it didnt make  any changes 
to its international  payments service in October 2018.
It appears that the transfer was carried out entirely by Mrs A. And although  she was on the 
phone to a Barclays  agent while she made the transfer the agent didnt take any part in the 
actual transfer  process. That was solely  carried out by Mrs A without reference to or help 
from the agent.
That transfer process clearly has a default  option  for payment in Euros and Barclays  says 
this wasnt changed  to Sterling by Mrs A. There are also a number of further steps which  
require the transfer details  to be checked  and approved by the customer failing  which the 
transfer would be abandoned or not go thorough. In this case Mrs A mustve gone through 
them as the transfer was successfully made,  as was confirmed to the agent.
Taking everything into account  I dont think,  on balance, that its been shown that the fact the 
transfer was made in Euros  rather than Sterling was the fault of Barclays or due to any error 
in its system or on its part. 
As a result I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require  Barclays  to pay Mrs A £1,255.78, or 
any, compensation for the loss she says shes incurred due to the various currency  
conversions that took place.
Overall, although I recognise  Mrs As strength of feeling and frustration, I dont  see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Ref: DRN43301453Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4330145