K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Go Car Credit 
Limited (GCC) has been of unsatisfactory quality.
background 
Mr S took receipt of a used car in August 2018.  He financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with GCC. At the point of supply the car was about  six years old and 
had already completed 43,687 miles.
Mr S says hes had problems with the car and that GCC should  allow  him to reject it. Job 
sheets from garages detail the following  work that has been completed:
October 2018 work on the reverse lights and wheel tracking;
November 2018 Engine Management Light (EML) illuminated and air mass  sensor  
needed replacing.
Mr S says the car has also been  repaired on three further occasions  but the dealership 
dispute this. They say that they only completed work on the car in October  and that they 
reached an agreement  with Mr S to allow him to take his car to a different garage for repair 
to the air mass filter. The agreement was reached on the basis that any ensuing  issues 
would be resolved by Mr S at his expense. 
In November Mr S asked GCC to allow him to reject  the car. He said a further issue  had 
developed with the airbag. But GCC refused to allow him to reject  the car as they said the 
agreement was he would pay for any subsequent issues.
Mr S therefore referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided his opinion. 
He thought the relevant  legislation  allowed  GCC an opportunity  to repair  the initial faults  
reported in October  and he thought  it was clear that Mr S had reached  an agreement  with 
GCC that if they paid for repairs to the air mass filter he would pay for subsequent repairs. 
So he didnt think it would be fair to suggest  they now allow  Mr S to reject the car. 
But Mr S disagreed and he therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr S so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN49671822Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then GCC, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr S. The car here 
was around six years  old and had travelled  about  43,000 miles so I think  a reasonable 
person would not expect it to be completely fault free.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask GCC to put this right. 
I think theres evidence that this car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the beginning.  I say that 
because I can see repairs were carried out to the reversing  light and wheel balancing.
Relevant legislation allows  the business  an opportunity  to repair  any issues  that were 
present or developing at the point  of supply. 
The next reported problem was in November. Im persuaded that at that point an agreement  
was reached to allow Mr S to have the air mass sensor repaired at a third party garage.  I 
think the dealership  were  understandably  reluctant  to allow this work to be completed 
elsewhere as they were  worried Mr S would hold them  responsible if things went wrong. I 
think, on the evidence I have, that a deal was most  likely reached that the repair  could be 
completed elsewhere but that the dealership  would  not be responsible for any further  
repairs. 
In those circumstances I dont think it would be reasonable to hold GCC responsible and ask 
them to take any further action. However,  I can see that they have been prepared  to 
diagnose the current problem and repair it if necessary  and I think, in the circumstances, this 
is sufficient.
Ref: DRN49671823my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Go Car Credit 
Limited to diagnose  and if necessary  repair the issue with the air bag warning light that has 
now arisen.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4967182