K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2000 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr and Mrs H say The Co-operative Bank  Plc trading as Britannia mis-
sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
The PPI covered Mr H only so I have mainly  considered his circumstances at the time it was 
sold.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
The Co-operative had to make Mr and Mrs H aware  that the PPI was optional and gain their 
consent before adding  it to their mortgage.  Mr and Mrs H have told us that they were told 
they had to take the PPI. I cant be certain  what was said at the time the PPI was sold but 
The Co-operative has sent us a copy of the paperwork  available  at the time. Mr H signed an 
application form separate from the mortgage to take the policy,  and the form doesnt say 
Mr H had to take it out. So from the information available I think  The Co-operative  made  it 
clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and that Mr H chose to take it out  
although I can understand why they may not remember this.
Form the information available  I dont think The Co-operative  recommended the PPI to Mr H 
so it didnt have  to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make  sure Mr H got the 
information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information The Co-operative gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But Mr H chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means he 
had available  which included  sick pay and other  insurances. But the PPI would have paid out 
in addition to Mr Hs sick pay, and for longer than he would have received full pay. The PPI 
would also have paid out in circumstances  that his other insurances wouldnt have. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Hs circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for Mr and Mrs H if something went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means The Co-operative doesnt  have  to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs H.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H have said, but these points dont  change  my 
decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN45635412Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4563541