K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains about the mortgage advice he received  from Countrywide  Principal Services  
Limited. He asks that it refunds  its fee.
background
Mr E had looked at his preferred lenders mortgages online and seen that he needed a 20% 
deposit. He only had a 10% deposit.  Mr E says he was told by Countrywide  that it would be 
able to negotiate a mortgage  with a 10% deposit.  He says he was also told by Countrywide  
that it wouldnt make any difference if he changed  jobs during the application.
On this basis, Mr E paid Countrywides fee of £249  and it made an application  on his behalf.  
The lender  didnt offer Mr E the mortgage he wanted. 
 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said the lender 
did offer mortgages  with a 10% deposit. But it didnt offer this to Mr E as the property he 
wanted to buy was a new build and the warranty offered by the builder  didnt meet the 
lenders criteria. The adjudicator said Countrywide wouldnt have known this. The adjudicator 
said Countrywide was entitled to its fee, which was for the work done  in preparing  the 
application. 
Mr E didnt agree and so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Countrywides fee agreement says an initial fee of £249 is payable  at mortgage application 
and is non-refundable. Mr E agreed  to this when  he signed the fee agreement.
Mr E says hed looked at his preferred lenders mortgages  online and seen that he needed  a 
20% deposit. He says he was told by Countrywide  that it would be able to negotiate a 
mortgage with a 10% deposit. On this basis, he paid Countrywides initial  fee in June  2018.
Countrywide says Mr Es preferred lender does offer mortgages with a 10% deposit. It says 
the lender didnt offer this to Mr E as the warranty offered  in relation to the new build  
property Mr E wanted to buy didnt  meet  its criteria.  I havent seen anything to suggest 
Countrywide knew the lender wouldnt offer Mr E the mortgage he wanted  before it made the 
application or before Mr E paid its fee. 
Countrywide says it then looked at applying to other lenders and asked  Mr E for up to date 
payslips and bank  statements.  It says at this point  it found out Mr E had changed jobs. 
I understand Mr Es frustration. But mortgage  applications are subject  to lenders checks  and 
underwriting decisions.  I havent seen evidence that Countrywide misled  Mr E about  this. 
Ref: DRN44307642Countrywide did the work required  to make a mortgage application on Mr Es behalf. Mr E 
agreed to pay a fee for this. In the circumstances,  I dont  think its fair and reasonable to 
require Countrywide  to refund its fee.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4430764