K821x#15complaint
Miss S is unhappy with the proposed settlement of her alternative accommodation costs  by 
AXA Insurance UK Plc following a claim for serious  water damage to her property under her 
home insurance.
background
Miss S made a claim to AXA in November  2015,  following her discovery of dampness in her 
property. Further investigations showed  that the damage was caused by a leaking underfloor 
pipe, and that it was much  more serious  than at first thought. Miss S instructed loss 
assessors, T, to act for her. She was moved  to alternative accommodation. Strip out of the 
flooring and fixtures was carried out and this was followed by a long period  of drying out 
which took around seven months. Miss S wanted  to use her own contractor and supplied 
through T two quotes  for the work in November 2016. A cash settlement was agreed in 
July 2017. T advised  that the floor screed needed to be replaced and AXA agreed to this 
subject to the work being done  and an invoice being  presented
The contractors initially estimated that the works would  be completed by the end of 
February 2018. They revised that date, because  of extra drying needed of the new screed, 
which was an increased depth than that estimated for, until 20 April. However AXA queried  
this as only a further six days was said to be necessary. It said it would pay for an extra 
6 days alternative accommodation.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that, as it hadnt been  shown  that the 
contractors were at fault, AXA should pay for the alternative accommodation until the works 
were completed.
By August 2018 the screed had still not dried  out. AXA appointed an engineer to consider 
the reason why the drying had taken so long.  That engineer suggested several  reasons as to 
why this was so, which pointed to the contractor not having done  the drying properly. AXA 
said it would  pay for a further two months  alternative  accommodation, which took it up until 
the end of April.  This was to account  for the contractor not estimating the time properly 
rather than any extra drying time as it didnt think it was responsible for that.
Our investigator thought that proposal was reasonable.  T responded with the contractors 
comments and said that the engineer wasnt independent nor qualified in the area of drying 
out properties. I understand that the screed is now dry, with Miss S expected to be able to 
move back  in by the end of January.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that as the original drying out took seven  months, it 
would be fair to say that the drying  out of the screed should also take seven  months. 
Allowing for a further two months to complete the work, I said that this means Allianz should 
pay for a further four months alternative  accommodation, on top of the extra two months it 
had already offered.
In response AXA explained that in fact it took four and a half, not seven months, to dry out 
the property. In that case I advised  the parties that I had changed  my view, and that AXA 
should now pay for an extra one and a half, rather than four months alternative 
accommodation.
AXA accepted my revised view
Ref: DRN41201402Miss S didnt accept  my view, and felt that twelve months reimbursement of alternative 
accommodation costs  would be fair.
my provisional findings
As set out in my provisional  decision  I made  the following provisional findings:
liability for the contractor
When a consumer appoints their own contractor and accepts a cash payment we would 
normally say that the insurers liability ends at that point. But I think the position is more  
complicated than that here. AXA agreed  a cash settlement for the repairs/reinstatement. For 
the floor screed  it agreed it would make  a payment when  it had been  laid, and on receipt  of 
the contractors  invoice. I dont think Miss S was bound by her contractors initial estimate for 
the laying  and drying out of the floor screed. And in fairness AXA hasnt argued  that.
But I dont think AXA is liable for the contractors  work. The contractor was clearly  instructed 
by or on behalf  of Miss S, there is no indication that AXA had any control over the way that 
repair was carried out.
drying out
The floor screed was laid at the end of November  2017. It was initially  estimated that it would 
take around three months  to dry out. It appears that it has taken the best part of a year to do 
so. With a further two months until estimated completion that would suggest a further  nine 
months alternative accommodation.
I dont really know why the floor screed took so long to dry out. The engineer  suggested that:
Air movers should have been considered.
He would have  expected a 90 day drying period in accordance with industry norms.
The method  of recording moisture may not have been accurate.
Doors and windows  were left open while the contractor was on site, but were  closed  
up when the contractor was off site.
A tented  drying  scheme could  have been initiated.
Consideration could have been given at the outset to installing a 25mm insulation 
board to help with insulation amd reducing  the thickness of the screed.
The contractors have  disputed that they were at fault in any way. Though T has pointed out 
that if the initial drying out hadnt  taken so long, the floor screed could have  been  laid in the 
summer.
I dont think, given that it had no control  over the process, AXA is responsible  for proving  that 
the contractors were at fault. It is for Miss S to show that the excessive  drying time was part 
of the normal  process so AXA should  be paying  for her accommodation during that time.  At 
present I only have AXAs engineer's report which has suggested some reasons  why the 
drying took so long and the contractors  denial  that they were at fault.
But it is evident that the property is problematic.  I understand that it wasnt  of normal  
construction, being timber framed. I dont  know if that affected the drying. But it does appear 
Ref: DRN41201403that the drying out after the initial claim took about  seven  months  when I would have 
expected it to take about four to six weeks.
So I think in fairness  to Miss S I should  allow  for the drying out of the screed  also to take 
seven months. This brings the drying time up until the end of June. With a further two 
months to complete  the work this means in my view that AXA should pay for a further four 
months alternative accommodation  on top of the extra two months offered to bring the 
payments up until the end of August. It should  add interest to those payments as I shall set 
out below. I understand that Miss S may have had to take out a loan to pay for this  if this is 
the case AXA should pay interest  at the rate she has incurred, subject to her providing  
evidence of this.
As I set out above, after considering representations from AXA,  I thought that AXA should  
pay for a further one and a half months alternative  accommodation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered both parties representations.  I understand that Miss S would like to have 
more of her accommodation paid for, but from the evidence Ive seen, I cant justify that. 
Apart from the change in the number of months alternative accommodation for which AXA 
should pay, I havent changed my view.  My provisional findings  should therefore be regarded 
as final, and they now form part of this final decision.
AXA should  pay for a further one and a half months alternative accommodation, on top of 
the two months  it has already offered.
 my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
pay to Miss S the cost of three and a half months  further alternative accommodation 
Including the two months previously offered)..
add simple interest*  to the payments  at the rate of interest that Miss S has incurred 
on any loan she may have taken out to pay this. This is subject  to her providing 
evidence of any such loan. Interest should be paid from the respective dates Miss S 
made payments  until the date it pays her.
alternatively if Miss S doesnt provide such evidence  the rate of interest* shall be 8% 
per year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Ref: DRN41201404Ray Lawley
ombudsman
*If AXA Insurance  UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Miss S how much its taken off. It should  also give Miss S a certificate showing this if she 
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4120140