K820x#14complaint
Ms F has complained about the late payment  markers added to her credit file due to an 
outstanding balance with Santander  UK Plc.
background
Santander received  a switch request from another bank on Ms Fs request on 22 September  
2017. Santander sent Ms F a letter  on 25 September confirming this and explaining that if 
the account was overdrawn  it wouldnt be able to close  the account  until the balance was 
repaid.
On 1 October,  Ms F withdrew all the remaining funds from her Santander account.
On 2 October,  the account  was due to close but Ms F withdrew the remaining funds, 
continued spending on the card and there were direct debits coming out of the account with 
no funds to pay these.  And so the account couldnt  be closed.
On 12 October, Ms Fs partner Mr R called Santander  it appears there had already been 
contact either on this day or prior to this. Mr R was unhappy as Santander said it hadnt  
made a mistake in closing  the account.
On 16 October, Santander sent Ms F a letter explained the switch  had been completed but 
the balance needed to be repaid before it could close.  This explained  that the repayment 
couldnt be made by electronic transfer  as this would re-direct  to the new account.
On 27 October, as Santander didnt receive  a response it sent another  letter, this also 
explained the consequences of repayment  not being  made and that it may effect Ms Fs 
credit report.  
On 4 December,  Ms F made a call to Santander  to complain that a full switch  hadnt been 
requested and she wanted  to reopen the account. Santander said it would make a call back.
On 9 December,  Santander  sent a letter explaining the money  needed to be repaid, the 
overdraft facility would be removed and the collections team would arrange a payment plan.
On 10 January Ms F called to complain  that shed not received her call back.
On 11 January, Santander  sent Ms F a letter to apologise for the missed call back and not 
allowing her to speak  to the complaints  team. If sent her £100  for its error. But it explained  
that it hadnt done anything wrong  in the way it had handled  the switch.
On 23 January, Santander  sent a standard collection  letter in error, this letter  said that the 
payment could be made by card.
On 26 January, Mr R called up to make  a payment by card but it was soon realised this 
couldnt be done as the account was a switch account. A complaint was made that they were 
told a card payment  could  be taken. And that Santander hadnt told them  the account was 
overdrawn, whilst giving  inconsistent time periods for when the payment needed to be made,  
once telling them 60 days. Also Mr R was unhappy  with potential impact  on Ms Fs credit file.
Ref: DRN45666032On 5 February, Santander sent Ms F a letter explaining a stop had been  applied to the card 
due to the account balance still remaining. And the letter also explained that it shared credit 
information with credit agencies and this could have an adverse effect on Ms Fs ability  to 
get credit  in the future.
Santander responded in full to Ms Fs complaint on 15 February  and explained that as the 
switch was a full request it had been  processed as such. And that Ms F had been told this in 
letters, and to leave  enough money in the account  to cover any remaining outgoings. And 
when the account was left overdrawn, repayment letters were sent. So the information 
recorded with the credit agencies was correct and wouldnt be changed. However, 
Santander apologised for sending a standard repayment letter which  included  the option to 
make repayment via a card. Santander  credited  Ms Fs savings account  with £50 to 
apologise for this.
Ms F then made the outstanding payment and the account was settled in February.  
However, in October, Ms F then raised a complaint. Despite  this being outside of timescales 
we would usually  consider  complaints within; Santander agreed that the complaint could be 
considered by us as Ms F said shed  suffered  family bereavements in this time.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and recommended that it shouldnt be upheld. The 
investigator explained that she didnt  think Santander had made a mistake  in the way it had 
dealt with the switch. It had requested  repayment of the unpaid  balance and the repayment 
wasnt made for some time, so the information  it recorded with the credit agencies was 
factually correct. The investigator recognised Santander had made errors in its customer 
service but she said the £150 already paid was a fair amount in the circumstances.
Mr R on behalf of Ms F said in response  that they disagreed with the investigator. He said all 
Ms F had wanted to do is keep the account  open. And it was the banks  action that made the 
account overdrawn. He also said that the investigator agreed that Santander  had made 
mistakes and this had led to confusion and it was unfair that Ms F was being  punished 
because of this. He also said she was suffering significant stress over the late payment 
markers that Santander had unfairly  added.
The investigator explained to Mr R that it was Ms F that had made the payments that had 
made the account go overdrawn. Santander  had explained to Ms F that the account  couldnt 
be re-opened and that the two administrative errors  didnt account for Ms F taking months to 
pay off the remaining balance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive come to the same  conclusion as the investigator and broadly for 
the same  reasons. I know  Mr R and Ms F will be disappointed with this but Ill explain why 
Ive reached this conclusion.
The evidence shows that Ms Fs new bank  requested a full switch from her Santander 
account. So first and foremost I dont think Santander made a mistake  here in carrying out 
that instruction.
Ref: DRN45666033Santander sent Ms F clear instructions that the account would need to be closed once the 
switch had taken  place. And if the account  was overdrawn any overdrawn amount would 
need to be repaid as soon as possible so that the account could be closed. 
Santanders records show that a day before the account  was to be closed, Ms F withdrew all 
the remaining  funds  whilst  continuing  to spend on the account  using her debit card.  This 
alongside the fact that direct debits were  due on the same day meant that the account  was 
overdrawn and therefore couldnt be closed.
Mr R has argued  on behalf of Ms F that it was Santander that caused the account to be 
overdrawn. But this is not the case.  It was payments  authorised  by Ms F that caused the 
account to be overdrawn. So I cant say that Santander has done anything  wrong  here.
I dont know why Ms F withdrew all the money  from the account  and continued  to spend on 
the account after being told it would  be closed. But I cant hold Santander  responsible for 
this. It might  be that Ms F hadnt fully understood how the switch  would work - but she had 
requested it via her new bank and Santander  followed these instructions as it was required 
to do. 
If Ms F didnt understand that shed requested a full switch she did have the opportunity to 
ask Santander.  Santander sent a letter prior to the switch which said that if Ms F hadnt 
requested a full switch  she should  contact it immediately. But I cant  see that Ms F did 
contact Santander,  so I think she knew that a full switch was being carried out.
Because the account was overdrawn for over four months, Santander  recorded  the late 
payment markers  with the credit  agencies. Ms F thinks Santander has been unfair  in adding 
the late payment  markers. She says she wanted  the account to remain  open.
But even if Ms F had misunderstood  how the switch process worked, Santander sent letters 
in October explaining that the account  needed  to be repaid and how to do this. A number of 
letters requesting  payment  were sent by Santander.  In these letters  it explained the 
consequences of not making the repayments. If Ms F had made  the repayment when 
requested the late payment markers wouldnt have been occurred. But it wasnt until 
February, over four months  later that Ms F made the repayment.  
Santander had explained from the start that the account would need to be closed. When  a 
complaint was raised with Santander,  again  it explained the account had to be closed. But 
Ms F still didnt make the repayment for some time. So I cant  hold Santander responsible for 
Ms Fs delay in making  repayment, as it was made  clear to Ms F the account  had to be 
repaid and the account couldnt be re-opened.
Mr R has also argued that Santander  caused  a lot of confusion with its errors and therefore 
Ms F shouldnt be held responsible for its mistakes.  The errors  that Santander made were 
not making a call-back it had promised. And incorrectly  sending a letter saying payment 
could be made by card when it couldnt. 
Santander shouldve  made the call back when  it said it would. But its apologised for this and 
paid Ms F £100 for the poor customer service.  But I dont think it can reasonably  be argued 
that the missed  call-back caused Ms F to not make the repayment. The missed  call-back  
happened approximately two months after the switch had occurred. And at this point 
Santander had already  sent at least three letters requesting the balance to be repaid and 
confirmed that the account couldnt remain open.
Ref: DRN45666034After it responded  to Ms F about  the missed  call-back Santander again confirmed the 
account couldnt remain open  and that the repayment needed to be made.  Ms F didnt make 
the repayment until over a month  after this letter was sent.  So I dont think  the delay in 
speaking to Ms F had any real impact on her making the repayments. Santander had told 
her since  October that it was a full switch, the account would need to be closed and any 
remaining balance would need  to be repaid. The letters sent by Santander in my view made 
it clear that the repayments needed to be made  as soon as possible.
The other error Santander made  was it sent a standard collection letter  which stated 
repayment could  be made by debit card. As the account was a switch account  this wasnt  
possible. I can understand  this was frustrating for Ms F especially as Mr R attempted to 
make the payment this way when speaking  to Santander. But this mistake  was only present  
in one letter  and by this point Santander had already sent three letters  explaining that 
payment couldnt  be made in this way. So I think Ms F wouldve known how to make the 
repayment before this error. 
Furthermore this happened  in January and repayment letters with the correct information 
had been sent since October. So I dont think  it can be said this was the reason the 
repayments werent made and I dont think it means  that Santander was wrong  to add the 
late payment markers.
Looking at the errors Santander made, I think the compensation  it has already paid is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. I dont think  its errors can be seen to have had any 
real effect  on Ms Fs situation with regards  to the switch or being  able to make the 
repayments.
In conclusion, a full switch was requested, Santander carried  out these instructions correctly 
and provided Ms F with the relevant information. Through Ms Fs actions the account 
became overdrawn.  Santander requested the repayment of the arrears and it took Ms F over 
four months to make  this payment. And so I think the late payment information  that 
Santander recorded was factually correct.  And I dont think its responsible  for Ms Fs 
account being overdrawn nor is it responsible for the time taken  to pay this back.
So therefore  my decision  is that I do not uphold this complaint.  And I dont think  Santander  
has to do anything more  to put things  right.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I do not uphold Ms Fs complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019
Ref: DRN45666035Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4566603