K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that the insurer Advantage Insurance Company Limited provided a 
poor service and gave  him incorrect information about repairs  to his car. Mr A reported  an 
incident to Advantage under his car insurance  policy. 
All references to Advantage in my decision include its agents.
background
Mr A was unfortunately  involved in an incident  in April 2019. He told his insurer, Advantage 
that another  driver had hit the rear of his car.
Mr A made a number  of complaints  to Advantage about the service he received. The other 
drivers insurer  offered  to deal with the repairs to Mr As car and provide him with a hire car. 
So he accepted their offer two working  days after the incident  happened. 
Advantage paid Mr A £60 compensation for the poor service hed received from it when he 
registered his claim.  
In May 2019  Mr A contacted Advantage. He said the other drivers insurer hadnt agreed  to 
repair all of the incident related damage. Mr A said Advantage told him it would  deal with all 
of the repairs  subject to conditions   but then told him it wouldnt. Mr A was very unhappy  
about this and raised a further  complaint. 
Advantage apologised to Mr A. It accepted that Mr A had been on the phone for long periods 
of time, been passed around  departments and been given incorrect information  on multiple 
occasions. It agreed it had wrongly advised  Mr A that Advantage would take on the repairs. 
By now, the other  drivers  insurer had started  repairs to Mr As car. For the frustration and 
inconvenience caused, Advantage paid Mr A a further £100  compensation. 
Mr A remained unhappy  and asked us to look at his complaint.  He wanted the scratch  
damage to the side of his car repaired. He said this would bring his car back  to the condition  
it was in before the incident. 
Our investigator thought it was clear  Advantage had caused some delay and provided poor 
service. But he thought it had fairly compensated Mr A for this. He explained that irrespective 
of which  business  had repaired Mr As car, he felt the outcome would have been the same.  
This was because the circumstances  of the incident meant Advantage wouldnt have 
repaired any scratch damage  to the side of his car  as the collision was to the rear. 
Mr A didnt agree. He asked the investigator to listen to recordings of calls he had with 
Advantage. He said Advantage said it would  repair  the scratch damage as it agreed it was 
incident related.  
Our investigator said it wasnt necessary for him to listen  to call recordings as hed reviewed  
call notes provided by Advantage.  And even  if Advantage had told Mr A that it would repair  
the scratch damage, this was incorrect information.  In his view, he thought Advantage  had 
fairly compensated Mr A for providing  him with incorrect  information.  And he remained of the 
view that the outcome  would therefore have  been the same for Mr A. 
Ref: DRN48070912Mr A didnt agree. He said if Advantage hadnt caused delay and multiple errors at the start, 
he wouldnt  have taken  up the other  drivers insurers offer to deal with the claim. So Mr A 
feels he wouldnt be in the position hes in now. Mr A said Advantage agreed that the 
additional damage was incident  related.  Mr A believes the investigators  view is biased. So 
the case has been passed  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Mr A reported the incident to Advantages out of hours service on Friday 12 April 2019. He 
called again on Sunday 14 April 2019 and Monday 15 April 2019. I can see that Mr A had to 
repeat the details  about his claim and clearly spent some time on the phone  during this 
period and over the next few days. Mr A wanted a replacement car for work.
In April 2019 Advantage apologised  to Mr A for the poor service  hed received and paid him 
£60 compensation.  I think this was fair. Its reasonable  to expect  some  inconvenience when 
dealing with a claim.  But I think Mr A was put to additional time as a result  of Advantages 
failings and this clearly caused frustration.  Advantages involvement in the repairs  and hire 
car for Mr A ended on 17 April 2019 as Mr A agreed  for the other drivers insurer  to deal with 
his claim.
In May 2019  Mr A contacted Advantage as he said the other drivers insurer  said the scratch  
damage to the side of his car wasnt caused  by the incident. He wanted  Advantage to deal 
with the claim. He said at this point the other  drivers  insurer  hadnt begun  repairs.  
In reply to Mr As complaint on 15 May 2019,  Advantage wrote:
I am sorry as in previous  calls we had provided  you with incorrect  information about 
your excess  being payable when this isn't applicable  as (other  drivers insurer name  
inserted here) have accepted liability, we also incorrectly explained that we would 
instruct (Advantages non fault service company inserted  here) to review  and take on 
the file which  is also wrong and as the repairs have already  started and now 
completed then we are unable to assist with the repairs which  is being taken up with 
(other drivers  insurer) and their complaints  team.
I think it will help here to explain  the claims process  generally followed by insurers.  When  a 
customer makes  a claim, the insurer will ask for details of how the incident happened. 
However, in nearly  all cases,  an engineer  will assess the damage to the car and report to the 
insurer what repairs are incident related. Its the engineers report  as a suitably qualified  
expert - that an insurer relies on when considering a claim for incident related  repairs.  
Based on what Mr A told Advantage, the other  drivers insurer   after an engineer assessed 
Mr As car  decided that the scratch  damage to the side of Mr As car wasnt  incident 
related. Weve explained that this isnt a complaint Advantage can deal with. 
Ref: DRN48070913The claim notes provided by Advantage dont show that it agreed to include repairs to the 
side of Mr As car. But in any event,  even if Advantage had told Mr A that the scratch  
damage would be repaired, I think this isnt something the agent could have agreed at this 
stage  even if Advantage  dealt with the repairs. So as the investigator explained, the error 
Advantage might be responsible for is providing Mr A with incorrect information. 
But even if this was the case  and call recordings proved this  I think its very likely  that the 
outcome would have  been the same  for Mr A. This is because  Advantage would have 
instructed an independent engineer to assess  Mr As car and decide what repairs  were 
incident related   just as the other  drivers insurer did. And Mr A would  have had the right to 
dispute that decision with Advantage  which  he can do with the other drivers insurer. For 
these reasons, I agree with the investigator  that it isnt necessary  for us to obtain  call 
recordings to verify  what Mr A has told us in order to reach  a fair and reasonable decision.
Mr A said that he accepted an offer made  by the other drivers insurer to deal with the claim 
and provide him with a hire car  because  of the delay and errors Advantage caused  in 
registering his claim.
I cant safely conclude that  if Advantage had dealt with Mr As claim better from the Friday 
to the Tuesday  when the other  drivers insurer called Mr A  that Mr A wouldnt be in the 
position hes in now. Clearly Advantages service was poor and caused  Mr A inconvenience  
and frustration over and above  what  would  ordinarily  be expected when having  to deal with a 
claim. But I think Advantage has fairly  compensated Mr A for the inconvenience its failings 
caused him. 
I understand Mr A will be disappointed with my decision. But overall I think  Advantage has 
done enough to put things right. And this means  I dont think it needs to do any more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.  
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4807091