K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003 with a 
loan. Ms B says PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) miss-sold the PPI policy to her. Ms B paid 
a monthly premium for the PPI.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Bs case.
Where there isnt much evidence (as is the case here) or theres contradictory evidence  for 
me to consider, I need  to make my decision based  on a balance of probabilities  that is to 
say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both sides have said,  and make  a decision 
based on what I think most likely happened. 
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill confine my comments  to what  I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  what  I think  is the right 
outcome in the wider context. In this case I have focused solely  on whether the PPI was 
miss-sold.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt miss-sold because:
Neither Ms B nor PSA have been  able to provide the actual documentation from the 
time of the sale. As these events  occurred over 16 years  ago thats  maybe not 
surprising. But I think PSA made it clear that Ms B didnt have to take out the PPI and 
she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this. I 
say this because  Ive seen a sample  application  form which PSA says came from 
around the time of the sale.  I think  its possible  that this would have been similar to 
the form that would  have been  used at the time of the sale.  The PPI is described as 
Optional and to get it Ms B would have had to select it and complete  an application 
for it that was separate to the application  for the loan. There is nothing in writing on 
the application form that should  have suggested to Ms B that she would get the credit 
if she took out the cover.  So it seems  most  likely that Ms B did choose it and did so 
knowing she had a choice  to do so. 
PSA didnt recommend the PPI to Ms B so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Ms B got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information PSA gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy  would cost.  But she chose 
to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. Based on what  Ive 
seen of her circumstances at the time it seems she was eligible for the policy  and it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI 
cover. And whilst Ms B told us she had some sick pay at the time, this policy could 
have paid out in addition  to any sick pay Ms B may have had, and would,  most  likely, 
have paid out for longer than her employer would have paid her at her full rate of pay 
in the event that Ms B was too unwell  to work.  So I think  the policy would  have been  
Ref: DRN41425922useful to her if something went  wrong. So I dont think better information about the 
PPI and its cost would have put her off taking  out the cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Ms Bs complaint and I make no award  
against PSA Finance UK Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B either to 
accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing,  before  3 November 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4142592