K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1997. Mr C says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill set out the reasons for my complaint below.
Mr C says that the PPI wasnt  optional  and that he had to take it out. But I think  its likely 
Barclays made it clear that Mr C didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  
Ill explain  why. 
Mr C took out his card via a pre-approved mail shot in 1997  he didnt take PPI at this time 
but the card was opened in July. The PPI was sold to Mr C during  a phone call in 
September. I dont  know what  was said during  the call, and theres no script available, but as 
Mr C already had his card, and it was active,  I think he wouldve known  that he didnt have to 
take the PPI in order to get the card. 
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he seems to have had a need  for the cover  and while he had a medical condition,  
this was not a serious illness and caused  him no issues,  and he wasnt  affected  by any of 
the other exclusions or limits on the policy.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for him if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said - but these  points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4735524