K820x#14Complaint
Mr A is unhappy HSBC UK Bank  Plc wont refund him for several online transactions  that 
took place on his account. 
Background
Mr A has a credit card with HSBC, but the disputed spending took place on Mrs As card 
who is an authorised  additional card holder. Mrs A has said she didnt make or authorise six 
transactions. The transactions were made online to several different retailers  between  24 
and 26 September  2018. The retailers include a well-known DIY store  and a well-known 
supermarket. Mr and Mrs A live together with their young children and have said they had no 
visitors staying with them during the period in question. 
Mr A has mentioned Mrs A used the card to book a holiday with a well-known airline a 
couple of months  before  the disputed transactions and there was a breach of security which 
couldve resulted  in the card being compromised. Mrs A also mentioned she went  to a 
shopping centre on 27 September 2017 and used their pubic WiFi.  
Mr A notice the transactions when he checked  his online banking on 28 September  2018 
and called HSBC  to report it. Mrs A was still in possession of the card. Mr A has reported the 
incident to Action Fraud. 
HSBC didnt uphold  Mr As fraud claim as it was satisfied the transactions  were made on the 
same device (a mobile phone) that Mrs A had used  previously  to make genuine purchases.  
Mrs A couldnt explain  how someone else couldve got access  to her phone, so HSBC  
concluded she authorised the transactions. 
Mr A has explained that theyve contacted  some  of the retailers  concerned. The DIY store  
told them  the purchase mustve been  made  in store  in Leeds, as this is what  it showed the 
store as on the statement. The grocery store said it was an order  for delivery and wouldve 
been somewhere in the vicinity of the store identified on the statement. Mr A also explained 
that Mrs A does have  the card details stored on her phone on a payment application, but this 
can only be accessed via her fingerprint. They checked the payment history  and there  was 
no record of the disputed payments. There was also no record in the browser  history of 
Mrs A visiting any of the websites in question to place orders.  
Mr A remained unhappy  with HSBCs lack of transparency and inability to produce  evidence 
that the device  ID for the disputed transactions matched genuine activity. He therefore 
referred his complaint to this service.  
Our investigator originally  upheld Mr As complaint. She wasnt satisfied with the accuracy of 
the audit information provided by HSBC. She gave the example of one of the reports  
showing there was one transaction to a supermarket  on 24 September 2018 for £153.34. 
However, on a different  report it showed  a transaction to the same  supermarket on 24 
September 2018 for £151.84.  She also mentioned that the IP addresses would place Mrs A 
in two different  places  with an impossible journey time to get between the two. 
HSBC didnt agree with the investigators  assessment of the complaint. It explained the 
discrepancy with the report around the supermarket transactions,  detailing  the fact that the 
£153.34 and £151.84 were two different transactions.  The £153.34 was never debited, likely 
Ref: DRN46199892due to a merchant issue or the user aborting  the transaction, which  is why it didnt  show  up 
on the second report. It also explained  that IP addresses cant  be used to accurately show  
someones location when making a purchase  online, giving an example of a genuine 
transaction which showed up in two different locations when checked by the investigator and 
HSBC.  
Based on the clarification  from HSBC around the discrepancies in their audit information, our 
investigator decided  not to uphold the complaint. She explained  to Mr and Mrs A that there 
was no clear compromise for Mrs As phone and as she was satisfied with the evidence  
provided by HSBC to show Mrs As device was used to make  the disputed  transactions,  it 
wouldnt be fair to ask HSBC to refund.  
Mr A disagreed with this, so the complaint  has been passed to me to consider. 
I spoke to Mrs A to let her know that HSBC  had provided us with evidence from one of the 
merchants which shows that the online orders werent made  in her name or delivered to her 
address. It shows that the products were collected  from locations more than an hour from 
where Mr and Mrs A live. Mrs A again  confirmed that no one was staying with her at the time 
of the disputed transactions and she didnt see anyone regularly other than Mr A, so no one 
had access to her phone.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as
the investigator previously  set out and for much the same reasons.
In short,  HSBC is required to refund  the amount of an unauthorised  transaction.  The
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017  (PSRs). 
Although Mr A is the account holder, Mrs A is an additional cardholder and is therefore 
authorised to make transactions  on the account. Mrs A says she didnt make the 
transactions to the online retailer and is seeking  a refund. So, my primary concern is to come  
to a view about  whether  or I not I think Mrs A authorised these transactions.  
Having reviewed the transaction history, Im satisfied these transactions were carried out 
online and the genuine card was used in order for the disputed transaction to take place. 
And despite what Mrs A has said, Im persuaded by the evidence  that on balance, she must 
have authorised the transactions.  In coming  to that view, Ive considered  the following:
The evidence obtained by Mr A from the DIY retailer  suggests  that this transaction 
was made in store. However,  the evidence provided by HSBC  doesnt support this. It 
shows the transaction was made  online. Im also satisfied that the IP addresses dont 
reliably show the location of the person making the transaction.  These can often  be 
masked by a VPN or show the location  of the retailer, rather  than the person making 
the transaction. Im therefore satisfied that this evidence  doesnt rule out the 
possibility Mrs A carried out the transactions. 
The audit  report provided by HSBC shows that the disputed spending was carried  out 
on the same phone that had been used by Mrs A to make genuine  payments. I 
understand Mr and Mrs A dispute  this, but Im satisfied with the audit report Ive seen. 
Ref: DRN46199893This rules out that an unknown third party  couldve obtained Mrs A card details - 
through the airline breach Mr A has mentioned for example - as they wouldnt have 
also had access to Mrs As phone. Ive also discounted her phone was compromised  
when Mrs A used the WiFi in the shopping  centre,  as this took place after the 
disputed transactions.  
Ive considered whether someone  other than Mrs A couldve carried out the 
transactions using  her phone. However, based  on what  Mr and Mrs A have said,  I 
dont see how this wouldve been  possible. The transactions occurred over the 
course of three days and at varying times  of the day/evening. This would mean  
someone wouldve  needed to be in close proximity to Mrs As phone  on all of these  
occasions. Mr and Mrs A have said they live alone with their young children and 
didnt have anyone  staying with them during this time. Mrs A was still in possession  
of her phone too. So, I cant see how its possible anyone, other  than Mr and Mrs A, 
couldve gained access to it on six separate occasions to make the transactions  
without Mrs As knowledge. 
The disputed spending on the account  stopped after the transaction  on 26 
September 2018. I find this unusual given the high credit  limit on the card.  Ive 
already ruled  out an unknown third party because of the device ID, but this 
strengthens my view it wasnt an unknown fraudster. If it was, I may expect to see far 
more transactions  being attempted and for them to continue past when the fraud was 
reported. 
If it was a known third party, then maybe this wouldnt  be as unusual  as they may 
well know Mr and Mrs A had reported the transactions.  However, Mr A didnt report  
the transactions until 28 September  2018, so it still looks unusual that the spending  
stopped on 26 September  2018.  
Ive thought about the circumstances of this complaint in great detail. The evidence  from one 
of the merchants that the orders werent  made  in Mr or Mrs As name and were delivered  
some distance away from where they live, is persuasive. However, so is the device ID 
information. Ive scrutinised  this evidence in detail and HSBC has been able to explain the 
report fully and I must take this at face value. So, taking into account the device ID, Mr and 
Mrs As testimony and the pattern of the spending, I think  its most likely Mr or Mrs A carried 
out the disputed spending or allowed someone to do so.
I therefore think its fair and reasonable for HSBC to refuse a refund of the disputed 
transaction. 
I know this outcome will be disappointing  to Mr and Mrs A, but Ive reached  this conclusion 
on balance, based  on the evidence before me. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint against  HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020. 
Ref: DRN46199894Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4619989