K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained about the unfairness of an early repayment  charge (ERC) of £5,340 
applied by HSBC  UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct  and referred  to in this decision as 
HSBC) when he switched mortgage products. He wants  the ERC  refunded.
background
On 27 February 2015 Mr A took out a mortgage with HSBC  (the first mortgage), on a non-
advised basis. He borrowed £267,000  over a 30-year term on a capital repayment basis. For 
the first five years of the term the interest rate was fixed at 3.79%. 
It was a condition  of the mortgage that if it was repaid within  the fixed  rate period an ERC of 
3% of the amount drawn down (not the amount repaid) would be payable for the first year,  
reducing to 2% of the amount drawn down  for the remaining four years  of the fixed rate 
period. The mortgage offer also provided that unlimited payments of capital could be made  
at any time.
Within a few months,  in September  2015, Mr A asked  HSBC if it would grant consent to let. 
HSBC said it wouldnt agree to this, and explained  thered be an ERC if the mortgage  was 
repaid in the first five years.
On 13 October 2016 Mr A switched to a new product, a two-year fixed rate of 1.29% (the 
second mortgage).  Hed paid a small amount off the capital on the first mortgage and so 
needed a loan of £256,450 to repay the first mortgage. In line with the terms and conditions  of 
the first mortgage, an ERC of £5,340 was applied when the first mortgage account was closed.
Mr A complained that this was unfair. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint, so it was brought  to 
us. Two investigators looked at everything  Mr A and HSBC said about the ERC, but neither 
of them  thought HSBC had acted  incorrectly in applying the ERC.
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Hes provided very 
detailed information  about why he believes HSBC has acted unfairly.  Mr A also argues that 
clause 11 of the first mortgage offer allowed for unlimited capital repayments without any 
ERC, and so this should apply in his case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I confirm Ive read and considered 
everything provided by Mr A and HSBC. Some of the information  received from HSBC is 
commercially-sensitive. As such, Ive treated it as confidential, as Im entitled to do.
I see that Mr A wants the Financial Ombudsman  Service to appoint  an independent expert to 
scrutinise the information HSBC has provided about how it calculates the ERC. Mr A has 
also provided his own updated model of how he thinks ERCs should  be charged.  Mr A says 
he expects HSBC to appoint a Senior Managing Director and Senior Legal and Senior Risk 
person to look at his model and provide a response to us on it.   But we dont take direction 
from either party to a complaint on how our investigations are conducted;  if we were to do 
so, it would compromise our independence and impartiality. My role is to review  the 
evidence as presented to me, make  further enquiries if I consider it necessary, and reach a 
decision which I think is fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN40096692the ERC: I see from the file that Mr A was in contact with HSBC  for several  months before 
he took out the second mortgage, and was made aware of the ERC that would be payable  if 
he paid off the first mortgage. But the crux of the complaint is that Mr A believes that the 
ERC is unfair because  it is not an accurate reflection of HSBCs actual loss in him repaying 
the first mortgage. Mr A has provided  his own detailed  calculations of what he considers  to 
be the cost of him repaying the first mortgage early.
When a lender offers a fixed rate, both the lender and borrower  are tied in to the fixed rate 
for the duration  of the fixed term. Theres  a cost to the lender in raising  the funds to lend, 
which it recovers in interest payments. If the product ends early, theres a risk the lender 
wont recover its costs. So theres  a clause in the mortgage agreement  which  allows the 
borrower to exit the mortgage early  in return for paying an ERC.
The rules  of mortgage regulation include provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that 
an ERC must be able to be expressed  as a cash value,  and must  be a reasonable pre-
estimate of the costs  resulting  from early termination of the mortgage. But a lender can 
choose how it calculates an ERC,  and can calculate  the same level of ERC  across a group 
of mortgages  of similar type, rather than for individual loans.
That means that HSBC  is entitled to set an ERC based not on the actual cost to it of Mr A 
ending his individual mortgage early, but on a reasonable pre-estimate  of the costs of early  
termination of a group of mortgages  of similar type.  
In practice, it cant be known whether an individual borrower will or will not end their fixed  
rate early, and if so when. So a lender cant estimate in advance the costs of ending  the 
particular mortgage  early. But the lender can estimate how many borrowers, on average, will 
do so  and apply those costs across  a group of mortgages. The price  of the mortgage, both 
the interest rate and the ERC,  are set at a level that allows the lender to recover its costs.
HSBC has sent us information  about  how its pre-estimate of loss on mortgages  of the type 
Mr A held was calculated. Its done  so in confidence.   I know  Mr A isnt happy with this. Hes 
argued that its near impossible for him to challenge or accept the ERC is fair without having 
details of the calculation. But our rules  allow either  party  to a complaint to submit evidence in 
confidence. Its then for us to decide if its fair to rely on it when deciding the outcome. I do 
think its appropriate here. 
HSBCs calculations are clearly of some commercial sensitivity, but theyre  also material  to 
the outcome of this complaint. Having studied what the bank has sent to us, Im satisfied the 
ERC included in the mortgage contract  was a reasonable pre-estimate of the loss HSBC 
would incur if Mr A repaid  the mortgage before the end of the fixed rate period.
I appreciate Mr A has gone to some lengths to provide us with his own very detailed  
calculations. But what I have to decide here is whether Mr A has been treated unfairly by 
HSBC in relation  to its application of the ERC.  
As Ive explained above, HSBC isnt required to calculate the individual  loss on Mr As 
specific mortgage when  he repaid  it  but to apply the ERC  in line with its regulatory 
obligations. Im satisfied its done so in this case.  HSBC has applied  the ERC to the first 
mortgage as it would for any other  customer in the same position. In the circumstances, I 
cant see that Mr A has been  treated unfairly or differently  from someone  else in the same  
situation.
Ref: DRN40096693unlimited overpayments: Ive also noted  Mr As points about the term in the first mortgage 
offer which provided  he could make unlimited capital repayments without incurring an ERC.  
Mr A suggests this means that the closing of the first mortgage  account was an unlimited 
capital repayment  which shouldnt have incurred an ERC.
The first mortgage offer does indeed say that unlimited capital repayments  can be made.  So 
taking this to an extreme,  in theory  Mr A could have, if hed wanted  to (and had the money to 
do so), paid £266,995 off the capital  sum of £267,000  he borrowed on the first mortgage, 
without incurring an ERC leaving a balance due to HSBC of £5. 
But if hed then paid off the £5 before the end of the five-year period, the ERC on the full 
amount drawn  down  would still have been payable, according to the terms of the first 
mortgage. So even  if Mr A had been  in a position  to make substantial  capital repayments to 
the first mortgage, hed still have had to pay the full ERC on the amount drawn down if hed 
then switched to another  product or refinanced to another lender within the first five years.
So there is no ambiguity.  The mortgage  offer says (and I paraphrase here)  yes, you can 
make unlimited overpayments. But if you repay the outstanding  balance  in full within  the first 
five years,  an ERC is charged on the full amount drawn down. Given his level of financial 
sophistication, Id have expected Mr A to be able to understand  this. I note Mr A took out the 
mortgage on a non-advised basis and so if he misunderstood any of the terms and 
conditions, thats  not the fault of HSBC
HSBCs banking  practices: Finally, Ive noted  all the points Mr A has made  about  why he 
considers the way HSBC calculates its ERC to be archaic and out of step with modern 
banking practice. I dont have any power to tell HSBC to change the way it structures the 
products offered to the public. 
Furthermore, HSBC isnt required to provide a bespoke service to Mr A by calculating the 
ERC on his mortgage  in a different way (as per his own model)  to other customers  in a 
similar position to him. There are lenders which offer bespoke products tailored to the needs  
of individual  borrowers, although  those  lenders  generally cater  to high net worth individuals 
rather than first-time buyers.
I appreciate Mr A considers his model  of calculating an ERC to be better than HSBCs.  But 
its not relevant  to the issue of whether the ERC  which  HSBC  is legitimately entitled to apply 
in accordance with mortgage regulation has been charged fairly in Mr As case.
conclusion: Im satisfied HSBC has done nothing wrong in applying an ERC when Mr A 
repaid the first mortgage.  I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr A wants. But if he decides 
not to accept my final decision, it wont be legally binding, and hell be free to raise his 
grievances about how HSBC calculates  ERCs  in court, if he wants to do so. Mr A might want 
to take legal advice before embarking on any legal action. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Ref: DRN40096694Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4009669