K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N, who are represented by a law firm, complain that Old Mutual Wealth Limited 
delayed unreasonably in upholding their total and permanent disability benefit claim and that 
this caused them to incur just over £14,000  in legal costs. Mr and Mrs N also complain that 
Old Mutual Wealth Limited  gave  contradictory  and confusing information about the deadline 
for complaining to our service.
background
Mr and Mrs N have a lifetime  plan that is underwritten by Old Mutual.  The plan provides, 
amongst other things,  cover in the event of critical illness or total and permanent disability.
In October  2017 Mrs N had a cardiac arrest whilst abroad as a result  of which she suffered a 
hypoxic brain injury. Mr N contacted Old Mutual  to make a claim under the plan for critical 
illness cover.  Mr N instructed a law firm to make  an application appointing him as Mrs Ns 
deputy and to help with the claim on the plan. Old Mutual considered  the claim and said that 
a cardiac arrest wasnt a critical  illness  as defined under the plan. Old Mutual  said that it 
would look into whether or not there was evidence Mrs N had suffered a stroke  a critical 
illness as defined  under the plan. Old Mutual also said that Mrs N might  have a total and 
permanent disability benefit claim but that this would only be clear  once treatments  and 
rehabilitation had been complete.
The law firm representing  Mr and Mrs N disagreed with Old Mutual  that Mrs N didnt have  a 
critical illness and also said that the medical  evidence showed Mrs N was extremely unwell 
and unlikely to make a full recovery.  Old Mutual treated Mr Ns unhappiness as a complaint 
about, amongst  other things, Mrs N not being  covered under the critical illness  section of 
the plan. Old Mutual didnt uphold that complaint  but in July 2018  agreed to accept Mrs Ns 
permanent and total disability claim. Old Mutual said that it agreed  to accept the claim on the 
basis that Mrs N had changed her occupation   when she originally took out the plan her 
occupation was listed as house wife   and that she wouldnt be able to return  to her 
occupation at the time she suffered her hypoxic brain injury. Old Mutual offered to pay the 
claim from February 2018. The law firm representing Mr and Mrs N complained about the 
time it had taken Old Mutual to agree the claim saying that Mr and Mrs N had incurred just 
over £14,000 in legal fees as a result  of the delay.  The law firm also complained about 
confusing and contradictory information Old Mutual had given about complaining to our 
service. They then complained to our service as they were unhappy with Old Mutuals 
response.
One of our investigators  looked into this complaint but didnt uphold it. The law firm 
representing Mr and Mrs N didnt agree with our investigators recommendation and asked 
for a decision from an ombudsman. So Ive considered this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The law firm representing  Mr and Mrs N is complaining about the handling of Mrs Ns 
permanent and total disability claim rather than the original critical illness  claim.  So Im only 
looking at how Old Mutual handled the permanent and total disability  claim.  Old Mutual 
accepted that claim in July 2018  and backdated it to February 2018.
Ref: DRN49975502I can see, having looked at the claim, that Old Mutual believed that Mrs N was a house wife  
at the time she suffered  her hypoxic brain injury.  Thats important because the plan holders  
occupation is relevant  to whether or not a claim for permanent and total disability will be 
successful or not. Thats because  the claim involves looking at whether or not the holder will 
be able to return to their occupation or not. In fact Mrs N was no longer a house wife  when 
she suffered her injury.  Her occupation had changed in 2012   when she started helping out 
with the family business. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont  think  Mrs N told 
Old Mutual that shed  changed her occupation.  So I can understand why Old Mutual initially 
considered the claim on the basis that Mrs N was a house wife and I dont think there  was 
anything unreasonable in doing so. The question is whether or not Old Mutual should have 
realised sooner that it did that Mrs N had changed occupation.
Mrs Ns plan makes  it clear that its the holders responsibility to let the business  know  if they 
change occupation.  In other words, it was Mrs Ns responsibility to tell Old Mutual that shed 
changed occupation. Mr and Mrs N took the plan out thirty years ago and the original 
application form  which Ive seen a copy of  which Mrs N signed said that she was a 
house wife. I can understand,  given how long ago Mr and Mrs N took out the plan, why 
Mrs N might not have realised she needed  to tell Old Mutual that shed changed occupation. 
I also accept that the report  that one of the doctors who examined  Mrs N refers  to Mrs N 
lacking capacity to manage her personal and business finances as well as referring to 
problems Mrs N might have  undertaking more  complex tasks such as financial calculations 
and accounts  that she had previously  managed for her family business.  That might have 
been enough to have  alerted Old Mutual  to the fact that Mrs N had changed occupation, but 
I dont think that would have made a difference in this case. Ill explain why.
Mrs N suffered her hypoxic brain  injury in October 2017 following which she had treatment 
and was then put on a rehabilitation programme.  The reports  Ive seen show that the 
professionals treating  Mrs N were  very pleased  with her progress  in fact she was 
discharged early. In November 2017  Old Mutual  said that it was too early to say what  the 
long term impact of Mrs Ns injury would be  in other words,  whether it would be a 
permanent disability   and I dont think that was unreasonable. I also dont think there was 
enough evidence  until February 2018  at the earliest  to make this assessment. Thats  the 
date from which Old Mutual offered to pay the claim.  In short,  I wouldnt have expected Old 
Mutual to pay the claim earlier even  if it had picked up in November 2017  that Mrs N had 
changed occupation.
The law firm says that Mr and Mrs N have incurred considerable legal costs  because of the 
way in which Old Mutual  handled the claim, including  taking  until July 2018  to decide the 
claim. I accept that Mrs N wasnt in a position to bring the claim herself,  but I dont agree that 
lawyers had to become  involved, particularly when it came to complaining to our service. 
Thats because were  a quick and informal  service and one that is accessible meaning 
individuals can bring complaints to us easily and without the need to involve a lawyer.  I 
accept that following Mrs Ns injury  Mr N had a lot to deal with  running the family business 
single-handedly and looking after his wife. Mrs N obviously  provided  a lot of support before 
she became unwell. Mr N could, however, have got help with the business or help looking 
after his wife. In short, I agree that there was an element of choice here. I also dont accept 
that a law firm had to get involved to bring the claim.  So I dont think  it would be fair to say 
Old Mutual should  cover  any of the legal  costs that Mr and Mrs N have incurred.
I agree  with the law firm that Old Mutual gave  confusing and contradictory information about  
the deadline for bringing this complaint to us. That also meant that Old Mutual said it thought 
Ref: DRN49975503this complaint wasnt one we could look at. Its disappointing to see a business make the 
number of errors Old Mutual did around  dates.  But I dont  agree that this ultimately  made a 
big difference to Mr N, or that it had a significant  impact on him. So I dont think  it would be 
fair to tell Old Mutual to do more.  
my final decision
My Final  Decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4997550