K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Covea  Insurance plc (Covea)  has declined a claim they
made under their home insurance policy for a problem with their septic  tank.
background 
In May 2018  Mr and Mrs M made a claim to Covea after they noticed  their septic  tank was
refilling very soon after being emptied.
Covea arranged for a drainage company to inspect the system. The report  noted damage to
the septic tank as a result of repeated flooding. It said the pipework which  took water away
from the tank was suffering from significant root ingress. And this was because the pipe
material was one designed to have holes  in it.
Covea declined the claim. It described  the problem as tree roots causing the pipe to move
and cause blockages  in the soakaway,  which resulted in the septic tank overflowing. Covea
considered this had been  caused by faulty  design and had happened over a period of time. 
It said the policy didnt  cover damage caused  in this way  it only covered  situations where
there was an accidental event involving some external  force.
Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to this service  and our investigator  considered  it. She
thought Covea had unfairly declined the claim. She recommended  Covea cover the claim
and pay £150  compensation.
Covea didnt agree  with our investigator. It said a fundamentally inappropriate pipe had been
installed, so tree root ingress was inevitable, and Mr and Mrs M would have been aware of
the increased likelihood of problems  with the drainage  system.  It went  on to say that 
Mr and Mrs M were  advised not to have this kind of pipe installed but ignored  that advice.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 May 2020 in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. Ill
explain why.
The policy is an all risks one, which means  it covers all loss or damage to the buildings,
subject to a number of policy terms which set out whats  not covered. It defines  the word
buildings to include service tanks and underground  services.
That means any loss or damage to the drainage  system is covered  by the policy   unless
Covea can show that a policy term applies. Covea  believes  two terms apply to this term.
They say:
Whats not covered:
Faulty workmanship, defective design, or use of defective materials
Loss or damage to underground services caused by gradual deterioration
When an insurer relies on an exclusion to do with defective workmanship,  design or
materials, I would expect  it to point to some  objective evidence  to show what the relevant
regulations, guidelines or widely accepted  good industry practices  were  at the time the work
Ref: DRN41884382was carried out. And I would expect it to show me how it thinks  these standards  werent  met
in the circumstances of this particular claim.
Covea has said the pipework is defective because  its perforated. And thats  allowed tree
roots to get into the pipe and eventually block it. Covea  also said Mr and Mrs M were
advised not to use this type of pipework  but insisted upon it.
I understand the pipework was installed in 2014  as part of a previous insurance  claim, which
was handled by a different insurer. The only evidence Covea has provided  to support its 
point of view is a report from the drainage company acting  for the insurer in 2014.  The report
shows the drainage  company considered two different options for pipework materials before
settling on the perforated  type. Covea hasnt provided any evidence to suggest the use of
perforated pipework was contrary  to any relevant standards that might have applied to the
installation of drainage pipes in 2014. It doesnt appear to have explored why the perforated
type of material  was chosen  over the alternative. Without this kind of evidence, it appears
one drainage company made  a recommendation which, with the benefit  of hindsight, another
drainage company disagrees with. Im not satisfied  that Covea have shown this amounts  to
the use of defective  materials,  a defect  in the design or faulty workmanship.
Theres no mention in the report  of Mr and Mrs M expressing a preference for one option
over the other. And Ive seen no mention  of it elsewhere in the information provided  by
Covea. The report doesnt appear  to offer any advice or recommendations to Mr and Mrs M.
The report  is written to the insurer and concludes perforated drainage should be used. So, I
dont think its right for Covea to say that Mr and Mrs M insisted on the choice of material  or
that they ignored advice about the choice of material.
The damage takes the form of blocked pipework  due to the build-up of roots. And the
consequential damage within the tank as the water which couldnt  pass the blockage
returned into the tank and overwhelmed the mechanical system within  it. Coveas drainage
report says the damage to the tank was sudden. So, I dont think the policy term about
gradual deterioration can apply to the tank itself
I think the blockage  was caused  gradually  because it was the result of root growth. But I
dont think its fair to say the blockage was caused by gradual  deterioration.  The roots
havent caused a blockage because  the condition of the pipe has worsened  over time.
Coveas drainage report doesnt  mention any damage at all to the pipe. Theres no
suggestion the pipe has suffered wear and tear, cracks or open joints over time that might
have let the roots in. So I dont think the policy term about gradual  deterioration  applies to
the blockage either.
Based on the information Ive been provided  with, Im not satisfied Covea has shown that it
would be fair to rely on either of the policy terms its raised. So I dont think it would be fair
for Covea  to decline the claim. To put things  right,  Covea should now deal with the claim,
subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. If Mr and Mrs M have incurred
any costs during the claim, they can provide evidence  of them for Covea to consider.
I agree  with our investigator that the delay in dealing with the claim has caused
Mr and Mrs M avoidable inconvenience. I think £150 is reasonable compensation in the
circumstances.
Neither Covea, or Mr and Mrs M, have provided any further comments  for me to consider.
Ref: DRN41884383my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive received  no further comments from either Mr and Mrs M or Covea my decision 
remains the same as set out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  To put things right 
Covea Insurance  plc should:
Settle the claim,  subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy
Pay Mr and Mrs M £150 compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 July 2020
Michael Baronti
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4188438