K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that Mortgage  Shop London Ltd (MSL) has not refunded a fee 
they paid to it for mortgage advice, as well as other  costs incurred, after the house  purchase 
they were trying to fund fell through. 
background
In June 2017 Mr and Mrs A approached MSL for help in finding a mortgage.  
On 26 June 2017 MSL sent Mr and Mrs A four separate emails  saying it looked like it would 
be able to help find them a mortgage.  Each email detailed a different variation of mortgage  
with different levels of funding required.
The emails  all explained that in each case a commitment fee was payable  by Mr and Mrs A 
to MSL. The level of the fee differed, depending on the option  chosen. The emails  explained  
that the size of this upfront fee reflects the relatively small size of the mortgage required and 
the knock on effect of a relatively small payment a lender  will make  to us for undertaking this 
work for them and reflects the work  involved to arrange this mortgage  based on your 
individual circumstances . The emails  also explained  that the fee is refundable if we fail to 
find you funds.
Ive seen evidence  that Mr and Mrs A questioned  the fee further and whether it needed to be 
paid in full. After a conversation with MSL,  they agreed to pay it. 
Mr and Mrs A paid MSL £1,299. It confirmed receipt of this payment on 3 July 2017 by email  
and reiterated  the fee was only refundable if it failed to find them a funds.
On 20 July 2017 MSL sent Mr and Mrs A an email saying that it had received an agreement 
in principle from the lender. The email  gave details of the interest  rate and amount to be 
borrowed but not the name of the lender. Mr and Mrs A then sent MSL details of the property 
they were intending  to purchase.
A decision in principle or mortgage offer were not received by Mr and Mrs A. In November 
2017 the vendor indicated they would be re-listing the property for sale. 
A mortgage offer was still not forthcoming.  The property was re-listed by the vendor. Mr and 
Mrs A contacted MSL on 6 May 2018 and confirmed that they had now lost the property as it 
had been sold.  As a result, and as no funds had been found, they requested  a refund of the 
commitment fee. 
MSL declined to refund the fee saying it was non-refundable and that it was trying to assist  
them in finding  funds not buying a particular house  and it remained willing  to do this. It said it 
was still looking at lines of funding it was trying to finalise. 
Unhappy with this response,  Mr and Mrs A complained to our service.  They  said in addition 
to requesting a refund  of the fee theyd like a refund of the solicitors fee (£300) and property 
reservation fee (£250) that theyd lost. 
An investigator considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld  in part. She didnt  
think MSL should  have to refund the reservation  fee or solicitors  costs as it seemed  these  
would always have  been payable and there was no evidence that MSL had told Mr and 
Ref: DRN43731082Mrs A to pay these before  an offer was made.  She did however think  that the commitment 
fee should be refunded as no mortgage  funds  had been found.  She also felt MSL should  pay 
interest on this amount  at a rate of 8% from the date that MSL was notified by the lender it 
approached that the application  could not be considered until certain  criteria  were met.
Mr and Mrs A accepted the investigators opinion. MSL did not. In summary  it felt it was 
unfair to ask it to refund the fee as it had put a significant amount of work  into finding a 
mortgage. It also said information had come to light after its initial discussions with Mr and 
Mrs A that had made it a lot more  difficult to find funding. It also said the rate of interest the 
investigator recommended it pay was unfair.  But more importantly, it also disagreed  it had 
failed to find funds  as it said a lender had indicated it was willing  to consider the application.
As MSL did not agree  with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me 
to decide.
my findings
We have been  provided with a lot of correspondence and both parties have given  detailed  
explanations of their position  in particular MSL in response to the investigators opinion. Id 
like to reassure both parties that Ive considered all the available  evidence and arguments  to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I will not however 
cover every point made individually,  rather my decision is a summary  of what I consider  to 
be the key issues.
MSL has provided us a copy  of its Key Facts document that it says is made available to all 
prospective customers. There is a section  that explains  the fees payable. This says An 
upfront client Commitment Fee may be payable in some circumstances to allow  us to
dedicate processing  time to individual clients, if this is applicable to you and this transaction
you will be advised of this in our upfront brief quotation. The key facts documents goes on to 
say, under a heading regarding refunds of fees that Our fees once paid are deemed earned 
regardless of the outcome  of the transaction. And All fees when charged are not 
refundable in any event  (the emphasis of the worlds in bold mirrors the key facts document).
But in the emails MSL sent Mr and Mrs A it made it clear that the commitment fee is 
refundable if we fail to find you funds. Ive seen evidence  that Mr and Mrs A questioned the 
commitment fee before  agreeing to pay it. And in an email  confirming  receipt of the fee MSL 
again confirmed  it was refundable if it failed to find funds. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), requires business to be fair, clear  and 
not-misleading in their communications with customers. Obviously these documents  give 
conflicting information about the commitment fee and make  the situation unclear. But I think  
the information in the emails is the relevant  information in Mr and Mrs As case. 
The key facts document was not specific to Mr and Mrs A. In fact it talks about those 
customers that were required to pay a commitment  fee being advised about  this in the 
quotation. 
The emailed  quotations  were tailored to Mr and Mrs A, and make  it clear  that the fee is 
refundable if MSL failed  to find funds. Given that Mr and Mrs A sought further assurances 
from MSL before paying the fee, Im satisfied that this was the basis on which they agreed  to 
proceed with MSL. And I think its unlikely theyd have agreed to pay the fee, or proceed,  
had this not been explained to them in this way. 
Ref: DRN43731083So Im satisfied that the agreement between MSL and Mr and Mrs A was made on the basis 
that the commitment  fee would be refundable if MSL failed to find funds.
MSL has said in its response to the investigator  that it didnt think it was fair that the fee 
should be refunded because of the significant amount of time it had put into researching a 
mortgage and dealing with this enquiry. It also said that the task of finding funds was made 
more difficult as new information came to light after the commitment fee was paid. 
Ive reviewed the evidence MSL has provided.  I can see that MSL sent a number of emails 
and did ask Mr and Mrs A for a lot of information.  I havent seen a great deal of information 
showing that it was in direct contact  with lenders. Ive seen  emails  that it sent to a third-party 
firm in July and August  2017. This third-party  firm appears to have been engaged to submit  
an application to a lender.  But it appears to have then confirmed that this had been rejected. 
Ive seen an email from MSL to the same lender in December 2017.  But the rest of the 
correspondence seems  to largely  have been with Mr and Mrs A. 
The initial emails from MSL to Mr and Mrs A do indicate that the application is not 
considered normal  circumstances, and the interest  rate will reflect  that. So I think MSL was 
aware, before it told Mr and Mrs A it could help them, that this was not a straight forward  
enquiry. From reviewing  the emails, I can also see that some new information does appear 
to have come to light after the initial  enquiry, including relating to residency. Im conscious 
though that if it became clear to MSL that there  was limited prospect of successfully finding 
funds, it couldve just explained this to Mr and Mrs A and refunded the fee.
More importantly, the information  that MSL sent Mr and Mrs A before they proceeded says 
the commitment fee is refundable if it fails to find them funds.  There were no additional 
caveats mentioned in respect of the fee about  it not being refundable if MSL undertook a 
certain amount  of work  or if new information  came  to light. So while I can understand its 
point of view,  I dont think this is a fair reason for the fee to be retained in this case.
MSL has argued that it was not assisting with the purchase of a specific  property rather the 
fee was paid for it to find funds. And as it was still willing to do this the fee should not be 
refunded. I understand mortgage applications  can take time, particularly if the circumstances 
are not straightforward. And I do also appreciate  that sometimes the purchase of a particular 
property may fall through but consumers may continue to source funding  for a different 
purchase. But I dont  think  its reasonable for this agreement to be considered open ended or 
to carry on indefinitely.
So the issue  I need to consider is whether MSL found Mr and Mrs A funds  within a 
reasonable period of time.  
MSL has referred to an email it received from a lender on 8 December 2017. The email said 
that the lender had reviewed the case with underwriters, the response was that the client 
would need to have indefinite stay before  we can consider the case.  MSL has said that this 
shows it had found a lender willing to provide funds. But I disagree. This email says that the 
lender would only be willing to consider the matter,  once certain criteria was met. It does not 
give an agreement to provide funds. So I dont  think this can be fairly said to be evidence 
that MSL had found funds  for Mr and Mrs A. 
Ref: DRN43731084MSL has said it is very difficult to provide certainty when it comes to mortgage applications 
as lenders may decline an application at any stage. And I understand this. But I think  to fairly 
conclude that MSL had found  funds for Mr and Mrs A wed need to see evidence that a 
lender had assessed their individual circumstances and made some  form of agreement  to 
lend - either through  a mortgage offer or at minimum a decision in principle. 
From the information Ive been provided,  Ive seen no evidence  that a mortgage offer or 
decision in principle from a lender  has been  provided to Mr and Mrs A at any stage. So I 
dont think I can fairly  conclude that MSL has found  them funds. As a result, on the basis of 
the agreement  they made  with Mr and Mrs A, I think  the commitment  fee should be 
refunded.
Mr and Mrs A approached MSL in June 2017  for help finding  a mortgage. By May 2018, 11 
months later, funding  had not been  found. I think it was reasonable at that point for Mr and 
Mrs A to conclude MSL wasnt able to find funds for them and ask for a refund of the 
commitment fee. But I also think it was clear when  MSL received an email  from the lender it 
was approaching in December 2017, confirming it wouldnt consider an application  until 
criteria were met, that it was not going to be able to find funds. And I think  it wouldve  been 
reasonable to refund  the commitment fee at that time.  So I think, in addition  to refunding the 
commitment fee, MSL should  pay interest on the amount from December 2017.
In most cases, we think a rate of 8% simple  per year is appropriate to reflect  the cost of 
being deprived of money in the past.  We wouldnt normally use the current  rates  paid on 
deposit accounts as a benchmark. This is because the rates  of interest  customers  have to 
pay in order to borrow are usually much higher. 8% is also the same interest rate that the 
courts would normally award.  I know MSL thinks this is unfair, but I dont see a reason to 
depart from our usual  approach.
Like our investigator,  I dont think it would be fair to require  MSL to refund the reservation fee 
that Mr and Mrs A paid for the property,  or any solicitors costs incurred due to the failed 
purchase. It appears  that Mr and Mrs A took the decision to pay these costs. I havent  seen  
anything to suggest this was on the instruction of MSL. It also seems  likely these would 
always have been  payable anyway. And even if MSL had been successful in finding  funds,  
they couldve been lost had the purchase  fallen  through for any other reason. I dont think  I 
can conclude that these fees would  not always have been  incurred,  and potentially  lost, so I 
dont think I can reasonably as MSL to pay them.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint in part.
To put things right Mortgage Shop London  Ltd should;
refund  the commitment fee of £1,299  that Mr and Mrs A paid it
pay interest on this amount at a rate of 8% from December 2017 until the date the 
refund is made. If Mortgage Shop London Ltd thinks that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct  income  tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs 
A how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr and Mrs A a tax deduction  certificate 
if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Ref: DRN43731085Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2020.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4373108