K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that an early repayment charge (ERC) sought to be made by their 
lifetime mortgagee Just Retirement Money  Limited  (JRM) is excessive. 
To resolve  their complaint  they want JRM to set aside the ERC.
background
Mr and Mrs C have a lifetime  mortgage with JRM.  For health reasons  they decided  to move 
abroad. Selling  their house would incur  a substantial ERC. They wrote to JRM objecting  to 
the ERC.
They said lenders had enjoyed access to money at extremely low rates, and had been  
lending to individuals such  as themselves at rates significantly more  than the cost of the 
funding. They considered  JRMs profits on the funding were in the region of 300-400%.
They understood that ERCs existed to make sure lenders  made a reasonable  return. But the 
ERC they were facing  plus the interest was excessive and JRM was simply profiteering.
JRM replied that calculating the ERC  involved using  a benchmark interest rate (BIR) and 
the FTSE UK Gilts 15 Year Yield  Index (the index). JRM used  this as it was an independent 
measure of long-term lending rates. In Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage  offer documents, JRM had 
used the BIR published by the Financial Times on the previous business day, which  was 
3.11%.
JRM added 0.2% making 3.31%.  This was to cover the costs of reinvesting  the money if the 
borrower repaid  the mortgage early.  Both of the rates  were  on the first page of 
Mr and Mrs Cs loan agreement. If the BIR on any redemption statement was lower  than the 
target benchmark rate (TBR) an ERC  would apply up to the maximum figure. 
Mr and Mrs C werent  happy and made a complaint to this service. They said theyd asked 
JRM for details of the ERC calculation but it had refused. They could see no correlation 
between the ERC and the amount of interest which had accrued. How could an ERC be fair 
when the same charge could be made against  two individuals, one who owed a considerable 
amount of interest  whilst  the other hardly  owed any?
The ERC was linked to the index which Mr and Mrs C believed was an unsuitable instrument 
because it could suffer spikes  in price due to market  sentiment and loose talk by bankers 
and politicians. Also the lender controlled  the loan closing date and therefore to some  extent  
the prices of the index used in the loan agreement. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend Mr and Mrs Cs complaint be upheld. She said that when 
we looked at complaints about  a business, we needed to consider what it had done wrong. 
Whilst the ERCs on this type of mortgage could appear high, they were as described in the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage  when it was taken out. 
Ref: DRN44751742JRMs method of calculating the ERC was standard in the industry  with this type of mortgage 
and not something  specific  to JRM. The ERC  was charged on the day the lifetime  mortgage 
was redeemed and JRM had no flexibility about  this. It was explained in the illustration and 
the loan agreement. This was an approach which was allowed by the regulator.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept the adjudicators  conclusions. They  said JRM calculated the 
ERC by a calculation known  only to itself which it refused to share with borrowers.
They repeated the index  was a publicly traded instrument which was unsuitable for this 
purpose as it suffered  price spikes which could be caused by any number  of random events 
e.g. loose talk in the media by bankers,  politicians etc. These  price  spikes may cause large 
variations in the BIR over a relatively short time scale. This, in their opinion, made any ERC 
random, arbitrary and in effect a lottery.
In addition, Mr and Mrs C pointed out that JRM would  only deal with the public through a 
financial adviser. They believe  this was detrimental  to the public. They also believe this 
service should ensure  that such companies whose profitability depends on a vulnerable  
section of our society are properly regulated and scrutinised.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C question whether use of the index to calculate ERCs is a fair and reasonable 
lending practice.  
There are two types of ERC used with equity  release mortgages. These are a fixed charge 
calculated as a percentage of the amount  repaid or a floating charge calculated  by reference 
to an investment index,  specifically  the FTSE UK Gilt 15 year Yield Index. The fixed 
percentage guarantees that an ERC  will be payable in any circumstances whereas the 
possibility exists with the index linked  ERC  for nothing to be payable, depending  on 
movements in the index. In simple terms, if the index yield  expressed as a percentage  
fell below a benchmark rate, an ERC would be payable whereas if the yield went  above the 
benchmark, an ERC wouldnt be payable. 
Calculating  ERCs  by reference  to a gilts index is common in the industry with this type of 
mortgage. Lenders borrow the money  they lend to consumers and have to pay costs to their 
lenders to do so, just as a consumer does.  The lender will have to pay the costs of borrowing 
the money irrespective  of whether the consumer it subsequently lent the money to still has 
their mortgage or not. So if a mortgage  is paid off early, the lender can suffer  a loss on that 
money because it has to continue to pay the cost of borrowing that money, but no interest is 
accruing on an outstanding  debt.  
Lenders use the redemption yield on gilts to calculate whether they will suffer  a loss on the 
borrowed money  on early repayment of a mortgage. This assessment includes whether the 
lender will have the ability to reinvest/relend the money repaid by comparing the gilt 
redemption yield on the date of the loan advance with the yield on the date of early 
repayment. If the redemption yield on the repayment  date is lower,  lenders use the 
difference to calculate an ERC,  which is subject  to a maximum amount in the case  of 
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage. 
Ref: DRN44751743I havent seen  anything in this case to indicate  that the lender has made an error in 
calculating the ERC  or that it is inappropriate  for it to be applied.
In effect Mr and Mrs C are asking me to prohibit the use of the index for this purpose.  But 
that would  be a matter for the regulator. Im not a regulator. My awards are designed to 
address loss, damage and material distress and inconvenience suffered by a consumer as a 
result of errors, poor service or breaches  of contract  or duty by a financial business. 
In its letters  of 28 June,  3 July and 22 August, and in a further letter sent at my request on 
3 May 2019,  and its Guide to the early repayment charge JRM has provided  a reasonable 
explanation of how its calculated the ERC.  In addition, how the mortgage  worked  should  
have been explained to Mr and Mrs C by their mortgage adviser. There would also likely 
have been the requirement for Mr and Mrs Cs solicitors to ensure that they understood the 
contract they were  entering into.
I cant see that fairness requires a correlation  between the ERC and the amount of interest 
which has accrued, nor why a lenders insistence  on the use of financial advisers is 
detrimental to the public.  Indeed, it is because such mortgages are long-term products that 
can be expensive to withdraw from that most  lenders require  advice to be given. This is to 
ensure that consumers  understand  the mortgage  they are taking out and that it is suitable for 
their needs.  
In the circumstances I dont consider JRM needs to do anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4475174