K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) wont  reinstate 
his No Claims Discount  (NCD)  following an error he made when he bought  a car insurance 
policy. 
background
In January 2017 Mr A bought a car insurance policy with LV. He said he had one years 
NCD. LV sent Mr A his policy documents which confirmed the same.
In January 2018 Mr A renewed  his policy with LV. It quoted his NCD at two years   based on 
the information it had. 
Mr A made a claim in 2018. He cancelled his policy with LV in January  2019. A few months 
later Mr A asked LV to provide proof of his NCD history. It was then that he noticed  his NCD 
had reduced to zero. He told LV his correct  NCD from January 2017  was 10 years, not one. 
He provided a letter from his previous insurer to confirm this. Mr A wanted  LV to reinstate his 
NCD to the correct number of years.
LV said that it had acted correctly. Mr A told it he had one years NCD. He had the 
opportunity to correct  this when he received his policy documents  in January 2017  and 
again in 2018. As a claim had been  made,  the correct NCD was zero.
Mr A asked us to look at his complaint.  He thought  LV should  have  checked  his NCD when 
he bought his policy in January 2017. If it had, the error would  have come  to light. 
Our investigator thought LV hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr A didnt agree. He says he didnt make the error intentionally. He said it feels  unfair to 
lose his hard earned NCD. Hes provided proof  of the correct NCD history. He doesnt  
believe LV is treating  him fairly by disregarding  it  even if he was late providing the 
information.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
I understand Mr A doesnt recall checking  his policy documents when LV sent them. 
However, the onus  is on a consumer to read and check that the information they give to an 
insurer is correct when  buying insurance.  LV has provided a copy  of the policy  documents  it 
sent to Mr A in January  2017  and in 2018.  Both sets of documents clearly  record  Mr As 
NCD as one and two years respectively.
Insurers can carry out validation checks if they want to. In this case, LV has told us it carries 
out checks against a random selection of customers. I dont think LV was wrong because  it 
didnt carry out a validation check on Mr As policy. 
Ref: DRN48211472If Mr A had declared the correct NCD in January 2017, it would have reduced to four years 
at renewal in 2019 due to the claim made in 2018. So the impact  of Mr As error is that his 
NCD reduced by a further four years   to zero. 
I understand Mr A will be disappointed with my decision. But I dont think LV has done 
anything wrong. It relied on the information  Mr A provided. Mr A didnt notice his error  until 
over two and a half years later. So I think LV has acted in a fair and reasonable way. This 
means Im not asking  it to do anymore. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4821147