K820x#14complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the increases in her premiums on her home insurance policy held 
with St Andrews Insurance Plc (StAIP).
background
I issued my provisional decision on 13 March 2020.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. Broadly summarised,  I 
didnt uphold  Mrs Cs complaint as I hadnt  seen anything to suggest  that StAIP had treated 
her unfairly.
StAIP confirmed it had received the provisional  decision and didnt have anything  further  to 
add.
Mrs C responded disagreeing with my provisional findings. Mrs C provided an initial  
response on 8 April 2020 and a second, further response on 17 April 2020.
In summary,  across both responses, Mrs C:
doesnt feel our service was impartial and considers my provisional decision was 
bias, favouring StAIPs perspective  and not hers.
says our service takes the view that if consumers dont shop around regularly  
businesses can charge what they like. Mrs C considers  consumers should  be able to 
stay with an insurer and not be taken advantage off.
feels StAIP should have informed her of any increases  to her premium due to risk 
and wanted StAIP  to produce  evidence  of the risk. Mrs C also considers our service 
should be able to comment on an insurers charging structure.
says when she took out her policy with StAIP, she wasnt  informed of any new 
customer discount and she wasnt informed of any discount  when she took out her 
new policy.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having reviewed Mrs Cs responses  and further  comments, Ive seen nothing  to change my 
provisional findings. I know Mrs C will be disappointed, so Ill go through  her main concerns 
and try to provide  her with assurance that StAIP has treated fairly and the reasons why.
our services  role 
We are an impartial service set up to resolve  disputes between financial businesses  and 
consumers. Importantly, we dont side with either party. We weigh up the evidence  
presented and reach our opinion on whether something went wrong. 
Ref: DRN46938592I weighed up all the evidence provided  to me by both Mrs C and StAIP. I considered there 
were reasons for the premiums increasing in cost,  and StAIP  hadnt taken advantage of 
Mrs C simply because she hadnt engaged with the cost at renewal. The reasons for the 
increases were explained in detail within my provisional decision.
While it is understandable for Mrs C to disagree  with my provisional findings, just because  I 
think StAIP hasnt treated Mrs C unfairly,  doesnt  automatically mean I wasnt impartial and 
sided with the business. StAIP provided its reasons for the increases  and having  
considered those reasons I was satisfied it hadnt unfairly taken advantage of Mrs C.
Mrs Cs concern businesses can charge what they like if consumers dont shop around
Mrs C says that our service should  be able to look at what an insurer  charges and insurers  
shouldnt take advantage  of consumers who dont shop around.  
As explained within my provisional decision, I dont  have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role.
Each insurer is entitled to reassess the risk a consumer/property presents. And it will base 
the premium on that perceived risk, alongside a number of other  factors  such  as the wider 
claims it may have to pay out for its policy holders, the administration costs of the policy or 
the day to day costs of running its business  and how much profit it hopes to make. These  
are all commercial  decisions for each insurer to make.  Different insurers can and do have  
different perceptions of risk and may charge different premiums based  on this. That isnt to 
say one price is right and another  is wrong. I dont have the power to tell a business  whether 
its price is too high or too low. And our service  doesnt regulate the insurance industry. 
But our service, can look into individual complaints  to make sure a consumer was treated 
fairly. So in Mrs Cs complaint, while I cant look to what StAIP charged Mrs C  and say 
whether that price,  was right or wrong   I can look to see whether it treated her fairly  during 
the years  she held the policy.
If Mrs Cs premiums had increased just because she wasnt engaging with the cost at 
renewal, then that wouldnt be fair. But I dont think thats what happened, which is why I 
dont think Mrs Cs complaint should  be upheld.
While Mrs C didnt  engage with her renewals and the premiums did increase over the years,  
Im satisfied they increased  for legitimate reasons, rather than StAIP taking advantage of her 
behaviour. 
StAIPs reassessment of the risk presented  to it in the later years
Mrs C says StAIP didnt inform her of any increases due to risk in the later years and wants 
StAIP to produce evidence of this risk. 
If an insurer reassesses any of the various  perils it insures  (such  as flood, theft, fire) and 
considers there is an increased risk of claims, it will increase the premium in accordance 
with that risk.
Ref: DRN46938593This is what  happened in Mrs C case.  In 2015  and 2017  StAIP  revisited the risk of claims 
from flooding. I dont  think it would  be fair to expect StAIP to inform all of its consumers 
every time there is any change in its perception of risk. It is the nature of insurance   an 
insurer will charge an amount that it thinks is indicative of the risk presented to it. Im also 
mindful that renewals  were sent each year which set out the cost to Mrs C for the upcoming 
year. And if she wasnt happy with the price she was being offered, she didnt have to allow  
the policy to renew.
Mrs C has asked for evidence of this change in StAIPs  assessment of the risk of providing 
her with insurance. I cannot provide  details  of StAIPs underwriting  criteria  as it is business 
sensitive, but I can assure Mrs C I have seen  evidence  StAIP  did change the way it 
assessed the risk of flooding in 2015 and in 2017 which  caused  her premium to increase. 
And from what Ive seen, the price Mrs C was charged for the insurance was in line with the 
cost of insuring her property, rather than StAIP taking  advantage of her because  she wasnt 
engaging with her renewal.
new customer discounts.
Mrs C had a concern about new customer  discounts and the fact that it appears all insurers  
seemingly offer them. Online practices  and comparison websites have meant the insurance 
market has become ever more increasingly competitive. Policies taken out now often come 
with a significant initial discount. The reason for this is that insurers  will provide insurance at 
a cost that is less than the true cost of insuring a property and aim to keep the consumer and 
recoup the discount over the following years.  I dont think this is unfair.  
Some insurers may say what the discount being  offered  is and some  may not  it isnt a 
requirement. Its also up to the insurer to decide  how much of a discount it considers it can 
offer. Ultimately as long as the price a consumer will be paying for the year is set out clearly, 
then it is for the consumer  to decide  whether the insurance meets their needs  and is at a 
cost that is acceptable and affordable to them.
Mrs Cs policy did include an introductory  discount. StAIP  has shown that there was a 
discount applied  and Im satisfied that this is the case. And the main  reason the premium  
increased over the early  years Mrs C had her policy was that this discount was being  
recouped. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold 
Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN46938594Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the increases in her premiums  on her home  insurance policy held with 
St Andrews  Insurance  Plc (StAIP).
background
In April 2010,  Mrs C took out a home insurance policy  underwritten by StAIP. It provided her with 
buildings and contents insurance  cover and also included legal expenses  cover. Mrs Cs policy 
initially cost £301.86  for the year. 
The policys  cost increased over the years.  In 2014 the policy  cost £421.18. By 2017 it was £689.54 
and in 2018, the renewal  was to cost £840.35  for the year. 
As the cost had gone up, Mrs C contacted StAIP  to see if the cost of her insurance  could be reduced.  
She explained she was happy with the costs  in the early years but thought the cost had gone up 
significantly in the last few years. Mrs C said she had searched  online and found  that she could get 
insurance for cheaper within the same insurance  group. StAIP couldnt offer a better price and Mrs C 
ended up cancelling her home  insurance. She got a new home insurance policy  with a different 
provider which was cheaper.
Because of the difference in cost, and because she didnt think she had been treated fairly, Mrs C 
complained to StAIP. 
StAIP looked into Mrs Cs concerns. Broadly  summarised  it said that the premiums charged over the 
years were correct. It also explained that part of the reason for the increase was in relation to the 
insurance premium  tax (IPT) increases that happened over the years.
Unhappy with StAIPs response, Mrs C referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. They  thought  Mrs Cs complaint should  be upheld. They  
considered Mrs C hadnt engaged  with the renewals over the years and the premiums had increased. 
So they thought, as there didnt seem to be any risk related reasons for the premium increasing, 
StAIP had treated Mrs C unfairly.  To put things right they thought StAIP should  pay back some of the 
cost of the insurance. 
StAIP disagreed. It provided more information about  the cost of Mrs Cs policy  over the years and 
details about why the premium had increased. StAIP explained there were  two main  factors. 
First, when Mrs C initially took out the policy it included an introductory discount, which  StAIP says it 
recouped over the subsequent  years. 
And second,  in 2015 and 2017  StAIP says it reassessed the risk of providing insurance to its 
consumers using a more up to date risk model.  StAIP  explained following  this reassessment it 
considered Mrs Cs property was considered  a higher  risk than before. StAIP say the increases in the 
later years (from 2015 onwards) were to start to bring the policy cost in line with the risk it now 
associated with insuring  Mrs Cs property.
So StAIP said the increases werent  purely  because Mrs C wasnt engaging with renewals and there 
were legitimate reasons  for the increases.
As the matter  hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN46938595my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered whats happened, I disagree with the findings of our investigator. I think 
StAIP has treated Mrs C fairly.  I know  this will come as a disappointment to Mrs C, so Id like to 
explain why.
I would like to make  it clear that I dont have the power to tell a business  what  its insurance  should 
cost. I would be, in effect determining  or telling  a business how it should  operate  and thats not my 
role. 
But I can look at whether StAIP  treated Mrs C fairly  throughout the time she held her home  insurance 
policy with it.
Its not unusual for the cost of an insurance  policy  to change at each renewal. And there can be 
several, legitimate reasons  for this. But as most policies automatically renew if a consumer doesnt  
stop it, a consumer who doesnt engage  with the renewal process  or shop  around can find they are 
paying much  more for their cover than a new customer. 
An insurer hasnt necessarily done anything wrong  by changing the premium at renewal but where  
they knew,  or ought reasonably to have known, the consumer wasnt engaging with the renewals  
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these  consumers  fairly  and that 
they didnt take advantage of the consumers  behaviour by increasing their premiums just because  
someone wasnt engaging.
So Ive looked into the policy  Mrs C held with StAIP  to see what happened.
the early years
StAIP has explained that when Mrs C took out her policy  in 2010 it included an introductory  discount. 
It isnt uncommon for insurers to initially price a policy  at a lower cost than it would charge existing  
customers for the same risk. This is to attract new customers. Insurers aim to keep the consumer  and 
recoup that cost over the subsequent years. I dont think this unfair.
So there was a reason  for the increases  in Mrs Cs premiums in the early years. It follows, I dont think  
StAIP treated  Mrs C unfairly. 
the later years
Mrs C says she was happy with the premiums in the early years. But was concerned that, in the later 
years, the premiums rose significantly. 
As explained  earlier, an insurer isnt necessary doing  anything wrong by changing the premium each 
year at renewal  and this can happen for a number  of reasons.
Each insurer, in determining its policys  costs, is entitled to form its own view of risk regarding things 
such as flooding.  And from this, it decides  the costs  associated with the risk. Insurers often use 
independent organisations  approved by the Association  of British  Insurers to help determine various 
risk ratings  associated with properties or areas. 
Insurers will typically, over the years, revisit  and reassess the risk  using more  up to date and refined  
models. If an insurer thinks theres a greater risk than before, the premium will increase accordingly  
theres nothing wrong with this.
Ref: DRN46938596StAIP says the later increases in Mrs Cs premiums were for risk related reasons. And it has 
explained it increased  the cost to match the perceived  risk. 
StAIP has provided  evidence  of the perceived  risk cost it associated with insuring Mrs Cs property.  
Having looked at the evidence I can see that there were  steeper  increases in the later years,  which is 
in line with what StAIP has said about reassessing the risks presented to it by its consumers in 2015 
and 2017. And I can see that the increases in Mrs Cs premiums mirror those  increases  in the 
perceived risk cost.  
So, from what  Ive seen, there seem to be legitimate risk related  reasons for the premium  increasing 
in the later years. 
I do understand why Mrs C is unhappy, her circumstances havent changed  but her premiums 
increased. But StAIP  reassessed the risk all its consumers presented, so I cant say that Mrs C was 
singled out or treated  any differently. And StAIP, as explained above,  is entitled to reassess the 
potential risk in insuring  Mrs Cs property each year. While it may not have reassessed the risk in the 
earlier years, doesnt mean that it was wrong  for it to do so at a later date. I appreciate Mrs C might 
not agree with StAIPs risk assessment but ultimately  it is StAIPs decision as to how much risk a 
property represents and in turn the cost it sets for the insurance each year. 
Mrs C thinks  because she got a policy with another insurer for a lot less, this shows she was 
overcharged by StAIP. Again, I do understand why Mrs C thinks this and why she thinks she may 
have been overcharged over the years  she held the policy.
 
The alternative home insurance Mrs C obtained through an alternative provider  may be cheaper, and 
there could  be a number of reasons for that. Its not uncommon for insurers  to use different pricing 
and risk models over time. For example  Mrs Cs new insurance provider may not place the same  risk 
on the property as StAIP  did. But importantly  that doesnt mean StAIPs perceptions of the risks were 
incorrect or that it treated Mrs C unfairly. 
Also, the new insurance Mrs C got would  have  most likely  been heavily discounted. As I have 
explained above, I think its fair that an insurer recoups that discount over the subsequent years.  I 
dont think its fair to expect an insurer to maintain that discount  for the duration someone has their 
policy. So the new policy Mrs C obtained, while cheaper at the outset, is likely  to increase in price  as 
well.
So I dont think it is fair to compare the policy Mrs C initially took out with StAIP with the new 
insurance taken many  years later with a different provider.
my provisional  decision
As it stands,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4693859