K821x#15complaint
Mr M and Ms H are unhappy China Taiping Insurance  (UK) Co Ltd has declined  their claim 
on their buildings  insurance policy for storm damage.
background
Mr M and Ms H made  a claim on their buildings insurance for storm damage.  They say some  
slates slipped and others blew off their roof and there  was water damage to the upstairs  of 
their home after a storm.  
Mr M and Ms Hs roofer recommended  replacing  the entire front of their roof. They  agreed to 
this work, which it seems started before China Taipings loss adjuster had seen the damage.
China Taiping declined Mr M and Ms Hs claim.  A letter  from its loss adjuster said weather  
records available for their postcode area on and around the reported date of loss didnt 
support a claim for storm conditions. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M and Ms H brought  their complaint to us. The investigator  who 
looked at it upheld it. She thought there was a storm on the night Mr M and Ms H say the 
damage occurred. She also thought the damage to the roof was consistent with a storm, 
which was the dominant  cause  of the damage. 
China Taiping disagrees. As well as saying there wasnt a storm, its also said more  recently 
Mr M and Ms Hs roof was defective.
So Mr M and Ms Hs complaint came  to me to decide.
my provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision,  I said: I intended  to uphold Mr M and Ms Hs complaint 
and I set out my reasons  as follows:.
Mr M and Ms Hs policy covers their home for damage caused  by a storm (although their 
policy doesnt give a definition of what storm  means). 
When looking at storm damage claims we ask three questions:
Were there storm conditions on or around  the date of the claim?
Is the damage  consistent with storm damage?
Were the storm  conditions the main cause  of the damage?
If the answer  to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed.
So Ive firstly looked at whether there were storm conditions on or around the date              
Mr M and Ms H say the damage occurred. From  internal records  we have from China 
Taiping, it seems when  Mr M and Ms H first notified  it of their loss they referred to a storm in 
September 2018. Subsequently Mr M and Ms H have said the storm that caused the 
damage was in October 2018. And I can see they had an invoice for £200 from their roofer  
for some temporary repairs  to the roof at this time.  So, like China Taiping, its the October  
date Ive looked at to decide if there were storm conditions.
Ref: DRN48512242Ive then looked at the EuroTempest weather report that our investigator used in her 
investigation. Like her, I can see that on the night  in question  it describes a dry storm 
event. Although  China Taiping doesnt  think the wind gusts on the night always  constitute a 
storm, I disagree.  My view is  a storm generally  involves violent winds,  usually with rain, hail 
or snow. From the EuroTempest report, I think the weather conditions mean there  was a 
storm in the area of Mr M and Ms Hs home on the night in question.  That means  the answer 
to question one is yes.
So Ive looked  secondly at whether the damage Mr M and Ms H have claimed for is 
consistent with storm damage. Ive seen photos  of broken tiles on the ground and slipped 
tiles on the roof. I think this is damage  consistent  with violent winds  from the storm. And I 
think the internal  water  damage Mr M and Ms H are claiming for is consistent  with rainwater 
leaking in from the roof. That means the answer  to question two is yes.
So Ive looked  thirdly at whether the storm was the main or dominant  cause  of the damage 
Mr M and Ms H are claiming for. Although the reason China Taiping gave Mr M and Ms H for 
declining their claim was that there wasnt a storm, more recently  its also said their roof was 
defective. This is something  the loss adjusters report  also refers to  he mentions  a claim for 
roof repairs  made in January  2018  and also problems Mr M and Ms Hs neighbours may 
have had with their roofs. And he says this indicates that the roof may have been defective  
in some way. But because the roof had been  stripped  by the time of the loss adjusters 
inspection, he couldnt inspect the external damage (he did see the internal damage).
I appreciate the loss adjuster was in a difficult position because he couldnt inspect the 
damage to the roof. But I think the conclusion he reached in his report  was quite speculative.  
Theres no engineers  report to support it. And in January 2018, when Mr M and Ms H made 
their first claim for storm damage,  the same firm of loss adjusters accepted the claim having 
inspected the damage to the roof. Theres nothing in its report then saying the roof was 
defective. 
China Taiping says the fact that the roof was stripped indicates a more  serious  defect than 
is likely  to be caused by sub-storm conditions.  But thats an assumption not backed up by 
any evidence. And in any case, as Ive said, I think the conditions were storm conditions.  
And from what Ive seen, its only the front of the roof that has been damaged, not the whole 
roof. Ive also seen  photos from Mr M showing broken tiles on the ground, slipped ridge tiles 
and water damage inside  Mr M and Ms Hs home. These lead me to think  its more likely 
than not that the storm was the dominant  cause of the tiles slipping and/or falling off the roof 
and of the water damage inside. That means  the answer to question  three is yes.
Based on these three answers I think China Taipings decision to decline Mr M and Ms Hs 
claim was unreasonable.
I now have to decide what compensation I think it would be fair and reasonable to direct 
China Taiping to pay to put Mr M and Ms H in the position theyd have been  in had it 
assessed their claim as it shouldve from the beginning. This is difficult  because, at the 
moment, I have very limited information  about  the damage to the roof or of the cost of the 
internal repairs Mr M and Ms H have had done. If Mr M and Ms H or China Taiping have any 
further evidence  or information they can give me about these things, it would  be helpful if 
they could send it in to me.
Ref: DRN48512243But as things stand,  and from the information  I have at the moment,  I think  China Taiping should:
Reimburse Mr M and Ms H for their roofers invoice of £200 for the temporary repairs 
carried out on 13 October 2018.  
Reimburse Mr M and Ms H for the costs  of repairing the internal water damage  to the 
upper parts of their home. As Ive said, it would be helpful if Mr M and Ms H could give 
me some  indication  of the work that has taken place  and the costs involved  and, if 
they have invoices or receipts, Id be grateful if they could let me have  copies. 
Make a contribution of £700  to the cost of replacing Mr M and Ms Hs front roof, which  I 
understand was around £3,264. I say this on the basis of the few photos Ive seen of the 
damage  which  suggest the roof was largely  intact  as well as from the details Mr M 
and Ms Hs roofer gave in his invoice for the temporary  repairs. But I should  emphasise 
that this is something I will look at again in the light of any new evidence  and information 
Mr M and Ms H and China Taiping can give me about  the roof damage.
Pay Mr M and Ms H £150  for the distress  and inconvenience it has caused  them.     Mr 
M says having  the claim  declined has been a stressful  and distressing experience. He 
says he hopes  things get resolved  soon so his home  can get back  to normal. I can 
understand why what has happened has been upsetting  and confusing for him and Ms 
H  especially when  they had a claim for similar damage  accepted previously. And thats 
why I think its fair and reasonable for China Taiping  to pay this compensation. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr M and Ms H have accepted my provisional  decision. Theyve also sent in a quotation  
from their painter and decorator for the internal repairs that are still needed to the upper 
parts of their home. 
China Taiping disagrees with my provisional  decision and has sent in some  further  
comments. In brief,  it doesnt think Mr M and Ms H have proved  their claim was caused by 
storm damage. Rather, it thinks  their roof was defective.
So Mr M and Ms Hs complaint has come  back to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  as well as considering  China Taipings 
most recent comments.
China Taiping says Mr M and Ms Hs earlier claim was settled on a desk top basis  and no 
representative from the insurer visited their home. So it says this doesnt set a precedent  for 
the later claim. When I made my provisional  decision, I didnt have this information  and I 
agree it doesnt  set a precedent. But it also doesnt change my conclusions.  For the reasons 
I gave in that decision, I think its more likely  than not the roof damage was caused by the 
storm conditions at the time rather than for any other reason,  such  as a defect.
China Taiping also says slipping tiles  which I referred to in my provisional  decision  isnt 
storm damage. I disagree. I think storm conditions can cause roof tiles to become dislodged.
Ref: DRN48512244China Taiping also says it doesnt think Mr M and Ms H have proven the damage  to their 
property is due to the storm. Again, I disagree. On the evidence  Ive got and as I set out in 
my provisional decision, I think Mr M and Ms H have shown the storm was most likely the 
dominant cause of the roof and other  damage  to their home.
Finally, China Taiping  says Mr M and Ms Hs builder  recommended and undertook stripping 
of the entire roof pitch, due to the roof defects .This in itself surely  shows  that the 
moderate-high winds at the time have  not actually caused "Storm"  damage  but have rather 
highlighted existing  defects. From the evidence Ive got, I dont  know  why Mr M and Ms Hs 
builder recommended stripping the front pitch.  In the absence of any evidence that the roof 
was defective,  it wouldnt  be fair and reasonable for me to assume it was because of existing 
defects. And, as Ive said in my provisional decision,  I do think  there  was a storm at the time 
the damage occurred  and that its likely this caused  the damage.  
Having looked  at everything, and for the reasons Ive given in my provisional  decision and 
here, I uphold Mr M and Ms Hs complaint.  I think that there  was a storm in their area around  
the date of their claim, the damage  Mr M and Ms H are claiming for is consistent with storm 
damage and storm conditions were the main cause of the damage.
my final decision
I uphold Mr M and Ms Hs complaint and direct China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd to:
Reimburse Mr M and Ms H for their roofers invoice of £200 for the temporary repairs 
carried out on 13 October 2018.  
Make a contribution of £700  to the cost of replacing Mr M and Ms Hs front roof. 
Pay Mr M and Ms H £150  for the distress  and inconvenience it has caused  them.  
Pay Mr M and Ms H for the costs of repairing  the internal water damage to the upstairs 
of their home.  Mr M and Ms H have sent us a quote  from their decorator  of £1,098 plus 
VAT for this work and that seems a reasonable cost to me.
China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd should  pay the first three  of the above  amounts to Mr M 
and Ms H within 28 days of us telling it theyve accepted  my final decision. If they dont, they 
should pay interest of 8% simple on these amounts from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 April 2020.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4851224