K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr T bought  the policy between 1996 and 2000 to cover a credit  card.  Due to the time that 
has passed, its not clear  how Mr T applied  for his credit card and PPI policy.  Mr T says the 
PPI was taken out via a postal application. Lloyds  has assumed the sale took place in 
branch and that advice was given to Mr T  as this would afford  him a greater level of 
protection when  looking  at the complaint.
At the time,  Mr T was employed as a bus or truck driver  depending  on exactly when  the 
sale took place.  He has told us he was entitled to statutory sick and redundancy pay and had 
some savings.  Mr  T has said he was in good health  other than having an operation  for 
blocked sinuses  in 1999, when he missed a few days work.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Ts credit  card balance in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost no more  than 79p per £100 of the monthly  
outstanding balance. The premium would continue to have to be paid during a successful 
claim and it did attract  interest.  
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account closed in 2006.
Mr Ts representative  has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ts representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr T wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ts representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr T about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr T and the impact they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and 
The information Mr T received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN43116402Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr T disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ts. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts complaint.
This sale took place  in between 1996  and 2000,  before the General Insurance Standards 
Council (GISC)  published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general 
insurance products  like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC  Code, the 
FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance  conduct rules 
(ICOB and ICOBs)  arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance 
(PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN43116403I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ts case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ts complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr T with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr T sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr T, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr T suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr T and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr T know he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ref: DRN43116404From what  we know about how Lloyds sold this type of PPI in branch and through  the post 
during the times Mr T may have been sold the policy, I think he wouldve been required to 
actively select the PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr T knew the policy was optional 
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds has assumed that advice was provided  during this sale. 
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr T with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr T. It seems Mr T cant remember clearly  what happened  and there is 
no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. The adviser likely had some 
limited information about  Mr Ts financial circumstances,  but there is no specific evidence to 
show the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr T would  have been  caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet his 
needs. For example,  there is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered whether Mr T had any 
pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I am not persuaded that Lloyds  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr T given his circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable  care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr T, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr T met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr T had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Ts ability to continue  to meet 
his credit card repayments  would  have been  put under strain  if he was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for statutory  sick and redundancy pay 
and savings he says he had.
-Although Mr T says he was financially stretched at the time,  Ive seen nothing else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr T. There was 
nothing about  Mr Ts employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult for 
him to claim. Regarding  pre-existing  medical conditions,  Mr T has told us about  
having an operation in 1999. But it is unclear if this was before the PPI was sold, and 
even if it was, I dont  think it made  the policy unsuitable, given theres nothing to 
suggest the operation didnt resolve the underlying  condition. There were  also no 
additional restrictions on cover  for back problems.
Ref: DRN43116405-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability, unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr Ts circumstances 
and the fact the policy could have cleared his outstanding card balance.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr T sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Lloyds was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr T was given a very broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect his card payments in the 
event he was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mr T would  have been told this  at the very least  during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mr T would  have  taken out the policy  without 
any sense of what the policy was. 
I am also satisfied Mr T would have realised  the policy wasnt free and its likely he would  
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mr T 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary 
Mr T might have  been given during a meeting, I think its more likely than not that he based 
his decision on the things he was told, rather than on anything  he was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied that the policy  was a suitable recommendation for Mr T, Im not persuaded Lloyds 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Mr T. Im not persuaded that Lloyds gave Mr T all of the information 
he needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ts representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ts. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ts representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
Ref: DRN43116406-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr T about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ts representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr T has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr T? To what extent did Mr T suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr T. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr T suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr T would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Lloyds took the steps  it should  have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr T, Ive found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr T has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mr T would have acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr T says he would not have taken  it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr T had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised him that there was a suitable  
product he could buy that would protect  his credit card payments in the event  he was unable  
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ts circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr T ought  reasonably to have known he would  have to 
pay something for the PPI. But, I accept that Lloyds didnt make clear  the on-going cost 
Ref: DRN43116407information. So while Mr T didnt  know some things, the ultimate position in the event of a 
successful claim  was not dissimilar to what he would reasonably have thought from the 
information he based his decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr T thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mr T 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy; 
The policy excluded claims relating to mental  health conditions and it contained 
limitations on claims relating to back conditions placing more onerous evidential  
requirements to support  a claim on those grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr T 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mr T pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude that the 
policy wasnt as good as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr T from taking out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr T says he had a medical  condition  in 1999  
and the policy wouldnt have provided  cover  had he needed time off work  because of this 
condition (assuming the policy was sold after this), I dont think  better  information  about this 
exclusion would have  put him off agreeing to it. I say this because theres nothing to suggest 
the operation  Mr T had in 1999  didnt  resolve the underlying condition.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  He wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think He had some  good reasons  to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems. In this case the 
policy excluded claims for mental health conditions and the steps required to make  a 
disability claim for back related conditions were more onerous than Mr T might  reasonably  
have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a disability claim 
without having  to provide some evidence to support  that claim. And while this exclusion and 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr T 
from taking out the policy,  Mr T, in his circumstances, still had some good reasons  to take it 
out.
To make a disability claim, Mr T needed to be totally unable to do his normal  job and not be 
doing any other work. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what he would have  
expected to make a claim. So it seems unlikely  he would have thought hed be able to make  
a successful claim if he was still working.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr T would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting, and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding his employment  benefits and savings. And in those 
Ref: DRN43116408circumstances I consider it more likely than not that he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.  
Mr Ts representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) make  
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr T would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ts 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr T 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr T believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr T in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Lloyds should pay Mr T compensation, as that would  put him in a better position 
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr T thinks  Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr T, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met 
between 1996  and 2000 when providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ts representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr T and about  the remedy a court 
Ref: DRN43116409might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr T in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2021.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4311640