K822xcomplaint
Mr Rs complaint against Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), concerns its 
response to his requests to raise  a chargeback and section 75 claim for faulty goods.
background 
In August  2018,  Mr R bought a bed from an ebay seller for £229. It was delivered, and 
assembled, but as it was a bed for the spare room, not slept in until December 2018. When it 
was first used it broke. 
Mr R complained to Halifax and asked it to raise  a chargeback. When  he provided the 
evidence required Halifax said it didnt meet the criteria for the chargeback   specifically that 
it couldnt be shown  that the bed was faulty at the point of supply in August 2018. 
Mr R asked Halifax to raise  a section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 to 
recover his money for the broken bed. But as hed bought it on ebay using an e-money 
service, the debtor-creditor-supplier link required to be eligible  for section 75 cover was 
broken. As such, no section 75 claim could be made.
Halifax did agree  that Mr R hadnt received  the level of customer  service he was entitled to 
expect from it. Having  to call and contact it repeatedly. In all, it paid him £210  compensation 
plus call costs for this.
Mr R remained  unhappy, and brought his complaint  to our service. 
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and concluded  that Halifaxs  only mistake, or failing, 
had been in respect of its customer service lapses, and she felt it had already paid sufficient 
compensation for this.
She explained that in respect  of the chargeback and section 75 claim, Halifax  had acted 
correctly and hadnt made any mistakes.  
Mr R didnt agree, so the complaints come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see why Mr R would be frustrated that an item of furniture he bought 
and paid for in good faith turned out to be faulty. And that he felt Halifax  should be able to 
help him with that. 
However, the two mechanisms open to Halifax  namely chargeback and section 75  both 
turned out not to be appropriate or applicable. While  this is no doubt disappointing  to Mr R, 
and might not seem fair, my role is to ascertain if I think the advice Halifax gave, and the 
action it took or didnt  take, was correct.  And I think it was.
Im not persuaded the chargeback would have  succeeded. Mostly  because of the lapse of 
time between delivery of the bed, and the fault manifesting. While I quite understand how 
Ref: DRN46003842this delay occurred,  it does present an undeniable evidential problem for Mr R. So I dont  
think Halifax made a mistake in not proceeding with the chargeback.
In respect of the section 75 claim,  unfortunately what Mr Rs been advised about  the D-C-S 
link being broken is correct. Because of the manner in which  he paid for the bed, his credit 
card payment didnt  go directly from the creditor to supplier, as it would have to have done  
do for section 75 to come into play. 
What Mr R should be entitled to is protection from the e-money  service  he used. This is the 
one his credit card paid,  and then passed the money  on to the supplier. I understand Buyer 
Protection is offered  by this service, and Im not aware if thats  been  attempted?
I do acknowledge that Mr R had to put a lot of effort into pursuing this complaint, and that on 
more than one occasion Halifaxs level of service  wasnt  good enough. But I think  the £210, 
plus costs, that hes already received  is fair and sufficient compensation for this.
Im sorry  this isnt the decision  Mr R was hoping for, but I hope Ive explained why I think its 
the only fair one I can reach. And my role is to reach  an outcome thats fair to both parties.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint on the customer  service ground, but 
that I dont  require Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to increase the compensation its 
already paid  namely £210  plus costs.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4600384