K821x#15complaint
Ms I says that Uncle Buck Finance LLP was irresponsible to lend her money. Ms I wants  
Uncle Buck  to refund the interest and charges that she paid.
background
Ms I took out two instalment  loans with Uncle Buck between August  2015 and January 2018. 
A summary  of her lending history is as follows:
Loan one taken in August 2015  for £500. It was to be repaid over three monthly  
payments of around £250
Loan two taken in January 2018 for £400.  It was to be repaid over six months with 
the highest instalment of £119.
Ms I says she was in a difficult  financial situation  borrowing from multiple  short term lenders 
and wasnt able to keep up with her priority payments. 
The adjudicator recommended that Ms Is complaint be upheld in part. He didnt think  that 
Ms I could afford to repay loan one in a sustainable way. Ms I declared a monthly  income of 
£1,256 with outgoings of £950. The adjudicator didnt think that this left Ms I with enough  
disposable income after shed repaid Uncle Buck around £250.
The adjudicator thought  that based on the information Ms I gave to Uncle Buck  before 
agreeing the second loan, it wasnt irresponsible of Uncle  Buck to agree to lend.
 
Uncle Buck  doesnt  agree  with the adjudicators recommendation. Uncle Buck  says that it 
gave Ms I a choice of ranges to include  when  she completed her expenditure information. 
Uncle Buck  says that it took the highest value which means this added  in a buffer.
Uncle Buck  says that this service hasnt indicated  what  we consider to be a suitable  buffer. 
Uncle Buffer says that its likely that Ms I wouldve been in receipt  of tax credits and child 
benefit. Uncle Buck suggests that some  of this other income wouldve allowed Ms I to cover 
any additional unforeseen expenses.
Ms I doesnt  agree  with the adjudicators  recommendation in relation to loan two. She 
doesnt think that Uncle Buck carried out adequate affordability checks. Ms I wants me to 
consider the credit report that she has sent to us.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Uncle Buck  was required to make  sure Ms I could  repay any money that it lent to her in a 
sustainable way. Any checks had to be proportionate to things  such  as the amount of the 
loan, the repayments and any borrowing history. But there wasnt a set list of checks  Uncle 
Buck had to carry out.
Ref: DRN40190842Uncle Buck  has given us evidence  to show that it asked Ms I about her monthly income and 
outgoings each  time.  
loan one 
Ms I was due to pay Uncle Buck about  £250  each month. Ms I told Uncle Buck  that her 
monthly income was £1,256 with outgoings  of £915. This left her with a disposable income  of 
£341. 
Although this mightve been just enough to afford to loan one, Ms I was only left with £91 
after making each  repayment. If Ms I had any unexpected expenses  even relatively minor 
ones  shed have been left with no disposable  income at all. 
I appreciate what Uncle  Buck says about Ms I having access to other  income that she could 
fall back on in case of an emergency. Even if this is true, I also weigh  up the fact that Ms I 
says she was a single mother.  So it seems  entirely possible that Ms I would face particularly 
difficulties if she had any additional expenses. I dont consider it reasonable to say that Ms I 
wouldve been able to use benefits  intended to help with child costs  to pay for unexpected 
living costs  or financial  commitments.  
It follows that I agree with the adjudicators recommendation to uphold  Ms Is complaint 
about loan one.
loan two
Uncle Buck  has given us evidence  that it asked Ms I about her income, living costs  and 
regular credit commitments. 
Based on the information that Ms I gave Uncle Buck, it looked as though  she was left with 
over £170  each month after making  her monthly  repayment. I agree with the adjudicator that 
this was enough to say that Ms I could  afford  to repay loan two in a sustainable way.
The credit search that Uncle Buck carried out didnt reveal any defaults in the past 12 
months and there were no judgments  recorded  against Ms I. It also showed that Ms I hadnt 
opened any credit  accounts within the previous six months. I dont consider that the search 
results shouldve reasonably prompted  Uncle Buck to ask more  questions than it did. 
I should also say that a lenders search doesnt always  show the same level of information 
that a borrower  can see on their own credit report.  This means that the credit report that Ms I 
has asked me to consider doesnt  change  my decision. 
Although I appreciate that Ms Is financial  situation mightve been worse than shed disclosed 
to Uncle  Buck, I dont  think what I consider to have  been proportionate checks  wouldve 
revealed this. 
Given the significant break between repaying loan one and taking  out loan two, I consider 
that Uncle Bucks checks went far enough.  I dont uphold Ms Is complaint about loan two.
putting things right
To put things right Uncle Buck  should:
Ref: DRN40190843Refund any interest and charges paid on loan one;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
Remove any negative  information recorded about loan one from Ms Is credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Ms I a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Ms Is complaint in part and direct Uncle Buck  Finance LLP to 
put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4019084