K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold  them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out with a mortgage in 2008. 
Mr and Mrs H applied for the MPPI over the phone.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  because I dont think  Santander  gave Mr 
and Mrs H clear  enough  information about the policy.  I say this because  Mrs H had medical 
conditions which wouldnt have been covered  one of which  had previously led to her not 
being able to work for more than two years. So they couldnt have claimed  on the policy for 
everything they expected to be able to.
I dont think Mr and Mrs H wouldve bought the policy  if Santander had given them enough  
information about it. So, I think Mr and Mrs H have lost out because of what Santander did 
wrong. 
Ive taken into account Santanders comments,  including what  it said about the exclusion of 
the medical conditions being highlighted to Mr and Mrs H during the sales process. But 
Santander hasnt  been able to provide  evidence  from the time of sale which persuades me 
that Mr and Mrs H wouldve been given enough information to make  an informed decision.  
The document provided is from sometime  before  the sale took place, and the information  it 
prompts the salesperson  to give does not match how the exclusion worked in Mr and Mrs 
Hs policy. So I still think I should uphold the complaint.
what the business should  do to put things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs H in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken  out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs H the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.  
If Mr and Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
Ref: DRN40137832 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 June  2019. 
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4013783