K820x#14complaint
Ms T has complained that, when she was notified  by Santander UK Plc that her Stocks  and 
Shares ISA was due to mature  on 21 November 2016, it offered to give her advice on 
options for reinvesting the proceeds  of almost £21,000. 
But her local branch of Santander couldnt offer her an appointment until 16 November 2016 
- one day before the deadline for providing it her instructions - at which  its representative 
said it couldnt offer her a better investment  than an ISA shed  previously been  sent,  which 
wasnt suitable.
So, Ms T visited  the local branch of another bank  (Business B) later that day to arrange a 
transfer her Stocks and Shares ISA to a Cash ISA in time to retain the tax benefits. 
As it was, Business B completed her transfer request using a form for a Cash ISA transfer, 
entered the wrong number for her ISA and sent the form to the wrong address of Santander. 
This paperwork didnt  reach Santander  by the transfer deadline and Ms T made  a complaint 
against Business  B about it role in this matter  which has been  resolved separately.
In the event, on receipt of Ms Ts transfer request form, the receiving office  of Santander  
wrote to Ms T on 23 November 2016  inviting her to re-submit her transfer  request  with the 
correct account  number. But the office  of Santander  which administered  Stocks  and Shares 
ISA transfers simultaneously wrote to her on 24 November  2016 transferring the value of her 
ISA to a savings account shed previously nominated because she hadnt given instructions 
to reinvest the maturity  value of her ISA in time.
Ms T says she always intended to reinvest her ISA proceeds in another ISA and Santanders 
actions caused  her to miss the deadline for providing her instructions. As she utilises  her ISA 
allowance every year, shes requested compensation  for the higher rate tax benefits  shes 
lost indefinitely each  year on £21,000.  
background
In mid-October 2016, Santander wrote to Ms T notifying her that her Stocks  and Shares ISA 
was due to mature  on 21 November 2016.
Her options were  to reinvest the maturity value in a similar account  over a fixed  term of four 
years. If she didnt want to reinvest  the ISA proceeds, or she failed to provide any 
instructions, the maturity  value would automatically be transferred to a nominated  account 
given on the accompanying Maturity Option Form.
Additionally, Santander set out important information  about her ISA, as follows:
As you maturing investment is an ISA or an ISA (ex PEP), youll lose the tax benefits  
associated with your ISA if you dont provide with your instructions before the date stated 
above and your money is removed from the plan.  You can either reinvest  in the Santander 
Growth Plan (Issue 72) or transfer all or part of your maturing  ISA to an ISA with us or to 
another ISA provider  to keep the tax benefits.  If youre interested  in transferring your ISA, 
please refer to page 9 of the enclosed Options for your maturing  investment  brochure.
Ref: DRN43707122The maturity  letter emphasised that Ms T needed to provide her instructions before 
17 November 2016; otherwise, the maturity value would be transferred to her nominated 
account. She was provided a telephone number to call to discuss  her options.
We understand from Ms T that she was advised  by Santander to see an investment 
consultant. But it seems it couldnt arrange an appointment  for her at her local branch until 
16 November 2016. In the event,  as she wanted to reinvest in a Cash  ISA, Santander didnt 
offer her an ISA with a competitive rate of interest other than one it had already provided her.
So Ms T immediately visited a local branch of Business B which offered a Cash  ISA paying a 
fixed rate of interest  of 1.5 per cent per annum. But its evident that, in completing the ISA 
transfer request,  Business B used a Cash ISA form, inserted an incorrect account  number  
for the transferring ISA and posted  the paperwork  to the Santander office which  
administered Cash ISA transfers.
Ms T duly received a letter from Santander dated 23 November 2016 confirming that the 
account number  quoted  on the transfer form wasnt an ISA and invited her to contact  
Business B to resubmit  her request with the correct account number.
But, in the meantime, Santander  wrote  to Ms T from its office  which administers Stocks  and 
Shares ISA transfers to confirm that, as it hadnt received her instructions,  the proceeds  of 
her ISA had been  credited on 23 November 2016 to the account nominated on her 
Maturity Options Form.
Accordingly, Ms T has lost the tax relief  at 40 per cent on the interest the maturity value of 
£21,000 would have given her had it been invested in a Cash  ISA with Business B.
In response, Santander rejected Ms Ts complaint. Briefly, it said that:
its maturity options  letter  stressed that Ms Ts instructions needed to be received 
before 17 November 2016; otherwise,  the proceeds of the ISA would be paid to her 
nominated account;
the delay in Santander receiving  her instructions was down to errors made by 
Business B in quoting an account number  on a Cash ISA transfer form, which went to 
the wrong office of Santander.  Ms T signed the transfer form confirming that the 
information therein  was correct;
the delay in getting an appointment to see a Santander advisor  didnt help, especially 
as the appointment wasnt necessary. As such,  its service fell below the level it would 
expect and it was content to offer Ms T £150 for the wasted visit to her local branch.
This complaint was investigated by one of our adjudicators, who agreed  in principle with 
Santanders view.  He did, however, feel that a further payment  for the trouble  and upset 
Ms T suffered was due because she received a letter dated 23 November 2016 advising her 
to resubmit the transfer request through Business B with the correct  ISA number. But, on 
24 November 2016, she was informed that her request had been  received too late and the 
ISA proceeds had been credited to her nominated account. If she had been given sufficient 
time to resubmit her transfer request, she could have retained  her tax benefits.  So, he 
thought a further £200 was appropriate.
In response, Santander didnt agree that further compensation was merited.  Business B sent 
the transfer form to the wrong  office of Santander. Even if it had been sent to the correct 
team, it would still have  been received after the deadline of 17 November 2016. The letter 
Ref: DRN43707123Ms T received dated 23 November 2016  was irrelevant because the ISA had matured two 
days earlier. In any event, the office  that received the transfer form would  not have known 
the investment  was a Stocks and Shares ISA.
None of the errors in the transfer process  was made  by Santander. Ms T had five weeks  to 
decide on a suitable investment and complete the paperwork. She didnt need to see an 
investment adviser  as the maturity letter explained  all the options  that enabled her to make a 
fully informed decision. But she delayed matters until the day before the deadline.
The adjudicator considered the points made by Santander but wasnt inclined  to change his 
view. Ms T says she did require advice  and couldnt  make an appointment at her local 
branch of Santander until 16 November 2016.  As Santander has already offered £150 for 
her trouble  and inconvenience, it accepts it wasnt blameless. If this delay hadnt  occurred,  
the chances are that Ms T could still have completed the transfer in time.
Also, the letter from Santander dated 23 November 2016 gave  her the impression that the 
transfer was held, pending receipt  of a transfer form with the correct account  number. It gave  
her the impression that she had time to resubmit her transfer request. Accordingly,  he felt 
Santander should pay Ms T a total of £300 for the trouble and upset shes  experienced in 
this matter.
Santander still disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and said that:
   
there was no need for Ms T to see an investment adviser - she could have called the 
telephone number on the maturity  letter to discuss her options. She could have also 
checked Santanders website or visited another branch for advice. Santander cant 
be responsible  for Ms T taking five weeks to decide  how she wished to reinvest  the 
maturity value of her ISA;
it was Business B that sent the ISA transfer request to the wrong Santander office,  
with an incorrect account number  on it. The Cash ISA transfer team would not have 
known the investment  was, in fact, a Stocks and Shares ISA and understandably 
asked Ms T to check  the account  number of the investment  she wanted to transfer.  
Neither error was made by Santander and Ms T would  have  known that her ISA had 
matured two days before she received the letter;
Santander has an entire branch network  so, if one particular  branch  doesnt have an 
advisor available,  there were  other  branches Ms T could have  attended. Otherwise, 
she could have  called its telephone  team to talk through her options;
the onus was on Ms T to decide how she wished  to proceed and she does appear to 
have left matters to the very last minute.
On reflection, the adjudicator agreed that £150 for the time taken to arrange  an appointment 
at her local branch  was fair and reasonable. 
Ms T responded to say that:
  
she had not given Santander details  of her nominated account  she still retain the 
form for this;
for a non-ISA investment, she would have had to pay tax at 40 per cent on interest  of 
£630 each year indefinitely. So, the offer from Santander of £150 is derisory;
there was no delay in visiting  another bank  once Santander advised  her on 
16 November 2016 that it didnt offer a suitable  product;
Ref: DRN43707124both businesses involved  in this transfer process  are culpable and liability  should be 
shared.
While the adjudicator accepted that Santander  didnt offer Ms T an appointment until 
16 November 2016, this shouldnt have prevented her approaching other providers in the 
meantime, as there was nothing in the maturity  letter  that suggested she had to speak to an 
advisor before making her decision. 
Santander has apologised for the delay  in it giving her an appointment with an advisor and 
for the trouble and upset caused. But he doesnt  believe  its responsible  for Ms T losing the 
ISA wrapper. 
Once she left the Santander branch on 16 November 2016, she could have met the deadline  
once she decided to approach Business B. But, there were  errors in her transfer instructions 
that caused her to miss the deadline.
When Santanders Cash ISA team received the transfer form, it would have assumed Ms T 
wanted to transfer  a Cash ISA, so it wrote to tell her that the account number quoted wasnt  
an ISA. It didnt know it was a Stocks and Shares ISA she held that she wanted  to transfer. 
In the event, the Stocks and Shares ISA she did hold matured and, as Santander hadnt 
received any instruction with regard to this investment, its proceeds were paid to her nominated 
account. He didnt think Santander could be held responsible for this development.
In response, Ms T disagreed with the adjudicators  conclusions and said that:
she was assured by both Santander that there  was adequate time for the transfer of 
funds before it booked  the late appointment;
she reasonably  assumed the ISA transfer form would be sent electronically and could 
therefore meet the deadline;
she accepts Santander cant be wholly at fault in this process  and liability should be 
shared with Business B.
As no agreement can be reached  in this complaint, it has been referred to me for review.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should emphasise that this decision addresses the complaint Ms T has made with regard to 
Santanders role in the process of transferring the proceeds of her ISA. Her complaint 
against Business  B has been  addressed separately.
Ms T didnt provide her instructions to Santander in time to confirm how she wished to 
dispose of a Stocks and Shares ISA that was due to mature  on 21 November  2016.  
Accordingly, its maturity  value was transferred to a deposit account she had previously  
nominated and she, therefore, lost indefinitely the tax advantages  of investing in an ISA. The 
issue for me to consider  is whether, and the extent to which,  this financial loss can be 
attributed to the actions of Santander.
Ref: DRN43707125Santander wrote to Ms T in mid-October 2016  advising  her that an investment she held in a 
Stocks and Shares ISA wrapper was due to mature in five weeks time, on 21 November 
2016. The maturity  letter stressed that it must  receive her instructions as to how she wished 
to invest the proceeds  before 17 November 2016.  Otherwise, they would be paid to her 
nominated deposit  account. The options open to Ms T were  set out in that letter,  together  
with a telephone number  she could  call to discuss those options.
Santander gave  Ms T five weeks notice because it typically takes some time to arrange the 
surrender and reinvestment of an ISA; especially a Stocks and Shares ISA if its also 
requested to be transferred to another ISA manager. (HMRC Rules  allow up to 30 days  for 
the transfer of a Stocks and Shares to be completed.)
I must base my decision,  as far as possible,  on the evidence that exists. Where evidence  is 
lacking, I need  to exercise my judgment  on the balance of probabilities as to the version of 
events.   
It seems  to me that this complaint turns on the nature of the dealings and discussions Ms T 
had with Santander in the five weeks before it needed to receive her instructions. But I 
havent seen any evidence that tells me when Ms T first contacted  Santander, or what  was 
said in that telephone conversation.   
If, as Ms T says,  she explained to Santander that she wanted to continue receiving the tax 
benefits an ISA gave her but, this time, through a Cash ISA offering a guaranteed rate of 
interest, there was no need for her to receive investment advice. Cash ISAs are deposit-
based accounts, not investments, that dont need to be recommended by an individual 
authorised to give advice. But I dont know whether she was told precisely that at the time.  
What Ms T has said is that she was sent details of the Cash ISA Santander offered at the 
time, and found  its rate of interest poor. So, its difficult  for me to appreciate why she held 
out for a meeting  with an investment adviser on 16 November 2016, without looking at Cash  
ISA rates  offered by other providers, when she already  knew the rate offered by Santander  
was unattractive,  and the deadline for providing  her instructions to Santander was looming. I 
accept its conceivable  she was advised in October 2016 that Santander might offer a more 
competitive Cash ISA by then. 
But, in waiting until the day before the transfer deadline to see an adviser, without looking at 
Cash ISA rates other providers offered, or referring to Santanders website, Ms T was relying 
on Santander marketing  a more attractive  Cash ISA by then and on the transfer process  
being started immediately. Ive seen no evidence that Ms T had reason to believe Santander 
was about to launch a new  Cash ISA or that her transfer request would be processed 
electronically. By the time she visited the local branch of Business B she had left it too late.
Ms T has also said that Santanders  letter dated  23 November 2016 falsely  led her to believe 
that her transfer request  through  Business B could still be processed in time if she 
resubmitted her form with the correct account  number.
But, although Santander might be expected to have assumed Ms T held a Cash  ISA (given  
shes completed a Cash  ISA transfer  form), it wouldnt necessarily  have known it was a 
Stocks and Shares ISA, and one that had already matured on 21 November 2016 that 
required her to provide  transfer instructions before 17 November  2016.
Ref: DRN43707126So, given the office at Santander that administered  Stocks  and Shares ISA transfers hadnt 
received any instructions  from Ms T at all, it rightfully  wrote to her on 24 November 2016 to 
confirm that shed missed  the deadline and the value of her ISA had already been  credited to 
her nominated bank  account.
All things  considered, Ms T was provided all the information by Santander she required, and 
in good time,  to make a fully informed decision as to how she wished to reinvest the maturity 
value of her Stocks  and Shares ISA. I havent  seen sufficient evidence  that Santander 
prevented her for five weeks from reviewing all her options in time to retain  the tax 
advantage by reinvesting the proceeds  in a Cash ISA.     
decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
I do recommend that Ms T accepts the offer of £150  for the time Santander UK Plc took to 
arrange the meeting with an adviser  and for the disappointment she felt when told that 
Santander couldnt offer her a suitable  investment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4370712