K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  about the way Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  dealt with the sale of their 
house after it took possession. Mr and Mrs K dont  believe that its fair for the bank to be 
writing to Mrs K about the shortfall. Mrs K is ill and affected by the stress of all this. Mr and 
Mrs K would like BoS to write off the mortgage  shortfall. 
background
Mr and Mrs K had an interest-only mortgage  with BoS since 2006. But Mr Ks business  
suffered during the recession and they had financial difficulties including paying the 
mortgage. Mr K entered into a protected trust deed  in 2010. Mr and Mrs K tried to sell the 
property but werent  able to. In November 2012 BoS started proceedings to repossess the 
house and on foot of a Court Order repossessed the house in February 2013.  Mr K says that 
the house was valued by his Trustee at £500,000 in 2010 but BoS sold the house for 
£270,000 in March 2014.
Mr and Mrs K say that when BoS sold the house,  they were  told the shortfall was around 
£168,000 but they heard  nothing further from BoS until they both got letters from recovery 
agents last year. As Mr K was previously in a protected trust deed, BoS has said that it wont 
try to recover the shortfall from him. But Mrs K is only on a state pension and says she will 
be unable to pay off this debt. As BoS shouldnt  have  written to Mr K to recover the debt, it 
offered to pay him £250 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy at the price BoS got for their property. They  dont believe that 
there should be a shortfall or that BoS should  instruct recovery agents. Mr and Mrs K say 
that the whole episode  has caused  them stress  and had an effect  on Mrs Ks poor health.
BoS wrote  to Mr and Mrs K on 20 September  2018.  It accepted that it its agents shouldnt 
have written to Mr K but that it was within the timeframe of 5 years to look to recover  the 
shortfall debt from Mrs K. In the letter BoS says that it got two valuations and initially  
marketed the property at £400,000 in February 2013. BoS says that it had to reduce  the 
price because of the lack of offers. When it got what it says was an appropriate offer in July 
2013, the sale fell through  because of complications  with the title deeds. Eventually BoS 
says that the sale price  of the property  was reduced  on the advice  of BoSs  solicitors  and the 
sale completed in March 2014 for £270,000. BoS says that its entitled to ask Mrs K about 
arrangements to repay the shortfall and that the letters from its agents are appropriate.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs K felt 
that BoS hadnt maintained the house  which would account for the low price achieved.  But 
our adjudicator noted that any offers received over the period were  consistently lower than 
the asking price so he felt the condition of the property wasnt a factor. Our adjudicators 
view was that BoS had done nothing wrong.  Mr and Mrs K disagreed  and asked for a review.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN43268392I have taken sometime to deal with this complaint as I asked for further information from BoS 
which was relevant to my investigation. I note that Mr K spoke to one of our Ombudsman 
Managers and asked to speak to me about the complaint. I have listened to the call and the 
further points  that Mr K made during that call. My view is that I have sufficient  information  
before me to come  to a fair conclusion on this complaint. So, I believe that it will not assist 
me to have a phone conversation with any of the parties involved  including Mr K.
Following a Court Order in November  2012,  BoS took possession of the property in 2013 
and set about valuing and marketing the property. No doubt  both Mr and Mrs K and BoS 
hoped that with an early  and good  sale that there might only be a small shortfall left. 
Unfortunately the sale of the property took a year to complete. Rather  than the sale price 
being close to the original  valuation, it was substantially below that. I have  enquired as to 
why that is so and looked  at the correspondence flowing between BoS, its agents, valuers 
and solicitors.
There is a lot of correspondence on the file indicating that BoS actively  marketed the house 
to obtain the best price it could within a reasonable period. There  is a continuous review of 
the marketing  strategy  including review  of the performance of its agents. A review  of the 
valuation was carried out by its agent  on several occasions as the house  wasnt selling or in 
the early days attracting  viewings. In May 2013  a valuer suggested reducing the market  
price to £350,000.  It notes  that the property remained unsold because  of lack of buyers. In 
May also BoS got an offer of £265,000  which  it rejected  as too low. There  then followed 
negotiations with an interested party about  buying  the property at £325,000. 
That fell through and another  party  offered £320,000.  But this potential  sale broke down 
because of an issue which affected  the price  of the property.  The purchasers solicitors  
raised the issue that the piece of land on which the triple garage and driveway had been  built 
hadnt been transferred to Mr and Mrs K on the land registers title. The potential purchasers  
reduced their offer to £250,000 and when that wasnt accepted  by BoS they withdrew.
The issue  of this piece  of land continued  to be an issue in relation to the sale of the property. 
It seems  that the land on which  the triple garage and driveway was built hadnt been 
transferred from the developer. Further, the developers company had gone  into 
administration. An offer was made in October  2013 of £307,500 but then the offer was 
reduced by the purchasers because of the title issue to £250,000  in January 2014. 
At that stage a valuation was obtained  which  indicated  that the then market value was 
£310,000 but the potential market value - which was the value that the property was likely  to 
be in 90 days time - was £260,000. This indicated that if the property was not then sold,  its 
price could further deteriorate. At that stage the purchasers offered £270,000  which  was 
accepted by BoS.
I note that Mr K says that he wouldnt have built the triple  garage and driveway  on land that 
didnt belong  to him. Mr K has also sent me a number of maps  related to planning 
permission. None of these are Land  Registers  maps  and dont  show  me whats registered 
there. But both the intending purchasers solicitor and BoSs  solicitor  say that unfortunately 
the triple garage  and driveway were  built on land that according to the Land Registers still 
belonged to the developer and not Mr and Mrs K. I believe that it was reasonable for BoS to 
accept the advice of its solicitor and to adjust its valuation based on that advice. 
Unfortunately there was no easy solution to this problem  because the developers  firm had 
gone into administration.
Ref: DRN43268393Clearly the £270,000 offered by the eventual purchaser was a long way from £400,000. For 
that reason and to be fair to Mr and Mrs K Ive carefully considered  BoSs file and Mr and 
Mrs Ks comments. Mr and Mrs K have provided photographic evidence  about the condition 
of the property including the garden  grounds  which became overgrown after BoS took the 
property into its possession. There were  extensive gardens attached to the property and I 
note on BoSs files that the neighbours complained  about the state of the gardens and it 
seems that they werent adequately maintained  by BoS or its agents. 
But I have to consider  what  effect this would have on the price of the property. A qualified 
surveyor looked at the property in August 2013  and noted front lawn cut only.  Gardens and 
rear sections are overgrown But he notes that The property now looks  somewhat  tired 
externally, however these are cosmetic  matters and should not have a significant effect on 
its saleability.  As to why the house had not sold at that stage the surveyor says that the 
original valuation figures have proven  in hindsight to have been overly ambitious 
I also looked at the reviews of any viewings on the property but could find no evidence that 
any viewers were put off making an offer by the external appearance of the property. Mr and 
Mrs K say that the property may have sold better  had they remained in the house. Certainly, 
I expect the grounds  would have been better maintained. But the real issues  in the sale of 
this house appear  to have been  lack of market interest and then a legal problem, none of 
which would have been solved by Mr and Mrs K remaining in the house.
BoS had an active  strategy for the sale of the property but initially  the market wasnt 
interested in this property at the price at which it was offered for sale.  When  the price 
dropped and there was a prospective sale, a very serious legal problem with the title led to a 
delay in the sale and a fall in the price.  
But after giving careful consideration  to all this I am of the view that BoS took the appropriate 
action to obtain the best price that could be achieved in the circumstances. So, I cant fairly 
say that it was the fault of BoS that the sale price fell well below what  it was expected  to be 
when the house first came into its possession.
Unfortunately for Mrs K, BoS has looked to her for the shortfall  and she appears not to be in 
a great  position  to pay it. There  has been  a delay in BoS looking to recover this shortfall. 
BoSs agents wrote to Mr and Mrs K initially. BoS accepts that it shouldnt have written to Mr 
K. It offered to pay him compensation  of £250 which seems  fair. 
Although the contact  from BoSs agents may be unwelcome for Mrs K, it might be even 
worse had BoS tried to recover this shortfall at an earlier time when Mr and Mrs K were still 
trying to get on their feet after the possession  of the house. 
Mrs K owes  a debt to BoS and at this stage  BoS is entitled to see if it can recover  that debt. 
BoS is not outside the relevant time period  to do that. Although Mr K believes it should seek  
to recover the shortfall under indemnity insurance  cover, its not clear that this is available  
but n any case  the debt is primarily due by Mr and Mrs K. 
I note that the correspondence from the debt recovery agents asks for financial information 
from Mrs K to see if any plan to repay the debt is affordable. At this stage that seems  an 
appropriate request  to make and I cant see that BoS has done  anything wrong in trying  to 
explore whether any repayment plan is possible. So, for the above reasons I cant fairly  
uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN43268394my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 May 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4326839