K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold  her a buildings  and contents insurance 
policy. She said the policy was both inferior to, and more expensive  than, the policy shed 
held with a different provider beforehand. And she wants  the bank to refund her the 
difference in the price between those  policies.
background
Bank of Scotland sold Mrs M a buildings and contents insurance  policy  in 2013. Mrs M went  
on to renew that policy for a number of years afterwards. But in 2018 her son looked at it and 
compared it to Mrs Ms previous policy with another insurer.
He told Mrs M the policy Bank  of Scotland had sold her didnt have accidental damage or 
home emergency cover like her previous policy had included. And said it was more  
expensive too. So Mrs M complained.
She said shed been  paying  for an inferior product and wouldnt have been covered if shed 
needed to make a claim for accidental damage  or home emergency. She said she wouldnt 
have taken the policy out if shed  known what she was signing up for and, Bank  of Scotland 
had therefore  mis-sold  it.
Bank of Scotland explained  it wasnt able to investigate what had been discussed at the 
2013 sale because  of the amount of time that had passed. But it did say that Mrs M was 
provided with a 14 day cooling off period after it had sold the policy to her. And it said shed 
been provided with policy  documents each  year at renewal too. It also said Mrs Ms 
premiums had been calculated according to the level of cover shed required.  And said the 
increases in price  were  in line with changes to the banks general rates, and rates relating to 
specific postcode  areas.  So it didnt agree that it had mis-sold the policy. 
One of our investigators  has already  looked  into this complaint. He didnt think that 
Bank of Scotland had mis-sold Mrs Ms policy either. And he was satisfied that the bank had 
provided a reasonable explanation  for the increase  in the cost of the policy too. Our 
investigator didnt  think  that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. But Mrs M has disagreed  
with that. So as no agreement has been  reached, the complaint has now been passed  to me 
to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The sale of Mrs Ms policy
Mrs Ms policy was sold in branch  through an advised sale.  That meant  Bank of Scotland  
needed to make sure the policy itd recommended for Mrs M was suitable for her 
circumstances and needs at the time.
Unfortunately, Bank of Scotland only has limited information available from the 2013 sale 
and Mrs M doesnt recall much about  what happened at the time either.  I know  that Mrs M is 
frustrated by the lack of information available from the bank and thinks  more  weight should 
be given to her evidence because of that. But the sale took place  some  time ago and I dont 
Ref: DRN42949512think its unreasonable for either  side to have  limited information from, or recollection  of, it 
now. 
When evidence is inconclusive like it is here I have to make  a finding on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what I find is most  likely to have happened given all the available 
evidence and wider  circumstances.  Bank of Scotland has advised that Mrs Ms policy was 
sold via a particular  process it had in place at the time, and has provided a copy  of that 
process for this service to see. Mrs M doesnt  recall  much about the sale in 2013. So I have 
no reason to persuade me that Bank of Scotlands process wasnt  followed as advised.
From what  Bank of Scotland has provided,  it appears that a computer generated programme 
would have been used to produce a range of questions for Mrs M to answer.  Those 
questions ranged  from information about the type of property being insured, to the type of 
cover that Mrs M wanted for it. It would appear that the answers provided would have 
formulated the cover required  and, in turn, generated a quote. And if that quote was agreed 
to, an insurance policy  would have been  produced.  
As noted above,  Bank of Scotland needed to make  sure that policy  was suitable for Mrs M, 
but theres little evidence  or recollection  from either  side available  now about how it may 
have attempted  to do that. It is apparent that Mrs M owned a property at the time though and 
had taken out home insurance to cover  it previously. And its also apparent that Mrs M had 
taken out home insurance for a number of years  before Bank  of Scotlands involvement. So I 
think its reasonable to say that Mrs M had a need for a home insurance policy at the time.
Looking at the policy that was provided  by Bank  of Scotland,  I cant see that there were any 
unfair terms, limitations or exclusions that would have unduly effected  Mrs M or made it 
unsuitable for her circumstances. I acknowledge that the level of cover  it provided varied in 
places compared  to Mrs Ms previous home  insurance policy. But that variation can be seen 
in both lesser and greater amounts depending on what parts  of the two policies are 
compared. However, the bank didnt have a duty to compare the two policies. It had a duty to 
ensure that the policy it was selling was suitable for Mrs M. If Mrs M wanted the two policies 
to be compared  side by side, then the onus would have been on her to do that. 
Bank of Scotland has provided  copies of the welcome documents it says would have been 
provided to Mrs M following the sale. That included; a covering letting inviting Mrs M to 
check her policy information and directing her to get in touch with the bank if anything  was 
incorrect; a policy schedule setting  out details of the cover thatd been provided for her and 
listing accidental damage and home  emergency as not included,  and; an information sheet 
setting out the information  that had been  captured as part of drawing up Mrs Ms policy and 
providing details  about the 14 day cooling off period. 
Copies of the yearly  renewal documents Bank  of Scotland says would  have been  produced  
for Mrs M have been provided too. Whilst those documents vary in layout and language  over 
the years, they all set out the cover that was being  proposed for the following year. They  all 
invite Mrs M to review  her policy documents and check the cover being  offered was still right 
for her needs. And they all explain that Mrs M could contact the bank if she wanted  to 
discuss any aspects of the proposed cover, review her options, or if shed decided  to not 
renew. I cant see that Mrs M queried any aspects of her policy with the bank following those 
renewal documents  though. And the policy was optional, meaning Mrs M didnt have to 
renew it if she had concerns about  it being  inferior to what  shed had with another insurer.
Ref: DRN42949513For the reasons  given  above, Im not persuaded that the policy  Bank of Scotland was 
unsuitable for Mrs Ms circumstances and needs  at the time. And Im not persuaded that it 
was mis-sold. 
Separate to the above, I know that Mrs M is concerned about  what  may have happened in 
the event of her needing to make an accidental  damage or home emergency claim. But, 
fortunately, her concerns  about that are hypothetical. As far as Im aware Mrs M hasnt  made 
such a claim. And so although I appreciate her concerns, itd be unfair of me to consider or 
make a finding on something  which hadnt  actually taken place.
The cost of Mrs Ms policy
Mrs M is unhappy  with the cost of the policy Bank of Scotland sold, compared  to the cost of 
the policy shed  held before. The policy Mrs M held before was with a different provider 
though, and offered different levels of cover  again  in both greater and lesser amounts 
depending on what parts  of the policies were  compared.  So I dont think  it unreasonable that 
two different policies, by two different providers, came with two different prices.  
Bank of Scotland is entitled to choose  how it prices  its policies, and the nature of the 
insurance market means that different providers are likely  to have different ways of pricing  
policies. I can see that the price  of Mrs Ms policy rose over a period of five years  from 
£285 at the point it was sold in 2013, to £458  at the point it was last up for renewal in 2018. 
But the price of Mrs Ms policy was set out in both the initial welcome documents  and the 
yearly renewal documents thereafter. And Mrs M wasnt  required to have a policy with 
Bank of Scotland. So if she was unhappy  with its price either at the time of the sale or at 
renewal she could have  chosen to reject  it.
Bank of Scotland has told this service  that Mrs Ms claims  history  didnt affect  the price of the 
policy because shed  made no claims. But its said a number of other factors affected its 
price of it over the years  such as changes  in rates for specific postcodes and changes to 
its general rates. I dont  think thats an unreasonable explanation as to why the price of the 
policy had increased.  And I cant see that Bank  of Scotland has treated Mrs M unfairly  here.
I dont know what Mrs Ms previous policy would have cost today had she stayed with her 
previous provider. But even if I did, and even  if it were cheaper than the policy  
Bank of Scotland had both sold and provided for a number of years,  Im not persuaded that 
would mean  Bank of Scotland had mis-sold it. I say this because Bank of Scotland  was 
entitled to choose how it priced its policy, and Im satisfied that its provided a reasonable 
explanation as to why the cost of its policy  increased  over a number of years. 
I do, of course,  fully appreciate that Mrs M is unhappy with that price. But its important to 
remember once again that it was an optional  policy, and if Mrs M was unhappy with either its 
original price or the price of it at each subsequent renewal, she didnt have to keep it.
I realise that Mrs M will be disappointed by my findings. But for the reasons given above  Im 
not persuaded that Bank of Scotland mis-sold this policy. So I wont  be asking  it to do 
anything. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN42949514Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4294951