K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out to cover a 
credit card that started  in 1994.  Mr M says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Understandably, given how much times passed  since the sale, Lloyds hasnt been able 
to provide a copy  of Mr Ms PPI application.  But, taking into account sample paperwork 
Lloyds has provided, and from experience of how it generally sold PPI during this period, 
I believe Lloyds made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose 
to take it out. I can see why he might not remember that now all this time later.
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr M it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, it doesnt appear he was affected  by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the 
PPI cover and he seems to have  had a need for the cover even taking into account his 
employers sick pay and his limited savings.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But I think it likely  he chose  to take it out  so it looks  like he wanted  this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mr Ms lost out because  of how Lloyds sold 
him the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4084727