K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about an interest-only  mortgage  Ms H holds with Kensington Mortgage 
Company Limited.  Ms H says interest-only is unsuitable for her and Kensington is to blame  
for her not being able to pay the mortgage  off and still own the property.
background
Ms H took the mortgage out in 2006; it was arranged by an intermediary  Ill call T. T 
submitted an application  to Kensington for an interest-only mortgage, and Kensington 
approved the application.  During the time shes had the mortgage, Ms H has rented  the 
property out from time to time; its not clear if shes renting it out presently, but its not where 
she currently lives.
In recent  times, Ms H has become concerned about  how she can repay the mortgage  
without selling the property. She made  an enquiry of Kensington to find out how much the 
mortgage would cost her per month  if she switched it to repayment. After finding  out it would 
increase her payment by over £300,  Ms H decided she couldnt afford it. 
Ms H complained that the mortgage had been  mis-sold.  Kensington explained that T had 
sold the mortgage; it had simply lent the money  as requested. T is no longer trading and 
Ms H was directed towards the Financial Services Compensation Scheme if she wanted  to 
pursue a mis-selling complaint. Ms H has continued to bring  the complaint against 
Kensington, maintaining that T was, in effect,  Kensingtons  in-house broker, making 
Kensington responsible for Ts actions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
news for Ms H. 
When a lender receives a mortgage  application via an intermediary, its not required to 
duplicate the intermediarys role. As Ms Hs broker, T arranged the mortgage on her behalf. 
Kensingtons role was to decide  if and on what terms it was willing  to lend. Its that simple, 
and the fact that both T and Kensington  were both owned by the same parent company 
doesnt change  that. Just because she had to go through T to apply to Kensington, that 
doesnt make Kensington responsible for Ts actions in selling her the mortgage.
The mortgage was arranged on a non-advised basis; that means  neither  T nor Kensington 
recommended the interest-only mortgage as being  suitable for Ms Hs needs and 
circumstances in 2006. It was for Ms H to consider  the terms of the mortgage Kensington 
had offered her (details of which were  set out in the offer in a format approved by the 
regulator) and make her own decision on whether  it suited her.
Kensington had a duty to lend responsibly  by making sure the mortgage was affordable. The 
available evidence doesnt point to Kensington having failed in that duty in 2006; in any 
event, the complaint here isnt that Kensington provided an unaffordable  mortgage. Its that 
Kensington provided an interest-only mortgage, but as Ive said,  Kensington played no part 
in Ms H choosing that option.
Ref: DRN48943272If Ms H is concerned that switching to repayment  might be too expensive,  she might want to 
consider obtaining specialist advice  about all the options available  to her. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint, or make  
any order or award against Kensington Mortgage  Company Limited.  My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4894327