K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold  them  a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out with a mortgage in 1993. Mr and Mrs L paid a 
monthly premium for the policy.
Both the mortgage  and PPI were in Mr and Mrs Ls joint names.  The PPI policy covered 
them for accident, sickness and unemployment. The monthly  benefit  would have  covered  
Mr and Mrs Ls monthly mortgage payments. It was split equally between  Mr and Mrs L. So if 
either of them  had made a successful claim on the policy, it would have paid 50% of the 
monthly benefit. And it would have done  this for up to two years  per successful claim for 
accident or sickness, and for up to a year per successful claim for unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs L say they were unaware that a PPI policy had been sold to them. Halifax  
hasnt been able to provide a copy of Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage  or PPI applications. This 
is understandable given  the time thats  passed  since the sale took place. But it means  
theres little evidence about how PPI was presented to Mr and Mrs L. Where  the 
evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need  to decide what I thinks  most likely  based  
on the information I have. In this case, I dont  think it would be fair to decide that Halifax  
didnt give them a fair choice in taking  out PPI. This is because Im not convinced that its 
more likely than not that the PPI wasnt presented to Mr and Mrs L as optional.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs L. This means  it had a responsibility 
to check that it was suitable for them. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on 
what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time.
Ive borne in mind  that Mr and Mrs L have told us that they both had secure jobs, and 
would have been entitled to some pay from their employers if theyd been off sick, or 
made redundant. But if theyd made  a successful claim on the PPI for accident, sickness  
or unemployment, it would potentially have  paid out for significantly longer than theyve 
told us theyd have  received payments  from their employers. Whats more,  the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to any payments  Mr and Mrs L received from their employers. 
So they could  have used those to meet  other day-to-day expenses.  And they wouldnt 
have had to use their savings to make their monthly mortgage  payments.
Ref: DRN45317292I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs L have also told us that their families could have helped 
them financially if necessary. But circumstances can change,  and I cant be sure that 
Mr and Mrs Ls relatives would have been  in a position to help them  if the need had 
arisen.
Taking everything into account,  I think the PPI could have been useful to Mr and Mrs L. 
The mortgage was a significant, long-term  financial commitment, secured on their home, 
and the consequences of not keeping up with their mortgage  payments could have been 
serious.
It may be that Halifax could have  explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. But 
the policy was competitively  priced,  and given  the cover that it provided, I think its likely 
that Mr and Mrs L would still have bought it even if theyd  had better information about  
the cost.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover   for example, 
unusual employment  arrangements,  or existing medical conditions. But based on what  
theyve told us about their circumstances at the time, its unlikely  Mr and Mrs L would 
have been affected  by any of these. So I dont think better  information would have put 
them off taking out the PPI.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ls comments,  including what  theyve said about having 
been young and nave  when they took the mortgage  out. But they were confident enough  to 
be taking out a serious, long-term financial commitment.  The policy provided them  with 
valuable cover, and Ive seen nothing to make  me think that Mr and Mrs L werent given a 
choice about whether  to take it. So this doesnt  change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 November 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4531729