K821x#15complaint
Mrs H and her husband, Mr G complain that Aviva  Insurance Limited  provided  poor service  
and dealt badly  with a claim made by another driver on Mrs Hs motor  insurance policy.  
background
Mrs H and Mr G told us that in May 2017,  their daughter  reversed their car off their driveway  
into the road. She had just come  to a stop when a car travelling along the road collided with 
it. Mrs H and Mr G said there  was only minor  damage to the other  drivers  car and that she 
was able to drive it away. They say the other  driver and members of her household 
continued to drive the car past their home for the next few weeks.  
Mrs H and Mr G were shocked  to find that the other  driver later claimed her car had to be 
recovered and that she had provided  an engineers report showing repair costs of £4,558. 
They also found  that Aviva had settled  the other drivers claim in July 2017.  Mrs H and Mr G 
had given Aviva details of independent witnesses plus a CCTV recording. It showed the 
collision was minor and that an airbag hadnt  deployed in the other  drivers car. They  said 
her claim for recovery and storage charges was false.
Mrs H and Mr G expected  Aviva  to conclude that the two parts  of the claim were  either  
exaggerated or fraudulent. Aviva appointed a firm of investigators in October  2017.  The 
investigators said there was no doubt  that the other  drivers claim had been exaggerated. 
They said the recovery charge and a claim for storage charges of £2,424 were fraudulent, as 
the evidence showed the vehicle was in use after the incident.
Avivas engineers reviewed the CCTV footage. They didnt think an airbag had gone off. 
They said if it had, the car wouldnt have been driveable. When Aviva spoke to one of the 
independent witnesses, he confirmed the version  of events Mrs H and Mr G had given. But 
Aviva later paid the recovery charge, plus £1,480 towards the storage  charges. Mrs H and 
Mr G pointed out that the unit where  the other  driver claimed her car had been stored was at 
the same  location  as her familys second-hand car business. 
Aviva said it had paid the other drivers claim in good faith, having seen an engineers report  
about the damage. It said it had asked  an investigator to challenge the extent of the work  
and the recovery  / storage  charges.  It said it would  take legal advice. Aviva  later told Mrs H 
and Mr G that it couldnt prove the other driver  had exaggerated her claim.  It said that was 
the view of its solicitors. But it accepted  that it could have updated Mrs H and Mr G more  
about the claim. It offered  them £150 compensation for distress  and inconvenience.
Our adjudicator thought Aviva  had acted reasonably. Mrs H and Mr G said Aviva had 
admitted that its claims-handling  was disappointing. They referred  to all the evidence theyd 
provided and queried why Aviva hadnt  done  more with it. As there was no agreement, the 
complaint was passed to me for review. I issued  a provisional decision as follows:
There would  always have  been a fault claim on Mrs Hs policy following the accident, as it 
was caused by her daughter reversing off the driveway onto the road. A driver who is 
reversing has a higher duty of care than one who isnt. Mrs H and Mr G havent disputed  
liability, and the fault claim in itself is likely  to lead to higher  future premiums.  
The cost of the claim is unlikely to affect Mrs Hs premiums, but from what  Mrs H and Mr G 
have said, that isnt the issue they are most concerned about. They  think Aviva should  have  
Ref: DRN45140192done more with the evidence they provided. They think it should have disputed  the amount  
of the damage, the recovery of the other drivers  car and the apparent  cost of its storage. 
They think  its a major  part of an insurers role to try to ensure that only valid claims are paid.  
Avivas investigator found Mrs H and her daughter  to be credible in their account of events. 
Mrs H and Mr G had also given Aviva details  of two independent witnesses. Aviva called one 
of the witnesses, who said they had given an accurate account of events. Mrs H and Mr Gs 
account was that there was little damage to the car, that the airbag hadnt gone off and that 
the other driver had driven away from the accident  scene.  But Aviva didnt take a statement  
from the first independent witness,  and it seems it didnt contact the other witness at all.
I can see why Mrs H and Mr G found that inexplicable. It seems  the second  witness is likely 
to have confirmed  that the car was driven away with little damage to it after the accident. 
The CCTV footage  shows the collision. I think it shows  that it was low-speed  and that little 
damage seems to have  been caused.  In my opinion, theres no sign of an airbag deploying.  
The footage  also shows that the other  driver emerged from her car quickly to inspect the 
damage. I think its unlikely shed have  done that so calmly had an airbag just gone off in her 
face. And Avivas notes  show that having viewed the CCTV footage,  its engineers didnt 
think an airbag had gone off. 
I think there was a lot of evidence that would  have allowed Aviva to challenge the extent of 
the damage the other driver claimed  for, even though she produced an invoice  for it. Avivas 
notes show it thought its claims-handler  shouldnt  have  paid the claim without consulting an 
in-house engineer  first. When we asked for a copy of the legal  advice Aviva  had relied  on, it 
said it only got a verbal  legal  opinion.  I dont think that would inspire much confidence in 
Mrs H and Mr G that Avivas lawyers carried out a full review of the situation. Theres a note 
on the file that says the solicitors suggested  carrying out further enquiries. It seems Avivas 
investigator was appointed  as a result of that, but the investigators  enquiries were limited.   
Mrs H and Mr G didnt want Aviva to pay the recovery and storage charges. They were sure 
that part of the claim  was fraudulent. And the extent of the damage claim was already in real 
doubt. I cant see anything on the file that shows Aviva queried where the car was recovered 
from - or the date of its recovery - until March  2018.  The recovery  charge was paid in April 
2018. From  the file, it isnt clear why. Aviva had details of two independent witnesses who 
are likely to have said the car was driven  away from the scene.  If thats what  happened,  the 
bill for the recovery of the car  and for its storage  was fraudulent.  
Initially, Aviva asked  its investigator to look into the location of the storage,  as it was a unit 
adjacent to the other drivers second-hand car family  business. The investigator was asked 
to challenge the business about the claims.  Mrs H and Mr G thought the other drivers 
damage was repaired  by her family members, whilst storage was claimed by a business 
associate of the family business. The investigators  report says it put its enquiries on hold 
whilst Aviva considered its options,  which would have included involving the police. It seems 
Aviva didnt pursue  these  further enquiries through its investigator,  and it isnt clear  why not.
When Aviva  queried the amount claimed  for storage in March  2017, it asked for documents 
and further details about the recovery as well from the other drivers representative. I havent 
seen a response to its queries in the claims notes, but Aviva paid £1,480  of the £2,424  
claimed by the other driver for storage. I can see why Mrs H and Mr G believe that Aviva  
could probably  have avoided paying  the recovery and storage charges altogether, had it 
simply taken statements from the independent  witnesses, or carried out more enquiries.
Ref: DRN45140193Aviva offered Mrs H £150 for its lack of updates  to her during the long period in which  the 
claim was dealt with. Mrs H and Mr G said they were more  upset about Avivas mishandling 
of both aspects  of the claim and its decision to settle it than about the lack of updates.  
Ultimately, its for Aviva to decide  how a claim should be settled. Aviva said it couldnt prove 
the claim was inflated or fraudulent. Mrs H and Mr G were  very frustrated and confused  by 
that, because  they didnt  think  a proper investigation  had been carried out. They  provided  
information to Aviva that it seems it didnt use. So theyre still very upset that what seems  
very likely to have been an exaggerated  and fraudulent claim wasnt  dealt with differently. 
Based on what Ive seen  so far, I think their view of Avivas  decisions and the level of their 
distress are both understandable and reasonable. 
Mrs H has said the reason for making  a complaint  wasnt  to get compensation. I have no 
doubt thats true, but the decisions Aviva has made cant be overturned,  as Mrs H and Mr G 
would like. Given the distress and inconvenience Mrs H and Mr G have faced, I think it would 
be fair and reasonable for Aviva to pay more than it has already proposed.  In my opinion, 
Aviva should  pay Mrs H a further £250 compensation, making £400 in total.      
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Aviva didnt comment. Mrs H 
didnt accept the compensation I proposed. She thought  I should  instruct  Aviva  to re-open 
and re-investigate  the claim. Failing that, Mrs H said £1,500  compensation would be 
appropriate. She said that wasnt  only for distress and inconvenience, but for the financial 
loss arising from the higher premiums to be paid for the next five years due to the fault claim. 
Mrs H said there was legal cover on the policy to investigate claims made against it. She 
said Aviva  had taken a commercial decision not to investigate properly and had mishandled  
the claim.  It hadnt  dealt with it in a timely  manner and hadnt interviewed  the witnesses 
whose details had been put forward. She said it didnt take legal advice and dismissed  the 
CCTV evidence. It paid the claim without full details of the repair,  or of the recovery and 
storage charges. And it didnt check whether  the other driver was insured. Mrs H thinks if 
she wasnt insured, then there would have been no need for Aviva to pay the claim.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision,  I agree that Aviva  handled  the claim badly. In my view it 
could have done much  more to dispute  the costs claimed by the other driver. So I fully 
understand why Mrs H and Mr G are so upset. But Im not able to direct  Aviva to re-open  the 
claim and re-investigate.    
I cant award compensation to offset  the rise in premiums either. Mrs H and Mr G havent 
disputed that their daughter is liable for the accident. The fault claim on the policy  will mean 
future premiums are affected. Mrs H says her premium rose by £300 this year.  She thinks it 
will do so for the next five years.  The rise in premium may be due to factors  other than the 
fault claim  although  thats likely  to have been  the main reason for it. If Mrs Hs policy is with 
Aviva, she can query the rise in premium with it.
I dont think the cost of the claim is likely to have much impact  on future premiums. And the 
effect of the claim  on the level of premium will lessen each year.  But I can see why Mrs H 
and Mr G are concerned that some charges were paid in the first place and that they might 
Ref: DRN45140194have an impact. I think its very likely  that Aviva could have avoided paying for recovery  and 
storage charges had it interviewed  the witnesses. So I think it should delete the record  of 
those charges from the Claims  and Underwriting database (CUE).   
I dont think its possible to say for sure why Aviva didnt handle  the claim differently. But the 
legal cover on the policy isnt there to deal with claims, as Mrs H has suggested. That cover 
provides help for those insured on the policy to claim costs  and compensation after a non-
fault incident. It also provides general legal  advice and help in defending motoring offences. 
Its for Aviva to manage claims as part of the standard  policy  cover it provides. Aviva  did take 
(verbal) legal advice.  It instructed an investigator as a result of that. Unfortunately,  the 
investigation was limited and no further  legal advice was sought. I think  the outcome may 
have been different had that not been the case.       
Mrs H and Mr G suspect that the other driver  wasnt insured to drive  the car. I havent seen 
anything to support  their view, but driving uninsured is a matter for the police. Avivas notes 
show that it thought  it had a duty to pay the other drivers costs,  despite the suspicions held 
by Mrs H and Mr G. In my opinion, given the evidence about the collision, it had no option  
but to accept liability on Mrs Hs valid policy.
We asked Aviva to comment on my proposal  for it to amend the CUE record.  We also told 
Aviva that - having  reconsidered the effect  on Mrs H and Mr G of the way it handled the 
claim - I thought it would  be right to raise the compensation for distress and inconvenience to 
£500. Aviva  didnt comment on my proposals,  just as it didnt comment on my provisional 
findings. I realise that Mrs H and Mr G will still be disappointed with the outcome of their 
complaint. But I hope  that the increased  compensation and the amendment  of the CUE 
record will go some  way towards putting  matters right.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance  Limited  to do the 
following:
pay Mrs H £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience
remove the cost of the storage and recovery charges from the CUE database
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4514019