K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains that Harvey  & Thompson Limited (trading as H & T Pawnbrokers) didnt do 
enough checks before  lending  to her.
background
Ms H had three instalment loans from H & T between December 2012 and May 2014 as 
follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly  
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 4 Dec 2012 £300 12m £39.79 15 Nov 2013 18 Oct 2013
2 18 Oct 2013 £600 24m £58.42 15 Oct 2014 28 May 2014
3 28 May 2014 £1,000 24m £96.78 13 May 2016 13 Jun 2014
Ms H says the high interest rates charged  on the loans meant the repayments took over her 
life for a substantial period. She says she rolled  over the loans for many months which  
caused unnecessary  distress and affected  her health.
H & T says it asked  Ms H about  her income  and expenditure and verified the information 
using copies of her bank statements.  It says it considered  the checks were sufficient and 
found the loans to be affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He considered  that Ms Hs 
pattern of borrowing by loan 3 indicated the repayments on the loan were likely to be 
unsustainable. Our adjudicator recommended that interest and charges should be refunded  
on loan 3 (plus 8% statutory interest) and that the loan should be removed from Ms Hs 
credit file.
H & T responded to say, in summary, that Ms H borrowed from it for a total of 18 months. It 
says that as the loans were repaid and no further  borrowing occurred, it cannot agree that 
Ms H had become  dependent  on the loans.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
H & T needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Ms H could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that H & T should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
Ref: DRN44874062the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that H & T was required to establish 
whether Ms H could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Hs complaint.
Loans 1 and 2
Im satisfied that H & T did enough  checks before  approving these loans and that there was 
nothing in the available information that should have indicated  Ms H was having trouble 
managing her money.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of H & Ts lending history with Ms H, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which H & T should  reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so H & T should have realised that it shouldnt  
have provided  any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Ms Hs case, I think that this point  was reached by 
loan 3. I say this because:
The nature  of short-term lending is such that a consumer pays  a large amount of 
interest to address  a temporary cash flow issue. As Ms H had been  borrowing from 
H & T continuously for almost 18 months  by this stage, and was applying  to borrow  
for significantly longer,  I consider  H & T should  have  realised  that she wasnt using 
the loans for their intended purpose;
Ref: DRN44874063This was the second time that Ms H had taken out a new loan on the same day shed 
repaid the previous one. So H & T ought  to have realised it was more likely  than not 
Ms H was having  to borrow  further to cover the hole repaying  her previous loan was 
leaving in her finances and that Ms Hs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably;
Ms H wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed H & T. Loan 3 was 
taken out almost 18 months after Ms Hs first. And it was for over three times the 
amount. Ms H had paid large  amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to H & T 
over an extended period.
I think that Ms H lost out because H & T continued  to provide borrowing after loan 2:
Loan 3 had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Hs indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the cumulative  term of the loans was likely  to have  had negative  implications on 
Ms Hs ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
I accept Ms H only borrowed from H & T for a total of 18 months, but H & T would not have 
known that at the time it approved loan 3. Indeed, as the term of loan 3 was 24 months, the 
potential total lending period was actually almost three-and-a-half  years  at the point of the 
loan 3 application. So Im upholding the complaint about loan 3 and H & T should put things  
right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Harvey & Thompson Limited (trading as 
H & T Pawnbrokers) should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Ms H paid on loan 3;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
The number of and term of the loans  taken by loan 3 means any information  
recorded about it is adverse. So all entries about  loan 3 should be removed from 
Ms Hs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires H & T to take off tax from this interest. H & T must give 
Ms H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4487406