K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that Bank  of Scotland Plc (trading  as Halifax) is holding her liable for a 
series of credit card payments totalling  £2,754.05  which  she says she didnt make or 
otherwise authorise.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 30 December 2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
it was most likely that the disputed transactions were made with Miss Ps consent.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
13 January 2020.  Miss P didnt respond to the provisional decision.  Halifax said they 
agreed with it and didnt have anything  further  to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side has sent me anything new to consider. So having reconsidered the case, Ive 
come to the same conclusion as before  that its fair for Halifax  to hold Miss P liable for the 
payments in dispute.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Miss Ps 
complaint about  Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February  2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN44004182COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss P complains  that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) is holding her liable for a series  of 
credit card payments totalling £2,754.05 which  she says she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
what happened
On 1 September 2017, Miss P opened this credit card account. The card was sent on 4 September 
2017, and on 6 September 2017 Halifax sent her a text to let her know  it was on its way.
The card was activated on 11 September 2017. Then between 16 and 26 September 2017, it was 
used for retail purchases and cash withdrawals totalling £2,754.05.
Halifax sent Miss P a statement on 18 September 2017 showing the first transaction  for £260.05.  
They sent her two texts on 26 September 2017: one to let her know her card was reaching  its limit, 
and the second when it went over the limit.
On 28 September 2017, Miss P reported the transactions, saying she never received the card or PIN. 
She said her post was delivered directly into her home. She said she noticed something was wrong 
when she checked  her statement.  
Halifax held Miss P liable for the payments, so she came to our service. Our adjudicator  looked  into 
things independently, and didnt uphold  the complaint. She said Miss P waited a long time to report 
that her card hadnt arrived, and that it was strange she didnt respond to Halifaxs messages about  
her card approaching and going over its limit. She said it was unlikely an unknown person  couldve 
intercepted both the card and PIN. And the person who used the card did so very slowly after 
activating it.
Miss P disagreed  with our adjudicator. She said her post must  have been intercepted.  She said she 
was too busy from work to contact Halifax, but did so as soon as she realised what  had happened. 
She said she didnt think anything of her card not arriving, as she assumed  Halifax mightve declined 
her application, and she said this had never happened before.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im not planning to uphold the complaint  Ill explain why.
Broadly, Halifax can hold Miss P liable for the transactions in dispute if the evidence suggests  its 
most likely she made  them  herself  or authorised  someone else to make them.
Having carefully considered everything that both sides have said and provided, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Halifax to conclude  that Miss P authorised the transactions.
While the technical details of the transactions are not still available due to the time thats passed,  
these types of payments would normally have required  Miss Ps genuine card and the correct PIN. 
And both sides seem to accept thats how these were carried out.
Ref: DRN44004183It is possible that someone could have intercepted Miss Ps post. But Halifaxs process at the time 
was to send the card and PIN separately in different envelopes on different days. And Miss P said her 
post was delivered directly into her property. So its unlikely that an unknown  party  couldve accessed 
her property and intercepted  her post on both occasions.
The card was sent on 4 September 2017, and wouldve  arrived around two days  later.  But the person 
using the card didnt activate it until 11 September 2017. Then they waited five days before making 
the first transaction. They  waited another four days to make any other significant purchases.  Then 
there was a gap of a further two days before they made  transactions again, then another two day gap, 
and another  after that. Then they didnt make  any more purchases  until Miss P reported the matter to 
NatWest another two days later.
This seems unusual  if someone  was trying to defraud Miss P, I mightve expected  them to have 
used her card as quickly as possible before she realised  it was missing. But here, the person  used the 
card relatively  slowly, especially at first. Again, this makes it seem unlikely to have been an unknown 
party trying  to defraud Miss P.
We asked  Miss P for more details about  who else had access to her property, and whether there was 
someone she knew who could  have  done  this without her permission. But despite chasing  this up, we 
havent had a reply. So Ive not got a reasonable  basis on which  I can conclude that someone known 
to Miss P did this without her authority.
Miss P said she noticed  things were wrong when she checked her statement. But her statement was 
sent on 18 September 2017.  So its not clear why Miss P waited until 28 September 2017 to report 
this.
Similarly, Halifax sent Miss P texts on 26 September 2017, when her card approached and then went  
over its limit. But again, Miss P didnt contact Halifax for two days. She now says she didnt receive 
these texts. But Halifaxs system shows the texts were delivered correctly, and they were sent to the 
same mobile  number that Miss P gave  our service.
It also seems strange that Miss P waited  27 days to tell Halifax that her card and PIN hadnt arrived, 
not least  as they texted her on 6 September 2017 to let her know the card was on its way and so she 
should expect it shortly. Miss P says this had never happened before, which  would mean  she didnt 
have a reason to suspect  something  was wrong. But I can see there were  actually two occasions with 
another bank  where  Miss P opened an account,  the account was spent up to its limit, and then only 
afterwards Miss P reported that she hadnt received the card and PIN. So contrary  to what Miss P has 
told us, this has happened to her before. Indeed,  one of those incidents was less than a month before 
this one. So its surprising,  then, that Miss P didnt  check up on where her card and PIN were  earlier, 
or report anything when  she received her statement  or texts.  
Miss P says she assumed her application had been declined. But I dont find this plausible,  given that 
it had already been accepted, and Halifax had told her the card was on its way, and she even 
received an account statement showing the card was in use.
In summary, I dont think its likely that an unknown  person did this. Ive not got a reasonable basis on 
which to conclude someone known to Miss P did this without her permission. It looks like Miss P 
waited to report  the transactions despite having  reason to contact Halifax earlier. And Miss Ps 
testimony has not been consistent with the evidence. So that leaves the most likely  possibility as 
being that Miss P made these transactions or gave someone  else permission to make them.
And so based  on everything Ive seen so far, I think its fair for Halifax  to hold Miss P liable for the 
transactions in dispute  because,  overall, I think its more likely than not that Miss P made or 
authorised them.
Ref: DRN44004184my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont plan to uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Please could  Halifax and Miss P send me any more information or comments  to look at by 13 January 
2020. After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4400418