K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that she was mis-sold a hire purchase agreement for a car by PSA 
Finance UK Limited.
background
In November 2015 Mrs M acquired a new car with the benefit  of a hire purchase agreement 
with PSA Finance. Mrs M says that 
she wasnt given proper information about  the terms and conditions at the point of 
sale and that she was pressured  into signing the agreement.
she was told she could hand the car back at any time without  having  to pay anything 
more. However when she decided to end the agreement in June 2016 she had to pay 
£583.83 for returning it early and, following an inspection report on 20 June, she was 
billed a further £1,400.14 for damage  to the car and missing documentation. She 
feels this wasnt made  clear and that its unfair.
The insurance had a number of add-ons  including GAP, tyre and SMART insurance.  
She says she continued to be charged  for these even when she got into financial 
difficulties and couldnt afford  them.  Shed like these  refunded.
PSA Finance said the terms and conditions  of the agreement were explained to Mrs M 
before she signed  it so it doesnt agree she was misled. At the time Mrs M had signed up for 
the additional insurance items, for which there  was an additional cost, but it hadnt been  
aware until now that shed had financial difficulties.  The agreement set out what would 
happen in the event  it was ended early, including that charges would be payable if the car 
wasnt returned in good condition and on that basis, it didnt agree that the charges were 
unfair. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She couldnt  see anything to show Mrs M had 
been pressured into signing the agreement. And the agreement set out the additional 
charges that had been added (the GAP, tyre and SMART  insurance) and the cost. Mrs M 
had signed to accept these and to agree to the monthly payments so she couldnt  agree it 
had been mis-sold. Shed  seen Mrs M said she was having difficulty in paying  for the 
insurance add-ons but she hadnt seen anything to show Mrs M had told PSA about this at 
the time.  For that reason  she didnt think it had acted unfairly.
Shed taken into account Mrs M said shed been told she could hand the car back at any 
time without  any further cost. But the terms and conditions (T &Cs) of the agreement signed  
by Mrs M made it clear  that, depending on when the agreement was ended,  there could be 
costs to pay. It was also clear from the T & Cs that Mrs M would  be responsible for ensuring 
the car was returned in reasonable condition and that, if that wasnt the case, thered be 
additional charges. In Mrs Ms case the independent  assessment on 20 June 2016 identified 
the following  items totalling  £1,400.14:
Service history  incomplete - £400.00
Abort fee - £135.00 (start collection and then cancel)
V5c Missing  - £100.00
Puncture repair kit missing - £49.70
Front bumper - £152.00
Ref: DRN40853192Front wheel trim L - £16.00
Front door L-£152.00
Rear Door  L Swage  - £48.00
Rear wheel trim L - £16.00
Rear bumper dent - £152.00  - not a dent more like patchy.
Rear bumper misaligned - £50.00
Boot board broken  - £17.44
Front Door R - £48.00
Front wheel trim R - £16.00
Front wing R - £48.00
While our investigator acknowledged Mrs Ms concern at having to pay such a large amount, 
the report had been carried out in line with the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing  Association 
(BVRLA) guidelines,  the accepted industry guidance, and as such, could be relied on. 
However looking at the definitions  in the guidelines, she considered  the damage to the right 
hand front door could be considered wear and tear so she recommended  PSA Finance 
deduct £48 from the overall charge of £1400.14. Other than that she didnt agree PSA had 
acted unfairly with regard  to the signing of the agreement  in 2015 or its termination  in 2018 
so she wouldnt be asking  it to do anything more.
Mrs M disagreed. She said shed been  pressured  into taking out this agreement, and the 
various add-ons, without fully understanding what they were  for. Shed relied  on what shed 
been told at the time including that shed be able to return the car after 2 years  with no extra 
charge. She felt shed been  misled  and asked for her complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  this isnt the decision Mrs M was 
hoping for but, having done so, I dont consider the agreement was mis-sold as Ill now 
explain.
Where theres no information on any particular point or the information available  is disputed, 
as is the case here on some issues, then Ive made my decision on the balance of 
probabilities, in other words whats more likely than not to have happened.
Signing the agreement
Ive taken into account what Mrs M says about  the circumstances surrounding the signing of 
this agreement. Unfortunately there  are no notes of what was said so I cant comment on 
what Mrs M was told at the time. If Mrs M feels that she was misled however she may wish 
to raise this with the garage or the relevant ombudsman but thats  outside  of the scope of 
this decision.
I have however looked at the agreement  and I can see the key facts are set out on page 1, 
including the amount  of credit, the interest  rate, the monthly payments and the number of 
payments to be made. It also detailed the type of insurance taken out, which in this case 
included GAP, tyre and SMART insurance plus the cost. In addition to this, Ive seen  Mrs M 
was provided with an Added  Explanation-  Customer document  which gave further  
information about the terms  and conditions. Both documents were signed by Mrs M at the 
time.
Ref: DRN40853193In the circumstances Im satisfied Mrs M was provided with the key information about  the 
terms and conditions before she signed the agreement and I havent seen anything  to 
suggest she was pressured into signing it without having the opportunity  to read them  or ask 
questions. I havent seen  anything to show that the terms of the agreement are different to 
what Mrs M signed up to and on that basis, I dont agree the agreement  was mis-sold.
Insurance add-ons
Ive seen that at the time she signed the agreement, Mrs M also ticked and signed to say 
she required  GAP, tyre and SMART insurance in addition to the usual insurance so this was 
added on. I understand that Mrs Ms since had difficulty in paying for these add-ons because  
of her financial situation but I cant see that PSA Finance was told about this at the time so it 
didnt have the opportunity to review this or make  any adjustments.  For that reason I cant 
reasonably say its acted  unfairly or ask it to refund any of the premiums  paid so far as Mrs 
M has had the benefit of that insurance.
Early termination :
Its clear from the T&Cs that additional  costs may be payable if the agreement is ended  
before the due date, depending on when that happens and the condition  of the car on its 
return. As Mrs M decided  to end the agreement early in June 2018, there was a charge  to 
pay but PSA Finance has applied the costs in line with the agreement so I cant  agree its 
acted unfairly or made a mistake.
Additional charges
Under the agreement- clauses 6.1 and18  - Mrs M was required to keep the car in good 
repair, including having it repaired  and maintained  in line with the manufacturers 
requirement and in the event, this wasnt done,  PSA Finance was entitled  to charge for the 
cost of any repairs or loss of value.
Ive seen that the independent report identified a number  of issues with Mrs Ms car. Ive no 
reason to doubt the inspection was carried  out properly and in line with the BVRLA 
guidelines so I think its fair to rely on it as a reasonable  guide to the condition of the car on 
its return. And because  the agreement is very clear that such issues  can be charged  for then 
I cant agree  PSA Finance  was wrong  to bill Mrs M for these costs.
Its not for me to go back over the independent report in detail but Id agree with our 
investigator that under the BVRLA  guidelines,  the damage to the front right hand door could 
be considered  to be wear  and tear so I think its fair to deduct this from the total of the 
charges payable by Mrs M. Other than that I wont be asking PSA Finance to waive or refund 
these charges.
I realise this isnt the decision Mrs M was hoping for but for the reasons given, I havent  seen 
anything to show the agreement was mis-sold to Mrs M in 2015 or that the charges in 
general were applied unfairly  or by mistake. For that reason I will be directing PSA Finance 
to refund £48 as set out above but not to do anything more to resolve  the complaint.
Ref: DRN40853194my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct PSA Finance UK Limited to 
deduct £48 from the post termination charges billed to Mrs M and, if already paid, refund this 
to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4085319