K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Virgin Money  plc wont refund to her the money that she paid for a 
wheelchair for her husband. Her complaint  is made against Virgin  Money under section 75 of 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 and her husband  and son are also involved in her complaint.
background
Mrs R used her Virgin  Money credit card in August 2017 to pay £1,450 for an electric 
wheelchair for her husband. Her husband  said that the wheelchair  wasnt  as comfortable as 
the model that had been demonstrated to him so she complained  to the supplier. She says 
that the supplier  initially  said that it would help to change the seating  position  but then said 
that it wouldnt do anything to help. Mrs Rs son wrote to the supplier  and said that it should  
deal with him (and not his parents). And she says that he didnt receive a reply from the 
supplier. But the supplier  has provided a copy of the letter that it says it sent to Mrs Rs son. 
Mrs R claimed  a refund from Virgin Money under section 75. There  was a delay before it 
responded to her claim  and Mrs R didnt receive the letter  that it sent to her. It said that 
Mrs R hadnt returned the wheelchair to the supplier so it wasnt upholding her claim. And it 
said that the suppliers  terms and conditions offer a refund for unsuitable goods and that the 
wheelchair came with a twelve month warranty. And more recently its said that the supplier 
should be given  the opportunity to fix any issues  but if it was unable to do so it might ask 
Mrs R to get an independent report from a technical expert describing the issue with the 
chair.
Mrs R wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained to this service.  The investigator didnt 
recommend that this complaint should  be upheld. He said that Virgin Moneys  suggestion 
that the supplier  be given  the chance  to repair the chair was reasonable and a sensible way 
to proceed. And it had said that, if the supplier  was unable to rectify  the seat problem, then it 
might review  the matter  and ask for Mrs R to obtain  an independent report from a technical 
expert  which  he considered to be reasonable. 
Mrs R has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. Shes responded in 
detail and says,  in summary,  that 
the supplier clearly refused to fix any issues with the chair, both by phone  and by not 
responding to the letter  from her son;
her son got involved  because of the stress  that this issue  was causing  Mrs R and her 
husband;
the supplier didnt write back to her son;
the demonstration model that her husband tried wasnt the same as the model 
supplied; and
the chair has remained unused and it wouldnt benefit her or her husband to have the 
supplier repair the chair as it has had to be replaced;
and shes asked for an explanation of Virgin Moneys comment that some of her points are 
factually incorrect and that she refuses to deal constructively  with the merchant. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN45831762In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mrs Rs complaint about  Virgin  
Money, I must be satisfied  that theres  been a breach  of contract  or misrepresentation by the 
supplier and that Virgin Moneys  response to her claim  under section 75 wasnt  fair or 
reasonable. Im not determining the outcome  of Mrs Rs claim under section 75 as only a 
court would be able to do that.
Mrs R used her credit  card to buy the wheelchair  for her husband  but Virgin  Money has 
said that its prepared  to consider her claim under section 75 complaint because it feels  that 
she will gain a benefit from her husbands use of the electric wheelchair. So I have 
considered Mrs Rs complaint on that basis.
The wheelchair was bought in August  2017  and Mrs Rs husband left a message for the 
supplier a few weeks  later because of issues that he was having  with the chair. There seems 
to have been a misunderstanding when the supplier  phoned him back  but Im not 
persuaded that the supplier intended to be rude or offensive to Mrs Rs husband. And I 
consider that the supplier was trying  to help Mrs Rs husband to find a solution that was 
comfortable for him.
Mrs Rs son wrote to the supplier in October  2017 and the supplier has provided a copy  of 
the reply that it says it sent. But it says that the letter  was returned to it as undeliverable and 
that it received  no further contact from Mrs Rs son. 
Mrs R claimed  a refund from Virgin Money and it sent its final response letter to her in July 
2018  but Mrs R says that she didnt receive that letter.  It said that Mrs R hadnt  returned 
the wheelchair to the supplier so it wasnt upholding her claim. And it said that the suppliers 
terms and conditions offer a refund  for unsuitable  goods  and that the wheelchair came with a 
twelve month warranty. A copy of that letter was sent to Mrs R in August 2018 and Mrs R 
complained to this service. Virgin Money has since said the supplier should be given the 
opportunity to fix any issues  but if it was unable to do so it might ask Mrs R to get an 
independent report  from a technical expert describing the issue  with the chair. But Mrs R 
says that its too late to repair  the chair as a replacement chair  has been  bought  for her 
husband  so Virgin Money should refund to her the money that she paid to the supplier.
But I can only require Virgin Money  to refund any money to Mrs R if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier and if Virgin Moneys response to her claim 
hasnt been fair or reasonable.
Its clear that Mrs R feels strongly about the issues that give rise to her complaint. But the 
supplier says that she received the wheelchair  that she ordered and Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that the wheelchair  is faulty. And Im not persuaded that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier. I consider it to be 
more likely than not that the supplier was trying  to help Mrs Rs husband to find a solution 
that was comfortable for him and that it did respond to Mrs Rs sons  letter.  
I find that Virgin Moneys suggestion  that the supplier  should be given the opportunity to fix 
any issues with the chair is fair and reasonable in these circumstances. And I also find that 
its reasonable for it to say that, if the suppliers  unable  to fix any of those issues, it might  ask 
Mrs R to get an independent report from a technical expert describing the issue with the 
chair. 
Ref: DRN45831763There were some delays in Virgin Moneys  initial response to Mrs Rs claim  but Im not 
persuaded that the delay  justifies an award of compensation  to Mrs R. And, other than that, I 
find that Virgin Moneys response  to Mrs Rs complaint has been  fair and reasonable  but I 
dont consider that its for me to explain Virgin Moneys comments  about Mrs Rs claim. So I 
find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Virgin  Money to refund to Mrs R 
any of the money  that she paid for the wheelchair,  or to pay her any compensation, or to 
take any other action  in response to her complaint. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4583176