K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) will only replace the 
damaged areas of his kitchen after a home insurance claim for fire.
background
In December 2017 Mr R took buildings and contents  insurance  cover with Lloyds. This policy 
included replacement of sets cover. Mr Rs policy  had renewed in December 2018. The new 
terms did not include matching sets cover as standard. An additional premium  needed  to be 
paid for this. 
In January 2019 Mr R called Lloyds to query why a direct debit payment had been taken 
from his bank account. Lloyds said his annual  policy had renewed and that an invitation  to 
renew was sent in October 2018. Mr R couldnt remember  receiving  the documents  so 
Lloyds said it would  resend them. It was agreed  Mr R would call back if he had any 
questions. 
In March 2019 Mr R experienced a fire in his kitchen. Lloyds instructed a contractor who 
examined the damaged areas.  Mr R was told that under the new policy  terms his cover was 
limited to the damaged areas  of his kitchen only - replacement of sets cover was available  at 
an extra  cost. 
Repairs did not go ahead because Mr R asked for a cash settlement instead. Lloyds settled 
the claim through a cash payment of £3,912.36. 
One of our investigators  looked at the matter and was satisfied that Lloyds had reasonably 
applied the new policy terms to Mr Rs claim.  But she was of the view that Lloyds should 
increase its settlement offer to include 50% of the difference in replacing the rest of the 
kitchen unit doors and the quote for replacing  only the damaged  doors.
Mr R accepted the investigators view. Lloyds disagreed. As an agreement couldnt be 
reached the complaint was passed  to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision.  In 
summary I felt Lloyds had settled  Mr Rs claim fairly and hadnt done anything  wrong by 
applying the new policy terms and conditions. So, I did not intend  to ask Lloyds to pay any 
more. 
Lloyds didnt respond to my provisional  decision.  Mr R responded to say he didnt  agree.  In 
summary, he said:
-He was told the damaged kitchen doors could be replaced but they wouldnt be an 
exact match to the rest of his undamaged kitchen  doors;
-He is not claiming the full amount of the kitchen replacement, only the difference of 
matching the original  cupboard doors;
-He never  received  the renewal documents  and would not have renewed the 
insurance policy if he was aware  matching sets cover had been removed.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete or 
inconclusive, as some  of it is here, I reach  my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that 
is, what I consider is more likely to have happened, in light of the evidence that is available 
and the wider surrounding circumstances.  
Ref: DRN44962332Having done so, Ive reached  the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons. 
which policy  terms should apply?
The 2017  policy  included  replacement of sets cover. The 2018 policy didnt. The rules  state  
that an insurer is entitled to make  changes to the policy terms at renewal. But changes 
should be highlighted to the consumer  in the renewal invitation, so they can consider if the 
policy remains suitable.
Mr R says he didnt know about the changes to the policy terms because he didnt receive  
the renewal documents. Mr R says if hed known matching sets cover  was no longer  
included in his policy, he would have taken alternative cover. 
Ive considered whether I think Mr R was likely aware of the changes to his policy  and in any 
event, whether I think it would have  likely  made a difference to his decision about whether to 
renew his policy  or not. 
Ive seen Lloyds  records. These show the documents were sent at renewal. Mr R says he 
didnt get them. But Im satisfied they were sent to his address. Im not aware  of them  being 
returned to Lloyds as undelivered. So, if Mr R didnt receive them,  I dont think  I can fairly 
hold Lloyds responsible.
Mr R called Lloyds on 31 January 2019 after his premium was taken. Lloyds said the policy 
had been renewed. Mr R accepted this and asked for a copy of the policy  documents  to be 
resent, as he couldnt remember  receiving  them  in October 2018. The call notes say the 
documents were  resent to Mr R and that hed look over them  and call back. 
Lloyds audit trail does not show whether the documents were  resent.  But Im also not 
satisfied that this record captures all correspondence sent. I say this because  Lloyds later 
sent the documents again via recorded delivery  and provided a tracking number  but this 
record does not show on the audit trail either. 
Based on everything  Ive seen, Lloyds did what it needed to by sending  the original renewal  
documents. Its contact  also notes  suggest the documents were also resent. I cant see that 
Mr R raised that he hadnt received them until sometime  after hed made a claim on the 
policy. So, I think its more likely the he did receive  the documents. 
Because I think its more  likely the renewal documents were sent and received  by Mr R, Ive 
considered whether the changes were  made  sufficiently clear in line with the relevant rules . 
I think its clear  from the renewal documents that replacement of sets cover was being  
removed. Im satisfied Lloyds made Mr R aware  that in the event of a claim which  might  
leave him with a loss of match within a set, such as a kitchen suite,  the policy wouldnt cover 
replacement of the entire set. 
And, in any case,  Im not persuaded Mr R would have amended his policy to include (or 
taken a policy elsewhere for) replacement of sets cover in the circumstances.  I say this 
because during a call that took place between Mr R and Lloyds around a month  after the 
claim, Lloyds  explained  the settlement in line with Mr Rs new policy terms  in that matching 
sets cover was not included. 
Ref: DRN44962333Mr R asked where he stood. Lloyds explained  that without the additional  matching  sets cover 
in place, they could match the doors  to the nearest equivalent or pay a cash settlement  so 
he could pay the difference to replace the remainder  of the undamaged doors to match the 
new ones. 
Based on the conversation that took place, it does  not appear that Mr R was aware that 
matching sets cover was ever a feature of his insurance. I say this because when he was 
told that this cover was not included as standard as part of his policy  terms and it would 
need to be added at an additional cost, he did not question the difference in the 2017 and 
2018 policy terms. So, Im not persuaded that this was a key policy term that Mr R 
specifically wanted  in place and so I dont think replacement  of sets cover  would  have been  
important enough  to Mr R at the time to act to ensure he had it. 
has Lloyds settled the claim fairly?
Lloyds policy covers  repair or replacement of damaged parts  of the home only.  Where 
theres damage to part of a matching set, I would expect Lloyds to try to achieve a 
reasonable match when carrying out repairs or replacement to the damaged part of the set. 
And, if a reasonable match couldnt be achieved, I would expect Lloyds  to consider making a 
payment to compensate for the loss of match.
Lloyds assessed  the damage and says it presented three options to Mr R:  
1.Allow Lloyds to complete all the work  and obtain matching doors from its supplier at 
no extra  cost to Mr R on top of excess; 
2.Lloyds pays £3,259.56 for the required work to the kitchen and it sources  and 
supplies the replacement kitchen doors  from its supplier to match the existing units;
3.Lloyds pays £3,912.36 and Mr R takes responsibility for all the work including the 
replacement damaged unit doors.
Mr R says he wanted the matter resolved promptly due to lack of cooking  facilities, but 
theres nothing to suggest that he could arrange the repair  work  any sooner than Lloyds. He 
also says he chose  the full cash settlement because Lloyds told him that the replacement  
doors wouldnt be an exact match to the rest to his undamaged kitchen doors. Whilst I can 
see that conversation  did take place, I also must consider that Mr R said he wanted to use 
his own company to replace the whole kitchen unit set, because he wanted to change  the 
design of his kitchen to different colour solid wood doors instead of vinyl.
Because Mr R chose to take responsibility  for all the work,  I think  Lloyds was given limited  
opportunity to find a reasonable match or to consider alternative options if this was not 
achieved. And as a result,  Im unable to assess the extent of any potential mis-match,  if at 
all.  
Ive considered whats fair for both parties  in the circumstances  of the case.  For the reasons 
above I dont think its fair to ask Lloyds to pay 50% of the cost of replacing the kitchen or the 
difference of matching the original cupboard doors.  
I say this because  its possible Lloyds could provide a reasonable match by just replacing
the damaged  kitchen  unit doors. And, it wasnt given the opportunity to do so. Nor does it
seem Mr R would  have  wanted that. He wanted  to replace the whole  kitchen. In the
circumstances I dont  think  its fair to expect  Lloyds to pay for any more.  
Ref: DRN44962334Overall, for the reasons  Ive explained  above, Im satisfied Lloyds has applied the policy 
terms and settled the claim fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4496233