K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains about fees she was charged  by an appointed  representative of Legal & 
General Partnership  Services Limited  in connection  with mortgage advice.
background
Mrs F took mortgage advice from L&G. She paid it fees to do so. Another  ombudsman has 
already found  that the advice she received  was suitable and appropriate. Her representative 
brings this further  complaint about the fees she was charged for the advice. It says that she 
didnt need to pay solicitors as she could  have got a free legal service from the mortgage 
lender. And it says the broker  charged  her fees for work it didnt, or didnt need, to do.
L&G said it thought  the fees were fair. It offered to refund commission the broker received for 
referring Mrs F to a solicitor, plus £100 compensation. Our investigator think it needed to 
refund anything else, so Mrs Fs representative  asked for an ombudsman  to look at it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive said another  ombudsman  has already found  that Mrs F received suitable mortgage 
advice and an appropriate mortgage  was recommended to her. So I say no more here about 
the quality of the advice  she received.
This complaint is about what Mrs F paid to get the advice, and to get the mortgage. Theres 
no evidence that this lender offered a free legal service as an incentive with this mortgage. 
But it did offer £1,000  help with costs cashback. Its already been established that this was a 
suitable mortgage. And I dont think Mrs F would have been likely to have chosen  a different 
one because that  hypothetical  other mortgage  could have saved the legal fees she paid 
(but wouldnt  have included the £1,000  cashback).
As regards  the fees charged by the broker, I think they were clearly explained to Mrs F. They  
were set out on either the mortgage  illustration or the authorisation form she signed. I dont 
think its likely Mrs F was unaware  of what she would have to pay. Different brokers  have 
different charging  structures  and some, overall,  charge more than others. Thats  not 
unreasonable, and theres  no rule that sets out exactly  what fees should be charged  or how 
theyre charged. In this case,  Im satisfied Mrs F knew what she would be paying, agreed to 
pay it, and received the service she paid for. I dont think  the fees were so high as to be 
inherently unfair. I dont  think  it would  be fair to direct L&G to refund  some or all of them  to 
her.
Finally, Mrs Fs representative says she paid for a will service using mortgage funds. It 
hasnt provided  any evidence that she did, and the evidence from the time suggests that in 
fact she cancelled  and the cancellation fee was refunded to her too. So theres  nothing  to 
refund here.
Ref: DRN46890262my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I think  Legal & General Partnership 
Services Limited has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle this complaint, and I dont 
ask it to do anything  further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4689026