K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Bank of Scotland  Plc  trading  as Halifax - mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mrs S bought the policy in 2004  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
Halifax shouldve made Mrs S aware she had a choice about taking out the policy.  Halifax 
has sent us a copy of Mrs Ss signed credit agreement. The form isnt very clear but it looks  
like the form was filled in and printed off by Halifax and was then signed by Mrs S. 
The form has a section  for the PPI and this has been marked  with an x to opt for the policy. 
It also contains Mrs Ss personal information, such as her job, mothers  maiden name  and 
date of birth. This suggests a conversation took place between Mrs S and Halifaxs  
employee and the form has been  filled in based on what was discussed. So I think  its likely 
Mrs S was aware of the contents of the form and she chose to take the policy  although I 
can understand why she cant remember this. 
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mrs S so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think  that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mrs S says she would  have received a generous amount of sick pay benefits  from her 
employer. The policy would have paid out alongside her benefits, as well as covering her 
repayments if she became unemployed. Mrs S says she also had some savings. But having 
the policy would have meant  Mrs S could have used  her savings  for other  essential  costs.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs S paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs S back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs S now Ive issued my final decision.
Ref: DRN47913662my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4791366