K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK plc transferred  money to his account  in Denmark  in 
Danish kroner rather than in British pound sterling.
background
Mr S says he opened an account in Denmark in sterling and contacted Santander as he was 
unable to transfer his money  from the UK to Denmark using online banking.  He says he 
attended a Santander branch in April 2019 and transferred just over £300,000  to his account  
in Denmark and asked  that the transfer be in sterling.  Mr S says he noticed some  days  later 
that the transfer had been made into kroner and then back  into sterling which  resulted in a 
cost to him of about £5,000. He says he would like that money back and that Santander 
didnt follow  his instructions.
Santander doesnt accept making  a mistake and says Mr S authorised and confirmed the 
transaction in its branch. It says Mr S was given a receipt at the time and would  have 
confirmed the transaction  after providing it with the account details in Denmark.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. The 
investigator thought  it clear Mr S wanted to transfer  the money in Sterling but couldnt be 
certain what took place  in the branch. The investigator thought  Mr S had authorised the 
transaction by CHIP and PIN and had an opportunity prior to confirming it of correcting any 
errors. The investigator listened to the calls between the parties  and didnt think during the 
second call there was any mention of the currency used.
Mr S doesnt  accept that view and says there  is nothing on the receipt he was given about 
Danish kroner. He maintains that Santander  is at fault and should  refund his money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr S will be disappointed  by 
my decision.
Ive listened to the two calls between  the parties and Im satisfied that there can be no doubt 
Mr Ss intention  was to transfer  the money from his Santander account  to his account  in 
Denmark in sterling. During  the call Im also satisfied that Mr S was given the option of 
transferring the money in smaller amounts but he said he didnt wish to pay multiple transfer 
fees.
Im satisfied that its difficult to be sure what took place in branch as both sides dispute  
making the mistake. But I think Mr S had the opportunity of checking  the information  before 
authorising the transaction. I can see that Mr S authorised the transaction by CHIP  and PIN 
and ought to have been aware of any possible  amendments or corrections. So in those 
circumstances I cant fairly hold Santander  responsible for what took place and any losses  
that Mr S says he suffered,
I also think Mr S was given a receipt when the transaction  was made  which is likely to have 
mirrored the information  Santander would have  shown  Mr S before  the transaction was 
authorised. And I can see on that receipt that there is clear reference to Danish kroner. I 
appreciate the amount shown in Danish kroner is blank but I think that is because the 
Ref: DRN43773162exchange rate wasnt known  at that stage.  I would have expected Mr S to have asked 
Santander about that as clearly he was expecting there  to be no mention of Danish kroner  
on that receipt.
Im satisfied having listened to the second  call between the parties that there is no mention 
of the currency used. I accept that isnt really Mr Ss complaint but I make  that clear.
Overall as I dont think Santander has acted unfairly I cant  order  that it refund the £5,000  as 
Mr S would like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4377316