K822xcomplaint
Mr Ls complaint is about Contracts for Differences  (CFD) trades  in his account with Gain  
Capital UK Limited  (Gain). He says:
In the early hours of 24 January 2018,  in Mr Ls local time, a price error on Gains  
platform and related to his open  Japan 225 CFD positions caused the positions to be 
closed prematurely. [issue 1]
On 13 and 16 March  2018 the platforms margin requirement system wrongly caused 
margin closures of his positions. [issue  2]
background 
Gain initially  disputed issue 1 and said a spike in the market price led to closure of Mr Ls 
positions and led to gapping in its price, which was allowed  under  the agreed  terms for the 
account. It also disputes issue 2. It says there  is no record of a margin closure in Mr Ls 
account on 13 March  and that the margin closure  on 16 March  was legitimate because  his 
account margin level was below the requisite 50%.
One of our investigators  issued a view on the complaint.  He noted that Gain had reviewed 
issue 1 and that it now accepts that the price  was indeed erroneous  on 24 January and that 
Mr Ls positions appear to have been wrongly  closed  for this reason. The investigator 
endorsed Gains  proposal to redress the matter. He noted that what  Mr L would have done 
with the positions, but for the price error, could not be known with certainty. However,  he 
agreed with Gains  reference  to evidence of Mr Ls day trading history/pattern as a basis to 
conclude that he probably would have  closed the position broadly within  the same pattern. 
Gain offered a redress calculation for issue 1 based on what  it presented as the most 
favourable closing price  for Mr Ls positions  on 25 February and it proposed to convert the 
resulting profit from Japanese Yen (JRY) to US Dollars (USD), because Mr Ls account is in 
USD, at the most favourable exchange rate on 25 February. The investigator agreed with 
this. He later clarified that the calculation should be based on 400 CFDs instead of the figure 
of 200 CFDs  Gain had initially used  Gain agreed with this correction.
The investigator also concluded that there was no evidence of a margin closure in Mr Ls 
account on 13 March  and that the margin closure  on 16 March  was legitimate for the 
reasons given by Gain.
Mr L disagreed with this outcome. With regards to issue 2 he said Gains  platform had a 
fundamental margin system error  that had to be addressed. With regards to issue  1, he 
rejected the idea that he would probably have closed the positions by 25 February  and 
explained that he intended to invest more into them as he monitored the price movements. 
He also said the proposed  redress calculation   which he does not accept  is faulty for the 
following reasons:
It does not reflect  the two open  positions he had, at different opening  prices,  both of 
which were closed  due to the price error  on 24 February and both of which should be 
compensated for in a manner that captures the difference between each opening 
price and the proposed closing price (based on the 25 February  price  Gain  used).
It does not reflect  the accurate USD/JPY exchange rate  or the conversion effect of 
the accurate USD/JPY exchange rate  on 25 February.
Ref: DRN46025672The investigator said there is evidence that the two positions  were closed at the same price  
due to the price  error on 24 February, so the proposed redress  which  addresses  the 
difference between  the prices on 24 and 25 February  is not flawed. He also explained that 
it is beyond this services remit to regulate  how Gain administers its platform.  The matter 
was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons.
With regards to issue 2, I too have  not seen evidence of an erroneous margin closure  in on 
13 March 2018  and the closure on 16 March that year appears to have  been  triggered by a 
breach of the 50% margin requirement  in Mr Ls account. Gain  has shared evidence  of the 
latter with this service.  I understand and note Mr Ls suggestion that there is or could be a 
fundamental problem with the margin requirement system in Gains platform. However,  I 
have not seen a basis to conclude such a problem or that any such problem caused him a 
loss. In addition,  the investigator made  a valid point about our remit not extending to 
regulating how Gain administers its platform.
Responsibility for issue  1 no longer appears  to be in dispute. Gain now appears to accept 
that there  was a price error and it has proposed a basis for redress.
Mr Ls primary dispute with the proposal  is that he disagrees with its premise.  He says his 
plans for his positions differed from the idea that he would  have  probably  left them as they 
were and closed  them  around 25 February. He says he would have invested further in the 
positions  which would  then have multiplied  his potential  profit significantly  and he has 
been very clear  in explaining his reasons. 
However, I have not seen  sufficient wider evidence to support Mr L in this respect. I do not 
suggest that what he says is untrue but there  is also not enough wider evidence  to conclude 
that what he says is what  he probably   not possibly  would have done, but for the price  
error. In contrast, and as the investigator  explained,  there is sufficient wider evidence  from 
Mr Ls trading history of the day trading pattern, broadly speaking,  that has been mentioned. 
This provides a reliable basis to conclude, on balance, what would probably have happened  
to the Japan 225 CFD positions,  but for the price error. I agree  that they probably would 
have been closed around 25 February  and that Gains proposal to use the most  favourable  
closing price from this date is good for Mr L, given that the alternative price  options prior to 
and thereafter  appear  to be less favourable.
I am not persuaded that the proposed redress calculation is flawed in the manner that Mr L 
suggests. The different  opening prices for the two positions are not disputed.  The point is 
that both positions were  closed on 24 February at the same level and as a result  of the price 
error. It is for this reason  that the starting point for the proposed  calculation  of redress  is the 
closing price from 24 February  and the end point  for the calculation  is the favourable price 
from 25 February. 
If Mr Ls suggestion is to start the calculation from the original opening prices for both 
positions, that would appear to have the effect of double  counting profit that was taken on 24 
February  that is, profit between  the original opening prices and the closing price on 24 
February. That would not be fair. The aim is to compensate Mr L for what he probably  lost  
Ref: DRN46025673between 24 and 25 February  as a result of not being in the position to close the positions 
around 25 February when  he probably would have done so. It is not to duplicate the profit  he 
appears to have taken  between  the opening  of the positions and 24 February.
what must  Gain do?
I endorse the basis for Gains redress proposal. As explained by the investigator and as 
reflected above,  it does  not capture precisely  what  would have happened to the Japan  225 
CFD positions, but for the price error,  but it is not possible  to know with certainty what  would 
have happened  to those positions.  However,  I consider  that the proposal achieves 
compromise and an outcome that gives Mr L fair compensation based on what would 
probably have  happened  to the positions, but for the price  error.
Gain must do the following:
Both Japan 225 CFD positions were wrongly closed at 24,107 JPY on 24 February. 
The redress closing price  (from 25 February) is 23,478 JPY. The difference between  
these prices is 629 JPY and Gain should consider this to be Mr Ls loss (lost profit) 
per CFD and should use this as the basis for its redress calculation.
Gain should multiply  Mr Ls loss per CFD (629 JPY) by the total of 400 CFDs  he had 
in his positions. The result will be Mr Ls total loss in JPY for which he must be 
compensated.
Mr Ls account was/is  in USD so he would have taken the above  total lost profit  in 
this currency. Redress  is based on him taking this profit  as of 25 February,  so he 
would have taken  the USD equivalent  based  on the USD/JPY exchange rate on 25 
February 2018. Gain should apply the lowest USD/JPY  exchange rate on 25 
February 2018  as is within  its proposal   to Mr Ls total loss in JPY  to arrive  at its 
USD equivalent. Mr L has noted a mathematical error in Gains  previous  calculation 
of this and I agree  with his observation. Gain must  ensure that Mr Ls total loss in 
JPY is correctly multiplied by the accurate  lowest USD/JPY  exchange rate on 25 
February 2018. The result (the USD equivalent ) is the compensation that must be 
paid to Mr L. 
Gain should pay Mr L interest on the compensation at the rate of 8% simple per year 
from the date of this decision  to the date of settlement if the compensation  is not paid 
to him within 28 days of Gain being  notified  of his acceptance of this decision.
Gain should pay Mr L its goodwill offer of 135.63  USD, as was reflected in the 
investigators view and as an apology for the trouble and upset caused  to him by the 
price error.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint  only in relation to issue 1. I order  
Gain Capital UK Limited to pay Mr L compensation (including the payment for trouble and 
upset) as detailed above and to provide him with a calculation of the compensation in a 
simple and clear format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Ref: DRN46025674Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4602567