K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) didnt update Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs) when  she paid the balance in full on her credit  card account on 
12 July 2018 and closed the account. And that she was given the wrong advice  about  when 
it would  be updated.
background
Miss W wanted  to apply for a loan. She felt her application would  be stronger following the 
closure of her account and so needed  her credit file to be updated.  She feels her application 
was unsuccessful because her credit file hadnt  been updated. She is also unhappy that she 
was given wrong information  when  she called Barclaycard and it sent her two incorrect 
letters.
When Miss W complained to Barclaycard it didnt agree it had made a reporting error 
because  following  her complaint - it reported  the closure before it would have done so in 
the normal course of events by making  a rapid  update to the CRAs. But it did think she was 
given incorrect information  about when CRAs were routinely  updated. It gave her £30 
compensation and offered her a further  £100.
The adjudicator didnt think the bank  had caused  a delay  when it reported  the closure to the 
CRAs. Indeed she noted the bank  had updated the CRAs more quickly than it ordinarily  
would have done. She did think Miss W had been  given incorrect  information when she 
called to find out why CRAs hadnt  been  updated  about the account  closure.  And she also 
agreed Miss W had been sent letters with incorrect information. Overall  she thought the 
compensation the bank had already partly paid and partly offered of £130  was fair.
Miss W has asked  for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Miss Ws disappointment and frustration here.  She wanted to borrow  
money at an important time in her life for an important reason and was declined the loan. But 
I dont think I can fairly  hold Barclaycard responsible for this. First it isnt clear  to me that 
closing her credit card account would have enabled  her to get the loan  I just dont  have 
enough information to make that decision. And secondly, Barclaycard isnt required to make 
sure that CRAs are updated  instantly.  The timelines  Barclaycard was working to seem 
reasonable and I note in this case it went out of its way to update the CRAs quicker than 
normal.
I do, however,  think Miss W was let down with the banks customer  service when it failed to 
make the process  clear to her and sent her letters  with mistakes.
Ref: DRN44606362Barclaycard has partly  paid and partly offered a total of £130. I appreciate  Miss W doesnt 
think this is enough  given the stress and sleepless nights she has suffered. I am very sorry 
to hear how Miss W has been affected by her loan being declined. But as I have said I dont  
think the loan being declined was Barclaycards fault. Overall I think the £130  offered/paid is 
fair compensation for the poor customer service  provided. So I wont  be upholding this 
complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2019.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4460636