K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Greenlight  Credit Ltd (trading  as Varooma)  unfairly provided him with 
eight logbook loans.  He says that all of the loans were unaffordable.
background
As far as I can see, Varooma provided  Mr M with eight logbook loans. The first was provided 
in April 2013 and was for £3,000.00. The last one was provided in June 2016 and was for 
£4,000.00. In the period  between July 2013  and March 2016 Mr M was provided with six 
other loans.  One was for £2,000.00, one was for £3,500.00, two were for £4,000.00  and 
finally two were for £5,000.00. The repayment  period  ranged  from 3 months to 12 months.   
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ms complaint. And she explained why she thought 
reasonable and proportionate checks would have stopped Varooma from providing Mr M 
with any of these  loans. Varooma disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As well as setting  out the main rules,  
regulations and good industry practice, weve explained how we handle  complaints about 
unaffordable and/or  irresponsible lending on our website. Ive used this approach  to help me 
decide Mr Ms complaint.  
Having carefully considered everything  Ive been provided with, Im upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. Id like to explain why.
Our investigator set out in some  detail why she thought reasonable and proportionate   
checks would more  likely than not have shown Varooma  that Mr M wouldnt be able to 
sustainably repay  these loans. As Varooma didnt provide an explanation on why it wanted 
an ombudsmans decision, I dont know what exactly it is it disagreed  with in our 
investigators assessment  or what it thinks she got wrong.
In any event, Ive reviewed everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive seen that Mr M had 
significant mortgage arrears and had also defaulted on credit  in the period leading up to loan 
one. Mr Ms financial position also worsened  over the period  of time Varooma lent to him.   
Varooma will be aware  that the various  rules  and regulations, in place at the respective  
times it lent to Mr M, all make it clear that the extent to which a lenders checks are 
proportionate will depend on the type of credit, the associated cost and the risks to the 
borrower bearing in mind  their financial situation.  And as Varooma was providing expensive 
credit for relative large amounts and there was the potential for Mr M losing his car if he ran 
into difficulty making payments, I think any affordability assessment needed to be more 
detailed and also contain a greater degree  of verification, in order  for it to be fair, reasonable 
and proportionate. 
As this is the case and while  I acknowledge that Varooma no longer  has any record  of the 
checks it carried out, Im satisfied that a fair, reasonable  and proportionate check  would have 
alerted Varooma to Mr Ms mortgage arrears and his defaults. 
Ref: DRN43507212So it follows  that I think a fair, reasonable and proportionate check  would more  likely than 
not have indicated that Mr M was struggling to make payments  to his existing credit. And I 
also think that such checks would  more likely than not have shown that Mr Ms finances 
worsened as he continued borrowing from Varooma. So as Mr M couldnt  repay  what  he 
already owed and his position was worsening, I think that he simply wasnt  in a financial 
position to sustainably repay  any further borrowing.
Consequently, and having carefully considered everything provided, I agree with our 
investigator that Varooma unfairly provided Mr M with all eight of his logbook loans. 
what Varooma should do to put things  right
I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint for 
Varooma to put things right by:
adding up the total amount of money  Mr M received as a result of being  given these 
loans. The payments Mr M made should be deducted from this amount. Any 
payments made after the total repaid exceeds the amount  Mr M was given should be 
treated as overpayments and refunded  to him; 
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr M to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information placed on Mr Ms credit file because of loan one;
removing all reference to loans two to eight  from Mr Ms credit file;
HM Revenue & Customs requires Varooma to take off tax from this interest. Varooma must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint. Greenlight Credit  Ltd should 
put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4350721