K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax  (BOS) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr W bought the policy  in 2003 at the same  time as taking out a loan. He applied for the loan 
and PPI policy in branch.  
The loan was repayable over a 48-month  term. The monthly loan repayment was £232.51 
with the PPI costing  an additional £24.43  making the total monthly repayment £259.94. The 
policy didnt attract interest  and could be cancelled by either  party with 30 days notice 
without penalty.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr W for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr Ws monthly loan repayment for up to 
60 months in the event  of a successful disability  claim  (although  Mr Ws loan was only for 
48-months so the policy  couldve covered the monthly  repayments  for the remaining term) 
and 12 months in the event of unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr W was employed as a civil servant.  He has told us he was entitled to sick 
pay, redundancy pay and death  in service benefit  through his employer. He also says he had 
some savings he couldve used  towards  repaying  his loan should he be unable  to work. 
Mr W has said he suffered from two childhood ailments many years before the sale.  
BOS has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2006. 
Mr Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ws representative says:
BOS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr W wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ws 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BOS should  have told 
Mr W about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr W and the impact 
they would  have had on his chances  of making  a claim;
Ref: DRN40211202The information Mr W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue;
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BOS, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN40211203The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for  Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BOS  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ws case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BOS  
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If BOS gave advice, whether it advised  Mr W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether BOS gave Mr W sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr W suffered  loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr W and BOS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr W know he had a choice?
Ref: DRN40211204BOS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
BOS has provided a copy of Mr Ws credit agreement which was completed during  the 
meeting Mr W had in branch with BOSs advisor. The signed copy is printed  but the contents 
of it usually reflect the information and answers  customers gave during the discussion with 
the advisor. So, I think Mr Ws form likely  reflects the answers he gave during the meeting.
There is a separate  section for PPI which  sets out the cost of the PPI and the benefit amount 
too. Mr W had to select a Yes box if he wanted PPI, or a No box to decline it. On Mr Ws 
form, an electronic X has been placed in the Yes box  which,  as I said above, I think 
reflects the choice  he made during the meeting.  As there was a No option,  I think Mr W 
would have known  that the PPI was optional and he couldve  declined cover  if he wanted to. 
He has signed  the form to confirm the selections  made. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr W knew  the policy  was optional 
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BOS provide  advice?
BOS says that advice  was provided during this sale. Mr W disagrees. Looking  at what 
happened when  BOS sold Mr W the PPI, Im persuaded that BOS provided advice. I say this 
because the sale was made  in branch, and from what  Ive seen of sales made  in branch by 
BOS, they were usually  advised.
An advised  sale also holds  BOS  to a higher standard.  This means  BOS  had to advise Mr W 
with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable 
given his needs and circumstances.
So, Ive assessed  this sale as advised.  
the advice
I dont know what steps BOS took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr W. It seems  Mr W cant remember clearly what happened and there 
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Mr Ws 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  Mr W would have been  caught by the significant exclusions and limitations 
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs.  For example, there  is 
nothing to suggest BOS considered whether Mr W had any pre-existing medical  conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BOS  did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr W given  his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BOS  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BOS did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr W, I do think  its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN40211205-Mr W had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Ws ability to continue to 
meet his loan repayments would have been put under strain if he was not working for 
an extended period of time  even  allowing for his savings and the employee  benefits 
he says he would  have been  entitled  to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr W.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr W. There was 
nothing about  Mr Ws employment or occupation which would have  made it difficult  
for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mr W has told us about  
two childhood  ailments he experienced a significant number of years  before the sale.  
But he hasnt told us he had any ongoing  issues with them after he recovered from 
them as a child. So, I dont think these made  the policy unsuitable.  
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BOS gave Mr W sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what BOS was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr W was given a broad  description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr W was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and disability) and of the costs. I have reached 
this conclusion because  I think  its unlikely Mr W would have taken out the policy without  any 
sense of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be. His credit 
agreement did set out the exact monthly cost. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BOS gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr W agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr W Im not persuaded BOS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr W. Im not persuaded BOS gave Mr W all of the information he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ws representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
Ref: DRN40211206-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr W about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr W has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BOS ought to have done  either. 
What effect did BOSs shortcomings have  on Mr W? To what extent  did Mr W suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BOS  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr W. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr W suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr W would have  
still taken out the policy,  had BOS  done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BOS took the steps it should  have done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr W, I have found that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr W has suffered  loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BOS had explained things properly, Mr 
W would have acted  differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr W says he wouldnt  have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr W had some interest  in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BOS  advised him that there was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his loan payments in the event he was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
BOS told Mr W the exact premium at the point he applied for the policy  as this was set out in 
the credit  agreement he signed.  So, Im not persuaded Mr W found the cost unacceptable as 
he had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which he agreed to the policy.
Ref: DRN40211207In addition, Im also persuaded BOS made clear exactly what Mr W would get back in return 
in the event he made a successful claim as the benefit amount was also set out in the credit 
agreement he signed. So, I think its unlikely Mr Ws expectations about what  the policy  
would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his loan repayment) were 
significantly different to what the policy  actually did.
As Ive mentioned  above, the information  Mr W was given about the cost and benefit was 
clear. But the information  about other  aspects  of the policy, such  as the limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr W thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr W had consulted a 
registered medical practitioner  about  during the 12 month period before the start date 
of the policy  which  recurs within 12 months  the start date, or for which significant and 
substantive symptoms were experienced or for which investigations have been 
commenced by a registered  medical practitioner  during  the 12 month  period prior to 
the start date of the policy which recurs within 12 months of the start date;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr W 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr W be unable to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr W pause for thought   and may well have caused him to conclude the policy  wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr W from taking out the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr W says he had two medical  
conditions he experienced before the policy  was taken  out, I dont think  better  information  
about this exclusion  would have put him off agreeing  to it. I say this because  he was 
diagnosed with these conditions a significant  number of years before the sale,  and he hasnt 
told us he had any ongoing issues with them once he recovered  from them  as a child.  So, I 
dont think he wouldve envisaged that these would be the main reasons hed need to make  
a claim.  
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr W might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
Ref: DRN40211208disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr W 
from taking out the policy,  Mr W, in his circumstances, still had some good reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr W had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable  to do his job or 
any similar job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  
be qualified  for, it might  have played  into his thinking about what he would do. And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  although  given Mr Ws circumstances,  on balance, I 
still think he would have  been interested in taking out the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr W would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  were  Mr W made redundant, or unable to work  
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr W 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr W would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr W 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr W in the position he would have  been  in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
Ref: DRN40211209taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BOS should  pay Mr W compensation, as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr W thinks BOS misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
BOSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why BOS  failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BOS gave Mr W, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2003 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ws representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find BOS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr W and about the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find that BOS had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr W in a better position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2021.
Asma Begum 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4021120