K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that furniture she received  under a hire purchase agreement  with 
Caversham Finance Limited  (trading as BrightHouse) wasnt of satisfactory  quality. She 
asks for her repayments  under  the agreement to be reimbursed. 
background 
In June 2016 Mrs W acquired a new corner sofa and swivel chair  via a hire purchase 
agreement with BrightHouse. The agreement was for 156 weeks. 
In May 2017  Mrs W complained that one of the cushion seats  of the sofa was a lot softer 
than the others and dipped forward when sitting on it. BrightHouse arranged  for an engineer  
to attend her home. 
The engineer attended in June 2017  and reported  that hed found a fault with the sofa in that 
one of the seat interiors was dipping towards the arm. He affected repairs by placing three 
recon pads  in to the seat cover to level the seat.  Mrs W signed to say she was satisfied with 
the repair. 
In August  2018  Mrs W complained about the repair and said she was still having  issues  with 
the sofa. She said the sofa was creaking and peeling and also complained that the chair  was 
leaning forwards. 
An engineer  attended a few days later. He noted  that the sofa was creaking at its join so he 
separated it and then put it back together noting  that the creaking had stopped.  He took 
photos of the sofa. The engineer  also inspected  the chair but was unable  to find a fault with 
it. He took photos  of the chair. Mrs W signed  to say she was satisfied with the visit. 
Mrs W told the store that she was unhappy  with the sofa and chair  and provided  photos. She 
said she wanted a refund.  BrightHouse says that by this time it no longer stocked this 
particular model of sofa and chair. It offered Mrs W a refurbished sofa but she declined. 
BrightHouse considered Mrs Ws complaint and as a gesture of goodwill offered  her a new 
sofa from its catalogue. It said she could choose  any of the sofas that were available.  Mrs W 
declined the offer as she said she wanted a refund  of her payments instead. BrightHouse  
said that the service  it offered was a rent to buy and so the money paid under the 
agreement went towards usage of the items.
Ref: DRN45735752BrightHouses final offer was for Mrs W to choose any sofa that was available from the 
catalogue and it would  also apply a four week discount on the payments. 
Mrs W said she didnt  want  a new sofa as BrightHouse didnt have any that would fit into her 
lounge properly. She said shed been  offered  a refund and because of that had ordered  a 
suitable sofa from somewhere else. She complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mrs Ws complaint  should  be upheld.  She said she 
thought the offer by BrightHouse had been fair.  
Our investigator said that under  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 if a fault was reported with 
goods more than 30 days after theyd been acquired  then the retailer  had a right to repair.  If 
the repair then failed then the consumer would have the right to reject.  
She said Mrs W had first complained about a problem with one of the seats  of the sofa 
around a year after shed  acquired it. BrightHouse had sent out an engineer  who had 
reported hed found a fault and repaired it. Mrs W had complained  about further problems 
with the sofa in August  2018. The investigator  said she thought these appeared to be new 
issues (creaking noise  and peeling cushions) so she couldnt fairly say that the first repair  
had been unsuccessful.  These new issues also appeared to have been  resolved and she 
didnt think the photos taken by the engineer had shown any peeling  of the cushions.
Our investigator appreciated that BrightHouse had been concerned  about  the delay in Mrs W 
raising her second complaint as over a year had passed since  her original complaint. But our 
investigator said taking  into account  Mrs Ws personal circumstances and her health 
problems that a delay in reporting the problems  with the sofa was understandable as it 
wouldnt have been a priority for her..
Our investigator said that after the visit in August 2018 there  wasnt any evidence  that 
showed there were  other issues with the sofa or that the repairs that had been carried  out 
had failed. So she didnt  think  Mrs W had a right to reject the furniture.
Our investigator also said that as engineers reports had indicated the faults  had been  
repaired and there wasnt further evidence to show the sofa was faulty she thought 
BrightHouse had gone beyond what this service  would expect with its offer and so she 
wouldnt ask it do more.
Mrs W disagreed  with our investigators view.  She said the sofa hadnt been repaired 
properly in June  2017. But due to her health problems she hadnt been  able to report  it to 
BrightHouse any earlier than August 2018.  She said she no longer needed a new sofa 
having now replaced it from another shop and when BrightHouse  had made its offer it hadnt 
anything that wouldve  suitable.
Mrs W also provided photos  and a short video of the sofa and chair. She said the furniture 
wasnt fit for purpose and she wanted  to be reimbursed the payments she made  from the 
date of the failed repair in June 2017.
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN45735753Ive seen that the sofa has now been returned to BrightHouse and the agreement  ended.  Im 
also aware that Mrs W replaced this furniture  from a different place so now has no 
requirement for a new sofa. Mrs W had asked whether she could select another item (but 
equal in value to a new sofa) however BrightHouse has declined  this request. However, the 
offer to select a new sofa remains open. 
Mrs W complains that the sofa wasnt of satisfactory quality due to problems with one of the 
seats, peeling  on the cushions  and that it made creaking noises. Under the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (The Act) goods shouldnt be faulty or damaged when you receive them.  If 
they are and more  than 30 days has passed since taking out the agreement then the retailer 
has an opportunity to repair them before the consumer can reject  them.  
However, if goods develop faults overtime this doesnt necessarily mean they werent  of 
satisfactory condition at the point of sale as faults can occur for other reasons such as wear 
and tear. And so if a faults arises six months  or more after the point of sale then the onus 
rests with the consumer  to prove  that the problem was either present or developing when 
they acquired it. 
Looking at the evidence Mrs W made  two complaints to the BrightHouse  about the sofa in 
May 2017 and August 2018  and one about  the chair in August 2018. I can understand why 
Mrs W feels shes been put in a difficult position because her health problems meant  she 
wasnt able to make her complaints promptly. But I do need to look at the evidence  thats  
available when deciding  whether Mrs W had the right to reject  the furniture and be 
reimbursed the payments  shes made  under the agreement.
Ive seen from the engineers report that was prepared  in June 2017 that hed found that one 
of the sofas seats  dipped  towards the sofa arm. The report says this was repaired and Ive 
seen that Mrs W signed  to say she was satisfied with the visit. There were  also photos taken 
of the sofa.
Mrs W says this first sofa repair didnt work and it remained faulty. She raised a further  
complaint in August 2018. There are two reports prepared by the engineer for this second 
visit, one for the sofa and the other  for the chair.  The report for the chair says that Mrs W 
complained that it was dipping forward. But the engineer says no fault could be found. Mrs 
W has signed the report about the chair to say she was satisfied  with the visit. 
The report  for the sofa says Mrs W had complained  about a cushion  filling,  the sofa creaking 
and that the sofa was peeling. The engineer says he found the sofa frame was creaking as 
the brackets joining the two parts were rubbing  together. He says he separated the sofa and 
then joined  it back and the noise stopped. Mrs W again signed to say she was happy about  
the visit. Theres no mention of the peeling or of the cushion filling  in this report.
BrightHouse has said these visits were  all successful in repairing the issues.
At each  of the visits the engineer also took photos of the items hed inspected  and /or 
repaired. Mrs W has also sent in photos and some  short videos of the sofa and chair.
I accept Mrs W wasnt  in a position  to complain for a second  time earlier  than August 2018  
because shed also had to deal with significant  health issues  between  her two complaints. 
But I dont think the faults Mrs W raised  about  the sofa in her second complaint were about  
the same  problem of the cushion  seat dipping towards the sofa arm which  shed raised in 
Ref: DRN45735754May 2017. So I dont  think  I can reasonably say that theres enough evidence to say the fault 
with the dipping seat wasnt repaired at the first visit. 
Ive also looked  carefully at the videos and photos provided by Mrs W as well as those 
provided with the reports from the engineers. Mrs W says that her videos and photos were 
taken shortly after both the first and second  repair visits had taken place. 
Ive seen that the photos of the sofa cushions provided in the reports  appear to be in good  
condition with no obvious evidence of peeling. Mrs W has provided photos of marks or 
wearing of the leather parts of the sofa.  But Im not able to say how significant this is or what  
has caused it. The engineer didnt address this in his second report  though  Mrs W signed to 
say she was satisfied  with his visit. I dont think I can reasonably  say that the evidence  
provided by Mrs W of the peeling is enough to show that the sofa was faulty  and not of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
Mrs W has also provided video evidence that the creaking  issue  with the sofa remained after 
the repair visit but unfortunately I didnt find the videos very clear.  I also dont think  the 
videos alone were enough  for me to say there was an inherent fault with the sofas frame.
The video Mrs W sent in of the chair  wasnt  linked  to the issue  shed raised of it dipping  
forward and the photo in the engineers report showed the chair to be in a good condition. 
The engineer said no fault could be found  and Mrs W signed to say she agreed at the time of 
his inspection.  
So looking  at the evidence I cant say Mrs W has provided enough evidence for me to find 
that the sofa or the chair had either been  developing faults or been faulty at the point of sale.  
As I cant  say that either the sofa or the chair  werent of satisfactory quality at the point of 
sale Mrs W doesnt have the right to reject  either  of these  items. 
BrightHouse had offered Mrs W the option  of swapping the sofa for any new one in its 
catalogue and keep the terms  of her agreement the same so she wouldnt need  to pay any 
extra for it. Mrs W rejected this offer and purchased furniture from another  store  as she said 
BrightHouse had nothing  suitable. This was Mrs Ws choice but I think this offer from 
BrightHouse was fair in the circumstances and wouldve addressed her concerns about the 
sofa. 
The sofa has now been collected from Mrs W and the agreement ended. BrightHouse 
operates a rent-to-own service which means that customers  take out a hire purchase 
agreement for various items, paying  over the agreed  length of the contract. The item isnt 
owned by the customer until the final payment is made. If the goods are in good condition 
then you can return them and end the contract, and if this is accepted  by BrightHouse then 
nothing further  needs to be paid. Alternatively, items  can be returned  and the agreement  
ended once 50% of the credit  has been paid. So under the terms of the agreement  there  is 
no reimbursement of payments due to Mrs W even though she now no longer has the sofa.
Ref: DRN45735755For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint and Im not asking 
BrightHouse to do more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4573575