K820x#14Complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank plc sold him an account on the basis of a pre-arranged 
overdraft and favourable overdraft  terms. In 2017 Lloyds increased its overdraft charges 
without giving Mr A any alternatives. 
Mrs A is party to this complaint as the joint account holder, but Mr A tells us that theyve 
agreed the account is his responsibility.
Background
Mr A told us the account was opened around 11 years ago. He and his wife paid a monthly 
fee for the account, but they were  attracted  to it because  of the favourable  overdraft terms. 
They regularly made use of the £10,000  overdraft facility
In August  2017,  Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs A to give them notice that it was changing its 
overdraft charges. Mr A told us he and his wife were  separated and the letter probably went  
to Mrs As address and Mr A never saw it. From 2 November 2017 to 2 February 2018, 
Lloyds charged  a reduced tariff and the full tariff was charged  after that. Mr A wants  Lloyds 
to either  refund the overdraft  charges from 2 November 2017, or refund the monthly account 
fee from the date the account  was opened.
Lloyds didnt agree  that it had done anything wrong. But it refunded £100 of its fees as a 
gesture of goodwill and credited the account  with £24 to cover the costs  of Mr As phone call.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that 
Lloyds had met its obligations to keep Mr and Mrs A informed about any changes to its 
terms.
Mr A didnt agree. He said,  in summary, that:
Lloyds sold him the account on the basis of the beneficial overdraft charges. It increased  
the fees  from around  £95 a month to around £400  a month - when he was using  the 
facility to its full extent and had no way of repaying it.
He didnt receive notification of the increase, although he accepts this is not the banks 
fault. But when he told the bank, in February  or March 2018,  that he hadnt been aware 
of the change, the bank did nothing to give him the details he needed or to offer him 
help with finding  alternatives  to the overdraft.  He was left having no choice but to pay 
the charges which, he says,  is in breach of the Consumer  Rights Act.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN47907452Mr A told us he and his wife opened  the account  around 11 years  ago. And he says he was 
attracted to the account because of the pre-arranged overdraft and its preferential  charges. 
But banks are entitled to keep their account offerings under review and to change their terms 
or alter the associated  rates  of interest  or fees. It was for Mr and Mrs A to decide  whether 
the account met all of their needs  or whether there were  more attractive offers  elsewhere. So 
the fact that the bank changed the way it charged  for the arranged  overdraft - in Mr and 
Mrs As circumstances, making it more expensive  for them - doesnt mean it wasnt  the right 
account for them when they applied for it.
Our investigator has already explained that he didnt think  Lloyds had done  anything  wrong 
because it had written to Mr and Mrs A in August 2017 to give them  notice of the changes. 
And Mr A accepts that, because he hadnt  told Lloyds that hed moved out of the family 
home, the bank isnt at fault for not notifying him.
Ive considered carefully the point Mr A raised in response to our investigators view.  He 
says that when he phoned  the bank  in February  or March 2018  it should have, at this 
point, given him help realising that he was trapped in the overdraft. And, because  it didnt, it 
is in breach of the Consumer Rights Act. Im sorry, but I dont agree. As noted earlier, Lloyds  
had fulfilled its obligation to notify  Mr and Mrs A of the change. And it wasnt Lloyds fault that 
Mr A didnt receive its letter. When Mr A phoned it, the new tariff was in place. Lloyds says it 
offered the details  of its customer support unit which may have been able to assist  Mr A in 
putting an alternative solution  in place. In doing so, I think  Lloyds fulfilled its obligation to 
offer help.
Im pleased that Mr A was able to arrange  a loan to repay the overdraft a few months later, 
although I appreciate this is still more costly than the previous arrangement.
Lloyds did refund some fees as a gesture of goodwill and, overall,  I dont think  it has treated 
Mr and Mrs A unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4790745