K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) lent him money 
that he couldnt afford to repay.
Mr K wants  Sunny  to pay him compensation and remove the loans  from his credit file.
Mr K is represented in his complaint by a claims management company (CMC).
background
Mr K took 22 instalment  loans with Sunny between October 2015 and August 2016. The 
loans varied in amount from £100  to £500.
Mr K says that he couldnt afford  the loans so ended up borrowing further to keep up with his 
repayments.
The adjudicator recommended Mr Ks complaint be upheld  in part. She thought Sunny 
shouldnt have agreed loans six to 13 and loans 19 to 22. She recommended that Sunny 
refund the interest and charges that Mr K had paid on the affected loans.
The adjudicator recommended that Sunny remove loans six to 13 and loans 19 to 22 entirely 
from Mr Ks credit  file. 
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators  recommendation. It said that it carried out 
adequate affordability checks each time. And that based on these, Mr K could afford  to repay  
the loans.
Sunny said that it offered Mr K a small amount of credit in relation to his income.  
Sunny said that it offered customers a flexible  product which means  they can choose to 
borrow up to four loans  at a time.  Sunny didnt  agree  that having multiple loans  open  was an 
indication that the lending  was unsustainable for Mr K.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
When Sunny  lent to Mr K, the regulator  was the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) and the 
relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  The 
CONC carried guidance for lenders about responsible  lending.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr K could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
Ref: DRN48187692With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr K could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the customer should  be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K didnt disagree with the adjudicators opinion not to uphold  loans  one to five and loans 
14 to 18. Because of this, I dont  think there  is any ongoing dispute about  these loans.  So I 
wont be making a decision about  this lending.  But as the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship that Mr K had with Sunny, I will take them in to account  when  considering his 
other loans.
loans six to 13
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr K with a view to seeing if 
there was a point  at which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should  have  realised that it shouldnt 
have given Mr K any more loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ks case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
six.
Ref: DRN48187693Loan six was the sixth loan that Mr K had taken out in less than three weeks. Each  of the 
loans that Mr K had taken  had been  repayable in instalments.  But Mr K regularly paid the 
loans off much earlier than planned. I think that this pattern  of frequent borrowing and 
repaying early indicated that Mr K was having problems managing his money. 
Mr K took out loan six the day after hed repaid three of his earlier loans. Although  the 
amounts Mr K continued  to borrow sometimes fluctuated, he often had more than one loan 
open at a time. 
In the first month of borrowing, Mr K took out eight  separate instalment loans. And he 
continued to borrow  multiple times in the same month.  So  Mr K wasnt  making  any real 
inroads into what he owed Sunny and his indebtedness was being prolonged. This meant 
that Mr K had been paying large  amounts of interest to, in effect;  service  a debt to Sunny 
over a long period.
I consider that Sunny  should have taken this as an indication  that Mr K had become reliant 
on short  term lending. And that he was in all likelihood using short  term loans for everyday 
living costs  rather than to help with unexpected expenses.
There was then a gap of just under seven  months  between repaying loan 13 and applying  
for loan 14. I consider that this was enough to effectively break the lending chain. Subject to 
any other information or evidence to the contrary, it seemed reasonable of Sunny to treat 
loan 14 as the start of a new chain of lending. 
loans 19 to 22
Ive again considered the overall  pattern  of Sunnys lending  history. I think  that by loan 19 
Sunny shouldve seen that further lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful.  This was 
Mr Ks sixth loan in the same month. And the pattern of overlapping loans had continued. 
Im upholding loans  19 to 22 for very similar  reasons  to my above  uphold of loans six to 13. 
By loan 19 I consider that Sunny shouldve reasonably  seen that Mr K was reliant on short  
term loans and not agreed  to lend more money to him.
I think that Mr K lost out because Sunny lent loans six to 13 and loans 19 to 22 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ks indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time he owed Sunny money was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ks ability to access mainstream  credit  and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
Overall, I consider that its fair to uphold Mr Ks complaint about loans six to 13 and loans 19 
to 22.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr K paid on loans six to 13 and loans 19 to 22;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
Ref: DRN48187694the number  of loans taken by the time of loan six and then loan 19 means that any 
information about loans six to 13 and loans 19 to 22 is negative. So all entries about 
these loans should be removed from Mr Ks credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr K a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint in part and direct  Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4818769