K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in September  2003.  He paid a monthly amount 
for the policy. The monthly  premium for the policy was £41.25  and it covered Mr S against  
not being able to work due to an accident,  sickness or involuntary unemployment. In the 
event of a successful claim the policy could have paid a monthly  benefit  of £683.00 for up to    
12 months.
Mr S says Santander set up the PPI policy without his knowledge.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case. 
Santander hasnt  been able to show us the paperwork from the time and has limited  
information about the sale. This isnt unusual and its understandable in view of the time that 
has gone by since  the sale took place. But where there is limited  information, I will make my 
decision based on whats more likely  to have happened, taking into account  the evidence 
available, what  both  parties have told me and what we know about  these types  of sale.
Ive first looked at whether its likely Mr S was given a fair choice about buying the policy.
Mr S has told us he cant recall the PPI being discussed and he says it was set up without 
his knowledge.  Mr Ss father was present at the meeting when the mortgage was discussed. 
And Mr Ss father has told us he cant recall the PPI being discussed  either.
The policy insurer has showed  us a welcome letter addressed to Mr S in September  2003. In 
the letter it gives brief details of the policy and states  that the direct debits would commence 
on 1 October.
Santander has also shown us copies of the insurers internal records. These records  suggest  
that Mr S requested  the policy benefit  be increased  from £683.00 to £805.00  in February  
2004.
Another record shows that Mr S cancelled the policy in in December 2004. The reason given 
was that he had taken out all his insurances through a different insurer  and had received 
multi-policy discount.
The welcome letter and the insurers record of contact with Mr S is persuasive evidence  that 
Mr S was made  aware  of the policy.   
Ref: DRN45299352The PPI policy was paid for by monthly premiums taken by direct debit from Mr S bank  
account. The premiums  would have shown on Mr Ss bank statements. If the PPI was 
something he didnt  want or had not agreed to, Id expect him to have questioned the 
premiums at an early stage, but Ive not seen  any evidence that he did. 
Taking everything into account  I think it is most  likely that Mr S was told about the PPI and 
that it was optional and he agreed to take out the policy, although its understandable that he 
and his father may not recall this after so many years.
Santander recommended  the policy to Mr S so it had to take steps to ensure it was right for 
him. Looking  at his circumstances at the time I think it was. Ill explain why:
Mr S was working and was eligible for the cover. And he wasnt  affected  by any of the main 
exclusions or limitations contained  in the terms and conditions. For instance he has told us 
he had no pre-existing medical  conditions that would  not have been  covered. So Mr S would 
have been able to make a successful claim if he needed to.
Mr Ss employer  wouldve  paid him some  sick pay. But this policy  could have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and for up to 12 months. So I still think Mr S wouldve found the 
policy useful, especially if he couldnt work  for an extended period.
The PPI would also have  paid a monthly benefit  if Mr S had lost his job, meaning  any 
redundancy pay couldve been used  for other living costs.
Mr S has told us he didnt need the policy as his house was an asset. But the mortgage was 
secured on the property.  Given  the potentially serious implications  of falling behind with the 
mortgage repayments I still think Mr S had a need  for the cover. 
So I think the policy Santander recommended was right for Mr S. Santander also had to give 
Mr S clear  information so he could  decide  whether to take the policy out.
I cant know what was said at the meeting in 2003. And it could be that Santander did not 
give Mr S all the clear information it should have. So I next need  to think  about  whether its 
likely Mr S would  have  acted differently if hed been given clear information about  the policy.  
Mr S agreed to take out the PPI so I think he was interested in this type of cover. And the 
policy was right for him. The monthly premiums  seem  to have been affordable and 
competitive with other, similar polices, from around that time. So even  if Santander had 
given Mr S all the clear information it should  have, I still think  it is likely he would  have gone  
ahead and taken  out the policy.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has told us and shown us. Including a letter  from his 
employer dated  November 2003  showing Mr S left his job around  that time.  Mr S has said 
that if he had known about  the PPI then,  hed have made a claim. As I explained earlier I do 
think its likely Mr S was made aware  of the PPI policy at the time it was sold to him. And the 
PPI premiums would  have appeared on his regular bank statements. So I dont know why  
Mr S didnt make a claim  at the time. I dont know the full circumstances of why Mr S left his 
employer in November  2003. But if Mr S was made  compulsorily redundant he may still be 
able to make  a backdated claim on the policy. If he wishes  to do so he should  contact  the 
policy insurer.
Ref: DRN45299353In summary,  I think Mr S was given a fair choice about whether to buy the policy  and he 
chose to take it out. I think the policy was right for him. And even if he was given clearer  
information about the policy hed still have bought it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and make no award  against       
Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4529935