K821x#15complaint
Miss I has complained that Bank  of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her an 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in 2011.  She paid a monthly  fee for the account 
which provided several benefits  in return.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  June  2019.  
An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat that 
information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  Neither  Miss I nor Halifax added 
any further comments.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent  been  provided with anything  to change my mind,  I see no reason to depart from 
the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision. 
It follows that I uphold  this complaint.
putting things right
Halifax should recalculate the redress it has already paid to Miss I. I require Halifax to: 
Pay Miss I the amount  she paid each month for the Ultimate Reward Current Account
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Miss I has saved  money because of a better rate on her overdraft, loan or savings 
account by having  the packaged  account  and Halifax can show exactly  how much Miss I 
saved, it may deduct these savings from the amount it pays her  but only after it has 
calculated the two points above.  Halifax must  explain  clearly  and simply to Miss I how it 
has worked out any deductions.
After recalculating its offer, Halifax should  pay the difference to Miss I, taking into 
account what it has already paid her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax  must  give Miss I a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN49283942my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I uphold this complaint and 
require Bank  of Scotland Plc to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN49283943EXTRACT OF PROVISIONAL DECSION DATED  JUNE 2019
background
Halifax upheld Miss Is complaint before  it reached this service. In its final response letter  to her it 
explained that it would  refund the monthly fees that Miss I had paid for the account.
When a business upholds a complaint, the way it puts things right is intended to put its customer in 
the position theyd have been in, had the failing not happened. Thats to say that in this scenario,  to 
put Miss I in the position  shed be in had she never been sold the Ultimate  Reward Current Account.
With this in mind, Halifax  deducted the benefit that Miss I had derived by holding the URCA. It said 
that she had benefited  by having an interest-free and fee-free overdraft, and so it deducted   as its 
entitled to  the benefit  from the amount it was due to pay Miss I. 
The overdraft savings that Miss I made were greater than the fees she paid to have the URCA. So 
Halifax said it didnt owe Miss I any further compensation. Miss I didnt agree.
One of our adjudicators  didnt initially  think that Halifax should pay Miss I any more compensation. 
Miss I didnt agree  so she asked for an ombudsman  to look at the complaint and make a final 
decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. Ive used 
this approach to help decide  what  to do about Miss Is complaint. 
After giving  Miss Is complaint  a lot of thought, I intend to uphold it.
I should  start by explaining  that Im not looking into the sale of the URCA. As Halifax accepts  that the 
account was mis-sold, theres  nothing for me to make a decision on in relation to that. But Ive 
considered the additional points Miss I has raised, and how Halifax has put things right.
In response to our adjudicators opinion Miss I said:
I don't think  £1 a day for an overdraft is right and also the fact that they admitted that I had 
been misold [sic] a packaged account to me my point is I wouldn't have had that package 
account i f l had known I had package account if I had known I had to pay £15 a month for 
eight years
By way of explanation, Ive checked the URCAs benefits and I can see that Miss I did in fact save  £1 
per day for every  day that she used her overdraft  which  was regularly. 
Miss I has also said that her overdraft shouldve  been fee-free anyway, even without holding an 
URCA, as she only had a £100 limit. But thats not the case. Halifax charged a daily usage fee of £1 
on overdrafts  up to £300.
I know Miss I has mentioned  the fact that she wouldnt have taken  the URCA  if shed  known shed 
have to pay the monthly fee for eight  years.  Whilst I accept that what Miss I has said may be the case, 
as this is related to the information she was given at the time of sale and Halifax  has upheld the 
complaint, Im not going to make a finding on that. 
Ref: DRN49283944Although I havent made a finding on the additional points  Miss I has raised,  my inquisitorial remit 
gives me the opportunity to check that the complaint has been resolved fairly in the round. So Ive 
also thought about the way Halifax has put things right. And having  done that, I dont think it has 
resolved the complaint fairly.
Halifaxs final response  letter  includes a table to show Miss I fees it refunded, and the deduction it had 
made. 
I firstly looked at the deduction Halifax made. Whilst I havent  calculated this on a pounds  and pence 
basis, Halifax has shown how it reached the figure. And overall, the deduction looks to be fair.
When a business upholds a packaged bank account complaint and refunds the account  fees, it also 
needs to add 8% compensatory interest to each  payment, from the date the consumer paid it, until the 
date it makes the refund. This simplistic  calculation  is to recognise the loss of opportunity the 
customer may have faced   for example, being  unable  to use that money  elsewhere, such as to save, 
or repay  other debts.
Halifax didnt add any compensatory interest to Miss Is refund. I contacted  it and it wasnt  able to 
explain why this was the case  but I suspect its because it intended  to add it after making its 
deductions. 
I understand that Halifax is now aware that this isnt the correct  way to calculate  offers and that 8% 
simple interest  should  be added before any deductions are made.
So I dont think Halifax has resolved this complaint fairly, and although not for the reasons Miss I has 
raised, I intend to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN4928394