K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains about the poor service he received from Barclays  Bank  UK PLC.
background
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on 17 September  2019.  A copy of this is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  In it I set out the background to this complaint.  
And I explained why I thought Barclays should  increase  its offer of compensation to Mr N 
from £100 to £200.
Barclays and Mr N have both responded to say that they accept my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Neither party has provided me with any new information about this complaint,  and both have 
accepted my provisional decision. So it follows that I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. Ive reached the same  conclusion  that I did in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should pay Mr N a total of £200 
compensation to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN45840112copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr N complains about the poor service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC.
background
In February 2019 Mr N upgraded his Barclays  bank  account. He asked an advisor to make sure a 
new debit card wasnt sent out because he wouldnt be at the temporary  address Barclays held for 
him to collect it. The advisor told him no new card had been  ordered  and that when he was ready 
Mr N could come into the branch and request one.
On 20 March  2019  Mr Ns debit card was declined  when he tried to make a payment. He contacted 
Barclays and it told him the card hed tried to use had been  blocked because  hed been sent a new 
one. Mr N says he didnt receive this new card. And Barclays  cant  tell him who has it. 
Mr N confirmed  his new address to Barclays and ordered another card that day. But he didnt receive 
this card either. 
When he complained to Barclays it explained that when an account is upgraded a new debit  card is 
sent out automatically. It apologised that Mr N hadnt been informed of this. And it offered him £100 
compensation for the error.
Mr N wasnt  happy with this response so he brought his complaint  to our service. He wants  Barclays 
to pay him more compensation,  and to send him a signed letter  stating it admits to putting his identity 
and personal information  at risk. Hes upset Barclays delivered his debit card to an incorrect address 
twice, and feels it put him at risk of identity fraud. Hes also told us that Barclays made  it difficult for 
him to make  a formal  complaint about these issues. And that hes since tried to have his card 
replaced at three  different branches and each time has been told the card writing  machine is broken.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. And she felt Barclays offer of £100 compensation 
was reasonable to put things  right. But Mr N disagrees. He doesnt feel Barclays has adhered to its 
fiduciary duty here. So the case has been passed to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Before I give my thoughts on this matter  I think  it would  be helpful to clarify the extent of my role here. 
Mr N has asked me to answer  a series of yes or no questions.  I hope he wont take it as a 
discourtesy that I havent structured my findings here in such a manner. That wouldnt be in keeping 
with the informal service that we provide. But Id like to assure  him that I have considered all of the 
concerns hes raised with us. And I hope he will feel Ive addressed these  in so far as I am able.
We are informal dispute resolution service,  not a court. So whilst the law is something I have to have 
regard for, Im not in a position to make  a ruling on whether Barclays has, for example,  adhered to 
specific regulations.  
Nor am I in a position to evaluate Barclays processes and internal timescales,  or ask it to make 
changes to these. Thats the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Ref: DRN45840113Its my role to look at the circumstances of Mr Ns complaint as a whole and consider whether  
Barclays has treated him fairly and reasonably. Here, I dont think it has. And I think  it would be fair for 
Barclays to pay him £100 compensation in addition to the £100 its already offered. Taking the total 
compensation to £200. Ill explain why.
Barclays has told us that when an account is upgraded a new debit card is automatically ordered  and 
sent to the address held for the account  holder. It says the member of staff concerned cant  recall  the 
conversation they had with Mr N on 20 February 2019. But I have no reason  to doubt Mr Ns version 
of events. And I can see Barclays  has already apologised  that Mr N was incorrectly told a card 
wouldnt be sent to him at that time, and made an offer of £100 compensation.
Mr N didnt become aware that a new card had been issued for 28 days  because  during this period 
the old card that he had still worked. Barclays has explained  that when  a replacement card is issued 
the old card remains active until the replacement  card is used, or for a maximum  of 28 days. I 
appreciate Mr N is unhappy that he wasnt made aware of what  had happened sooner. Hes also told 
us he thinks Barclays should request proof of identity upon delivery of a bank card. But as Barclays 
was following its processes  correctly  here I cant  say its done anything wrong or treated him unfairly 
in this respect. 
Barclays has shown us it ordered  a second new card for Mr N on 20 March 2019 when it became  
aware he hadnt received the first one it had sent.  It also reinstated his old card so that he still had 
access to his funds in the meantime. 
Mr N didnt receive this second card either, and hes concerned Barclays sent it to his old address. 
However I can see from its records that Barclays dispatched this card on 21 March  2019 to an 
updated address which matches the one Mr N has provided to our service. So I dont think it would be 
fair for me to say Barclays were responsible  for the second card going missing.
That said, I do think  it made a further error on 27 March 2019 when Mr N contacted it to let it know he 
hadnt received this second  card.  I can see from the webchat he had with one of its advisors that he 
was told the card would need to be blocked. But this wasnt done until Mr N got back  in touch with 
Barclays on the 1 April 2019. 
It clearly caused Mr N further distress to learn  that this card had been active  for longer than it should  
have been. And if he hadnt contacted Barclays at this point I think its likely it would have remained 
active for even longer. So I think it would  be reasonable  for Barclays to increase its offer of 
compensation to Mr N by £100, to a total of £200, to apologise for this. 
Mr N is understandably  concerned about the security of his funds,  as well as his personal information. 
Hes told us hes worried about the risk of identify fraud or card cloning following  these incidents with 
his missing debit cards. Hes also suggested  Barclays hasnt complied  with data protection 
regulations. 
Im not in a position to make  a finding on whether  or not Barclays has breached data protection  laws. 
So Mr N may wish to raise  his point with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) if he wants to 
purse it further. But Barclays has shown  us evidence  that both missing cards  have been  blocked. And 
fortunately I havent seen anything to suggest that the missing  cards were  used by a third party,  or 
that Mr N has been a victim  of identity  fraud. So whilst I do appreciate  that these  events  would have 
caused Mr N distress and worry,  Im satisfied that the compensation Ive outlined above is sufficient  to 
take into account  the impact  of the mistakes Barclays  made.
Mr N isnt comfortable  for Barclays  to post him another new debit card, and instead asked it to send a 
card to a branch for him to collect. Barclays said it wasnt able to do this. But told him that it is 
possible for some branches  to print cards. Mr N says hes now visited three different branches to try 
and obtain a new card, but on each occasion has been told the card printing machine isnt working.  I 
understand this was frustrating for him. So weve asked  Barclays if it can clarify some  more 
information about this.
Ref: DRN45840114Barclays has said that one of the three branches Mr N visited   the Mayfair branch  doesnt have a 
card printing facility. But that the other two branches do, although this is only intended  for use in 
emergency cases.  Its also explained that the card machines do require engineering attention  from 
time to time, and given  us a recent example of where a machine was out of order for up to two weeks.  
Barclays says the best way for Mr N to get a replacement  card would  be for him to have it sent to his 
home address. But it has confirmed that he can use the card printing facilities at the other two 
branches hes mentioned. So if he doesnt already  have  a new card, Mr N should  be able to obtain 
one in this way.
Mr N has also raised concerns about the way Barclays treated him when he tried to make a 
complaint. Ive read the transcripts of the webchat conversations he had with Barclays.  In the first chat 
on 20 March 2019 Mr N was clearly unhappy when he found out why his debit card had been blocked. 
But he didnt ask Barclays to raise a formal complaint. He did however explain he wanted to make a 
complaint in the second chat he had with it that day. And the advisor said shed add a member of the 
complaints team to their chat. But Mr N said he didnt need to be put through to the complaints 
department and he would  forward the chat thread  onto them.  He then left the session. 
In a chat session on 27 March 2019  Mr N again asked to raise a complaint.  The advisor added  a 
complaints specialist  to the chat to log the details, but Mr N said he didnt have  time for this and just 
wanted an email address to send his complaint to. I can see he was given this. Mr N then sent 
Barclays an email, which I can see it replied to promptly asking him to communicate  with it via secure  
messaging so that it could  log his complaint. 
I appreciate Mr N wasnt able to log his complaint in the manner in which he wanted to here. But I 
dont think Barclays acted unreasonably or tried to prevent him from being  able to complain. Its not 
uncommon for some businesses  to refrain from dealing  with matters like this over email  as its not 
always considered a secure form of communication.   
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr N a total of £200 compensation 
to resolve this complaint.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4584011