K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  her payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
as part of a total mortgage  protection plan (TMPP).
background
Miss L took out a mortgage  in 2005 which was set up without PPI.
Around 9 months  later,  when she took out a further advance on her mortgage, Miss L also 
took out TMPP cover to protect her mortgage  repayments in the event of accident, sickness 
and unemployment.  
Miss L was unhappy with Bank of Scotlands response when she complained  about  the way 
it sold her PPI, so she brought her complaint to us.
We investigated how the PPI was sold to Miss L. Our adjudicator didnt recommend  
upholding her complaint.   
Miss L disagreed with our adjudicator. Her main  complaint is that Bank of Scotland didnt 
make her aware that the PPI was optional and that it wasnt a condition  of her mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ls complaint. Heres why I say this.
Bank of Scotland sold the PPI to Miss L over the phone. Theres  no call recording available. 
So I cant know exactly what was discussed about  the PPI when  Miss L arranged the cover.  
And, after so long, it wouldnt be reasonable to expect her to recall exactly  what  was said at 
the time.  This means that what Miss L says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold her complaint . I must look at all the available  information and take into account the 
wider circumstances.  I have to be impartial and decide what I think  is most likely to have 
happened.  
I think that Bank of Scotland  made  Miss L aware  that the PPI was optional and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because shed had her mortgage for some time without PPI  so I think 
shed have known  it was up to her to choose if she wanted to add it to her account. 
Ive also seen some of the further advance paperwork, including  the mortgage offer that 
Bank of Scotland sent Miss L when she applied for the further advance. This clearly says 
that she didnt  have to take out any PPI with her mortgage. 
Ref: DRN42140622I think its likely that having  PPI was something  Bank  of Scotland  discussed directly  with 
Miss L during the course of arranging the further advance  and she changed her mind  
about taking it out. It looks as if Miss L must have decided she wanted PPI because after 
Bank of Scotland sent her a quotation  for this insurance  in December 2005, it then sent her 
the welcome pack in January 2006.  This clearly  shows  that Miss L had taken  out cover to 
protect her mortgage repayments. 
The welcome pack included a page headed:  Important Information which made  it clear  
that the cover was optional. 
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, due to run for a long period of time - and 
Miss L was increasing the amount secured on her property. Miss Ls home  couldve been  at 
risk if the mortgage payments werent  paid in full and on time - and she alone was 
responsible for making the monthly repayments. So, I can see why she mightve  felt PPI was 
useful to have  at the time. And it seems to me most likely that Miss L was persuaded of the 
benefits of protecting her mortgage  monthly  repayments from that point on and she decided  
to buy cover.  On balance,  I cant fairly  say that the policy wasnt  presented  as optional or 
that Miss L didnt choose to have it.
Bank of Scotland says it recommended  PPI to Miss L. If a financial business makes a 
recommendation about PPI it has to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it 
recommends is suitable as well as giving  important policy information in a clear way. 
It looks like PPI was suitable  for Miss L based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances when 
the policy was sold. 
She was eligible for the cover. And although Miss L had some sick pay entitlement through  
work this doesnt mean that Bank of Scotlands  recommendation  was unsuitable.  
The policy couldve  paid out for up to 12 months per claim  significantly longer than shed 
have been able to rely on getting  sick pay through work. And it wouldve paid out on top of 
sick pay from work, which I think couldve  been useful if Miss L found she had extra  costs  as 
a result of being too unwell to go back to work.  
As well as this, PPI couldve protected Miss L if she lost her job unexpectedly and was out of 
work. Repeat claims were  possible so the policy provided Miss L with long term cover. 
Having PPI meant Miss L could be sure she would be able to make her mortgage monthly 
repayments even  if she couldnt work. I think this couldve been an important consideration 
at the time for Miss L  even if shes now forgotten this. And I think PPI was suitable for her, 
looking at what I know about  her circumstances at the time.
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Miss Ls case. So, I dont  think having more information about things the policy  didnt cover 
wouldve affected her decision to take it out.
Miss L couldve  seen  information  about  the cost and benefits of the PPI in the quotation 
letter sent to her. 
And she chose to take out the cover when she didnt have to. She didnt take out other  
insurance that was also on offer as part of the TMPP. So she seems to have specifically  
wanted just the PPI at the time and selected the cover option she was happy  to pay for. 
Ref: DRN42140623Miss L wouldve also been able to see that she could cancel the insurance without paying 
anything if she changed her mind and decided she didnt want  it during the cancellation 
period. And, as it was a policy she paid for each month, she couldve cancelled  anytime  
afterwards without any extra cost if she had wanted to.   
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold.  But I think 
Miss L still wouldve  decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed as it gave her 
useful protection  in her particular situation. I dont think  better  information  wouldve stopped  
Miss L buying PPI. So I dont find she has lost out as a result of anything  Bank  of Scotland 
did wrong during  the sales process.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4214062