K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004 to 
protect a mortgage. Mrs S says Newcastle Building  Society (NBS) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
NBS had to make Mrs S aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent  before adding it to 
her mortgage. Mrs S has told us that some of the documents provided  by NBS contain  
inaccuracies. But the mortgage application  form for the mortgage  Mrs S took out in 2004  had 
a separate section for PPI with clear options to either accept or decline the policy where  the 
option to take the policy  has been  selected  along with a level of cover.  The mortgage 
application has also been signed  by Mrs S in agreement with the selections  made.  So 
overall I think NBS made it clear  that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may not remember  this.
NBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs S got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information NBS gave Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had of making her 
repayments which included generous  sick pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition 
to Mrs Ss sick pay.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ss circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means NBS doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said - including what shes said about having  a 
secure job and redundancy being  unlikely. But I still think it was possible that Mrs S could be 
made redundant and the PPI covered circumstances other  than redundancy. So these points  
dont change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 May 2019
Ref: DRN42539822Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4253982