K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about the end of lease charges for refurbishment hes been asked to pay by 
Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex).
background
Mr C took receipt of a new car in March 2016.  He financed the deal through  a hire 
agreement with Lex. 
He was due to hand the car back at the end of the hire period in December  2018  but before  
doing so he called Lex as hed noticed some damage to the cars upholstery.  He asked them  
for a list or any information they had about  costs and he cancelled  the collection and 
inspection that was due later that day. 
He didnt receive any information from Lex about  potential repair  costs  so he organised  his 
own repairs. But he was disappointed to subsequently discover there was a charging  matrix 
that Lex could  have provided.  He noted that if hed followed that guidance he would  have 
paid about £400 to refurbish the damage  on his car, rather than the £960 itd cost him.
Lex accepted  that they should have provided Mr C with information about  how much they 
charged for different types of repair. They noted that when Mr C had returned his car, 
damage to two doors had been identified  that they were charging him for. So they offered to 
reduce Mr Cs outstanding bill by £170  to compensate him for the mistake. But they 
explained that they could  no longer  examine the damage that Mr C had already had repaired 
so they could not agree to refund  him for what he suggested were  inflated repair costs. 
So Mr C referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided his opinion. He 
thought Mr C had been disadvantaged by not being  provided with the charging matrix and he 
also thought Lex should have provided him with a copy of the inspection guidelines. He 
thought it wasnt  good enough to simply suggest they were available  for him to review on the 
website. He thought a fair resolution  would be for Lex to refund 50% of what he had paid out 
to have the car repaired. He calculated  this to be £320.
Lex didnt agree with the adjudicators suggestion. They explained  that Mr C had been 
provided with a link to the relevant industry guidelines that set out the condition  the car 
would need to be returned in. They said the repair costs, identified  on their damage matrix, 
varied greatly so it was unfair to suggest  they should  refund  half of what  Mr C had paid when 
it wasnt clear  what the damage  was that had been  repaired. They  asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Lex so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN42462652Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired  his car under a hire agreement.  This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.  
Mr Cs responsibility to return the car in a satisfactory condition  was set out in the scheme 
rules he was provided with by Lex at the beginning of the agreement.  These explained that 
Lex would  use the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Associations  (BVRLAs) guidelines on 
what would  be considered normal wear and tear. They  said Mr C would  be charged for any 
damage that was considered in excess of that standard.
He was provided with a link to these guidelines and whilst I think  it would have been  better  to 
provide a hard copy of the standard  I think there  was sufficient information for Mr C to make 
an assessment of what damage  would likely  be considered excessive.
Mr Cs concern is that Lex didnt provide him with a cost matrix that explained what  they 
would charge him for the damage  hed assessed  was beyond normal wear and tear. He 
suggests that this failure led him to have repairs completed for more than was necessary.
Lex have accepted that they failed to supply  Mr C with that cost matrix so the issue here is 
how much  it would be fair to ask Lex to compensate him for that mistake.
Ive seen receipts that confirm Mr C paid £960.36  for repairs  to the bumper; interior trim 
components; a repair to the upholstery and refurbishment to all four wheels.
Lexs de-hire damage charge matrix shows that alloy wheel refurbishment will be charged 
at £56 per wheel. So I think the charge would  clearly have  been  £224 if Mr C had returned 
the car without repairing  the wheels. The charge on the matrix is not ambiguous. Theres 
only one charge for alloy wheel refurbishment. So I think Lex should refund the difference  
between the £320 Mr C paid and the £224 they would have charged  him. Thats  a refund of 
£96.
Similarly, there is only one applicable charge of £31 on the matrix for soft trim repair. So I 
think its very likely  that if Mr C returned  his car without repairing it himself, Lex would have 
charged him £31. Mr C paid £180 because he hadnt been  made  aware of that. So I think 
Lex should also refund  the difference which is £149.
Mr C says he had several  areas  of plastic trim replaced. The damage matrix says a charge 
of £46 will be made for interior trim repairs but the exact repairs that were commissioned by 
Mr C havent been documented. So I dont think it would be fair to ask Lex to refund any of 
the charges Mr C incurred  having  the trim refurbished as its unclear whether these charges 
would have been less if hed returned  the car rather than repairing it.
Mr C paid £350 to repaint  the front and rear bumpers. The damage matrix says that, in the 
worse case, if they were  only repainted  as is the case here, the front and rear bumper 
repairs could be charged at £150 each.  If the repairs were only small then this cost could be 
as little £99 per bumper.  So it would appear  that, as a result of Lex not providing the damage 
matrix, Mr C incurred a cost for refurbishing the bumpers of somewhere between £40 and 
£152 more than he would have paid if hed simply returned the car.
Ref: DRN42462653Taking all that into account  and the fact that Lex have already  agreed to refund £170 of the 
charge they have made for refurbishment to the doors, I dont  think  the adjudicators  
suggestion that Lex should  refund £310  of Mr Cs repair expenses  is unreasonable. Whilst 
its difficult to put a definitive  figure  on the refund  it seems, as Ive explained  above,  this in 
the right area.
my final decision
For the reasons  I given  above uphold this complaint  in part and tell Lex Autolease  Ltd to 
refund £310 of Mr Cs repair costs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4246265