K820x#14complaint
Mr A says Furness  Building Society  mis-sold  him a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out at the same time as Mr A 
applied for a mortgage. A third party  broker arranged the mortgage, which included 12 
months free PPI cover,  but Furness has taken responsibility for the sale. And therefore this 
complaint.
The policy covered Mr A for accident,  sickness and unemployment. After the first 12 months 
he paid a monthly amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so
the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr As case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr A says he was told he needed PPI for the mortgage. I cant know  what was discussed  but 
Furness has provided us with some of the documents from Mr As sale. Mr A completed and 
signed a registration form for the PPI. I cant find anything  on the form that I think could 
reasonably have led him to believe the PPI was mandatory. And given the cover was free for 
all eligible applicants  for the first 12 months,  it seems unlikely to me that he was told that 
taking it might affect his mortgage application.  Ive thought carefully about Mr As recollection 
but I also have  to consider how long ago the meeting was and how that might  affect  what he 
recalls. Overall, I think its more likely Mr A chose to take the policy out knowing  that he 
couldve gone ahead without it.
.
Furness didnt recommend the PPI to Mr A so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for
him. It did however have  to give him enough  information so he could decide for himself 
whether he wanted  to buy PPI.
Its possible the information the society gave  Mr A about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as
it should have  been. But I dont think he wouldve been put off taking out the policy  if he
had received better information. I say this because:
Mr A was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances at the time and the policys  
terms and conditions.
He wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits,  such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As he couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think  it 
unlikely he needed better information about  the exclusions and limitations.
Ref: DRN48023592Mr A was entitled to six months  sick pay, but the PPI would have paid out in addition 
to his work benefits and for up to 12 months.  It also gave up to 12 months 
redundancy cover. He had savings  worth at least six months salary but the PPI 
would have allowed  him to use them to cover  other living  expenses  whilst not 
working, or to keep  them intact  for any future  needs. Mr A was borrowing a large  sum 
of money over a long time secured against his home. Given the serious  
consequences of missing mortgage  repayments  I think  the PPI would have been 
useful if he was sick or lost his job.
I dont know that the cost (after the free 12 months) was made clear at the time of the 
sale but the PPI was competitively priced  and apparently affordable. So I think its 
unlikely he wouldve made a different decision if better information  about the ongoing  
cost had been provided.
It follows I dont think Mr A has lost out because  of any problems  with this sale.
Mr A asked why the complaint of a colleague  with a less generous  sick pay benefit has been  
upheld. But I can only comment here on the merits of this individual  case.  I would however 
add that the outcome of each PPI complaint will vary based on a number of factors, including 
 but not limited to  when and how the policy was sold,  the price and the benefit it offers, 
the policy terms, the credit product it covers  and the persons  circumstances at the time of 
the sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4802359