K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  the service they received from London General Insurance 
Company Limited  when  they made a claim under their extended warranty  for damage  to 
their robot vacuum cleaner. They also complain that parts of their appliance werent  covered 
by the warranty. 
background
Mr and Mrs H bought  a robot vacuum  cleaner from a well-known national retailer. In May 
2018 the retailer wrote to invite  them  to sign up for another  years  extended  warranty. Their 
current one was due to expire  in mid-June 2018.  Having forgotten they even had an existing 
warranty they decided  to contact London  General  to make a claim because the vacuum 
cleaner hadnt  been working  properly  for some months. 
London General  agreed to look at the vacuum cleaner and arranged to collect it. On the 
agreed date nobody called to collect it. Six further dates were arranged  by Mr and Mrs H and 
it wasnt until a month  later that the vacuum  was eventually collected.  Repairers confirmed  
parts were  needed.  Mr and Mrs H said they were unhappy with the service  theyd received 
so far so London  General  looked into what happened.  It agreed that the service  theyd  
received had fallen below acceptable standards. It apologised for the inconvenience caused 
as a result  of the failed collections and paid Mr and Mrs H compensation of £40.00 which 
they accepted.  Following  repairs being carried out, their vacuum  cleaner was returned to 
them.
Mr and Mrs H found their repaired vacuum  cleaner worked even worse  than before. They 
said theyd only accepted the compensation London General had paid because at the time it 
was offered they believed their vacuum  cleaner would  be returned to them  in working  order.  
Mr and Mrs H contacted  London General again to report that the vacuum was still faulty. It 
was agreed that the cleaner be returned again. Collection was successfully carried  out on  
17 July 2018.  Two days later London General contacted Mr and Mrs H to say the problem 
was with the battery but that batteries werent  covered by the warranty. London General said 
itd tested it with a new battery and it worked fine. It told Mr and Mrs H where they could  
purchase one from and said the vacuum cleaner would be returned.  
Mr and Mrs H waited over three weeks for the vacuum to arrive. It was eventually  returned to 
them on 17 August 2018 and wasnt working. Mr and Mrs H complained again to London 
General about  the poor service and about  the fact that no-one had told them  before that the 
fault lay with the battery.  
London General  looked  into Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. It apologised that its repairer  hadnt  
returned their appliance  in a timely  manner  so it was going to pay them compensation of 
£15.00. But it said the terms and conditions  of the warranty didnt cover  faulty  batteries so it 
wasnt going to take that aspect of their complaint  any further. It said it was only fair that its 
repair agent be able to investigate the cause of the fault but in so doing had discovered the 
fault lay with the battery which wasnt something covered by the warranty. So it hadnt  been 
wrong not to replace the battery. 
Unhappy with the outcome of their complaint to London  General, Mr and Mrs H complained  
to this service. Our investigator looked  into their complaint and recommended that it was 
upheld in part. She thought the terms and conditions  were clear that the battery wasnt  
Ref: DRN45344022covered by the warranty, so agreed  that London General hadnt unfairly declined to replace 
it. But she thought  thered  been an unreasonable delay between the conclusion of the repair  
and the return  of the appliance to Mr and Mrs H (about a month)  which left them without the 
vacuum. She thought that the £15.00 compensation offered for that delay  and when the 
original delays were taken into account too  wasnt reasonable.  She thought that it wasnt 
consistent with the earlier  compensation payment of £40.00. So she recommended that 
London General  pay Mr and Mrs H a further  £50.00  in compensation for the overall  poor 
handling and delays they experienced.  
Mr and Mrs H accepted  our investigators  findings.  London General didnt. It said the £40.00  
compensation awarded in the first instance  shouldnt be used as a basis for calculating any 
subsequent award.  It said it shouldnt be held accountable for Mr and Mrs Hs failure  to notify  
it that the vacuum hadnt been  returned to them. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think this complaint should be upheld in 
part. Ill explain why.
failure to repair
The warranty terms and conditions clearly  state  that certain items arent covered and that 
batteries are one such item. Mr and Mrs H received a copy  of the terms and conditions and I 
think that they are sufficiently clearly drafted so that it is clear batteries arent covered. So I 
dont think London  General unfairly declined to replace the battery. 
Nor do I think London General unfairly withheld from Mr and Mrs H the fact that the fault lay 
with the battery. Its repairer  clearly thought the first repair had fixed  the vacuum. So it wasnt 
until the second time the repairer had the vacuum  that it tested the battery and discovered  
that that was where the fault lay. Once it knew, it informed  Mr and Mrs H. I dont think it 
could reasonably have done  so any sooner so Im unable to agree with them that they 
shouldve been  told sooner that the fault lay with the battery. 
compensation
Mr and Mrs H have said that they only accepted the first compensation payment of £40.00 
because they believed at that point they were  going to get back a fully functioning vacuum. 
They said that if theyd  known the repair was going  to be unsuccessful  and that theyd have 
to send the vacuum back a second time they wouldnt have accepted  the £40.00. That 
seems plausible  to me. 
If I look at all the circumstances  of this complaint I think that total compensation of £65.00  
isnt fair. My understanding is that so far Mr and Mrs H have received a payment of £40.00. 
Its also my understanding that the second  payment (by cheque) of £15.00 was never 
cashed or banked. 
Mr and Mrs H had to make  7 separate arrangements over the course of about  a month for 
their vacuum to be collected the first time they lodged their claim.  When  it was returned  to 
them it was found  not to be working  so they had to arrange to have it collected  again. Whilst 
Ref: DRN45344023this time the collection and identification of the fault occurred much quicker, it took London  
General (or its agents)  almost a month to return it. 
The delays in collection  and return seem  to me to have been  entirely  avoidable and not of  
Mr and Mrs Hs making.  I dont agree  the responsibility for ensuring the return took place in 
July/August 2018 lay with Mr and Mrs H as suggested by London General. It was London 
General/its agents  responsibility to make sure the appliance was returned in a timely 
manner. All in all Mr and Mrs H were without their vacuum for an avoidable  two months (two 
months where, but for London Generals failings, they wouldve had possession of their 
appliance). 
Taking all the circumstances of this complaint  into account I think  that total compensation of 
£115.00 more  fairly  reflects the poor service,  delays and inconvenience  Mr and Mrs H were 
put to by London General.  
I think its reasonable to require  London  General to pay Mr and Mrs H another  £65.00 
compensation for the trouble and inconvenience it caused them. This amount is comprised 
of the £15.00 already  offered (but seemingly not accepted or banked by Mr and Mrs H)  and  
a further £50.00 awarded here. If however Mr and Mrs H did bank the £15.00 cheque in the 
end, then London General  need only pay another £50.00 now. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require London General Insurance  
Company Limited  to pay Mr and Mrs H further  compensation  of £65.00 (as set out above) for 
the inconvenience and trouble caused  to them by the poor service it provided.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4534402