K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  Legal  & General Insurance Limited  unfairly declined  a claim he made  under 
his home  insurance  policy.
Mr L is being represented in this complaint, but for ease Ive referred to all actions and 
comments as being those of Mr L.
background 
In February 2018  Mr L was away on holiday. He was contacted  by a family member  to say 
his home  had been burgled. The family member reported the claim to Legal & General on 
the day the burglary was discovered. She told it Mr L had been on holiday for just under 30 
days, but was due to be away in total for around  60 days.
Legal & General declined the claim.  It said as Mr L was intending to be away from his home  
for more than 30 consecutive days, the claim for theft wasnt  covered under the policy. 
Mr L complained to Legal & General. He said his family member had been checking  in on 
the property, and was due to stay there on the day she reported  the claim.  He said she was 
due to stay while work  was carried out on her own property. 
Legal & General didnt agree to cover  the claim. It said Mr L hadnt notified it that he would 
be away for more than 30 days.  So even  though  he hadnt been away for that time when the 
claim was reported, there was no cover for theft.  
On 11June 2019 I issued a provisional  decision on this complaint.  In this I said:
Mr Ls policy says it will not pay for loss or damage occurring during a period of 
unoccupancy. It defines unoccupancy  as:
 any period during which the home will not be lived in and slept  in for more 
than 30 consecutive days. By lived in, we mean slept in for at least five 
consecutive nights every  month.  
Mr L had been  on holiday for less than 30 days when his daughter reported the break 
in. So had his holiday been for 30 days or less, his claim would have been  paid under 
the policy. I appreciate  that Mr L was due to be away longer than 30 days,  but I dont 
think its fair for Legal  & General to decline the claim. Legal & General asks its 
customers to let it know if the property would be empty  for more than 30 days, as it 
says it can affect the risk. But Im not persuaded that the risk was any different when 
he suffered the loss; it was within the 30 day period which he was covered for under 
his policy. 
Ive also thought about what  Mr L was told at renewal about  his policy and I dont 
think Legal & General did enough  to make him aware that his cover would change  if 
he was going  to be away from the property  for more  than 30 days. The statement of 
fact provided by Legal & General from the renewal says:
How  many days in a row is the property likely to be left unoccupied?
The response recorded is 1-30 days in a row. 
Ref: DRN47180292It doesnt say anywhere on this document that Mr L wouldnt be covered  for any of 
his trip if he was going to be away for more  than 30 days. And it asks how long its 
likely to be empty for. It doesnt ask for the maximum  amount of time the property  
would ever be empty. So I dont  think this would have given Mr L the impression that 
he wouldnt  be covered  at all if he was away for an amount of time that exceeded 30 
days. So I think it was reasonable for him to assume  hed have cover  for the first 30 
days, which is what hed paid his premiums for. 
I also dont think Legal & General has done enough to highlight  this exclusion in the 
other documents from the renewal. It doesnt appear  in the summary, and the policy 
document says Mr L should contact it if he intends  to be away for more  than 30 days, 
but it doesnt say that being  away for this amount of time will affect his cover.  It only 
says:
If the home  is left unoccupied for more than 30 days, the chances  of a loss 
arising increase  and any damage is likely to be greater than it would be if the 
property was occupied.  So, our assessment of the risk would  be different for 
an unoccupied  property.
In the circumstances I dont think this is sufficient to bring this to Mr Ls attention.
From what  Ive seen there are similar insurance  policies  that offer full cover  even  
when the property has been  empty for more than this time. So I think, had  Legal & 
General made Mr L aware of its policy terms, hed have been able to choose a 
different policy  which  would have provided him cover for longer periods of 
unoccupancy. Or he could  have chosen  a policy which did provide  him cover for the 
first 30 days, even though he intended to be away  longer  than that. And had he got 
either of these policies,  hed have been able to make a claim for his stolen items. 
So overall based on the above I dont think Legal  & General can rely on the 
unoccupancy exclusion to decline the claim.
I also think Legal & General should pay compensation  to Mr C for misleading  
information it gave.  Ive also considered that through Legal & General incorrectly  
declining the claim,  it has caused further unnecessary  distress  and inconvenience to 
Mr L. So I agree it should pay £100  to compensate for this.
Mr L accepted  the provisional decision but Legal  & General didnt. It said in summary:
Exclusions can only be highlighted when a customer  calls to query that particular 
situation;
Legal & General didnt sell the policy, so its irrelevant if there were other policies that 
would have provided Mr L cover;
It is immaterial  that the theft occurred in the first 30 days, as had Mr L called hed 
have had no cover from day one of his holiday;
Mr L chose not to advise of a material change to the risk, so its not Legal & 
Generals fault he didnt know  about the exclusion  of cover.
Ref: DRN47180293my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am still upholding  it.
Legal & General has said it would never have offered cover from day one of Mr Ls holiday if 
hed told them hed be away for more than 30 days.  But this isnt what  Mr Ls policy says. 
The policy document only says that its likely  to affect the risk if hes going  to be away  for 
more than 30 days. But based  on what Legal  & General have shown me it significantly 
affects the level of cover  its customers will have if they are away  for more than 30 days. And 
its not clear from its policy schedule or document that it would mean its customers  were  
without any cover from day one, even when theyd normally  have full cover for up to 30 days. 
Because the cover would be significantly affected, I think Legal & General, through its 
literature, should  have made  this clear to Mr L.
The policy document is written by Legal  & General,  so I dont accept its argument that 
because it didnt sell the policy  to Mr L, that it didnt  need to make  this clear to him. 
Given Legal & General has said this exclusion would affect all customers, its not clear to me 
why Mr L should  have to contact Legal & General  mid-way  through his policy to find this out.          
Legal & General could have made this clear  to Mr L. Im not satisfied that it did and I think  
Mr L has lost out as a result. 
Ive already said that I think Mr L could have sought cover  from a different provider that 
would have meant he had cover  for the first 30 days. So it is relevant that Legal & General 
brings this exclusion  to the attention  of its customers. So they can make an informed  choice 
as to seek cover elsewhere. So for the reasons given above,  and those given in my 
provisional decision, I think the fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this 
case is to reconsider the claim  in line with the remaining policy  terms.
It should also pay £100 compensation to Mr L for incorrect  information it provided during the 
claims process.
Ref: DRN47180294my final decision
My final decision is that Legal  & General Insurance Limited should reconsider the claim in 
line with the remaining policy  terms. It should  also pay Mr L £100  compensation for distress 
and inconvenience.
Legal & General Insurance Limited  must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mrs A accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.1
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
1 HM Revenue & Customs requires Legal & General Insurance Limited to take off tax from 
this interest. Legal & General Insurance Limited must give Mr L a certificate showing  how 
much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN4718029