K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in October  2006. Miss H says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One)  mis-sold  her the 
PPI when she tok out a credit card.
background
Miss H applied for a credit card in October  2006. She was sold the PPI at the same time in 
connection with this card.
The policy cost 79p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. It couldve paid 10% of the 
monthly outstanding  balance  for up to 12 months  if Miss H was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Hs complaint. Miss H didnt agree with our adjudicator 
and the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear  that Miss H didnt  have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this. Ive seen 
a copy of the credit agreement and I can see that the PPI was presented  as being 
optional. Miss H ticked the box to confirm  she wished to purchase  it and then signed  the 
agreement.
 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss H so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Miss H got the information she needed to decide if 
it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  she told us she 
was employed and in good health.  So it would have  been useful for her if something  
went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.  
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss H because:  
When the policy was sold,  Capital One got a high level of commission  and profit  share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Miss H about that. Because  
Capital One didnt tell Miss H, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN42116612To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss H has said - but these points dont change my decision. 
And although Miss H has said her family  could have helped her meet her repayments,  their 
situation may have  changed such that they may not have been able to help when the need 
arose and ultimately  only Miss H could have been  pursued for the repayments.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss H any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4211661