K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc reduced the current  account  reserve  limit on her 
mortgage and that it didnt  tell her that it had done  so.
background
In 2008, Mrs H took out a mortgage  with Barclays. The mortgage included a mortgage 
current account reserve facility. That allowed  Mrs H to draw  down  up to £20,000 in additional 
borrowing on the mortgage.
In 2015, Barclays  reduced  the reserve limit to £2,000.  It says it wrote to Mrs H to tell her. But 
Mrs H says she only found  out about  the reduction in her limit when she tried to use the 
facility in 2018. She considers that she entered into a binding  contract  with Barclays, that it is 
obliged to honour the £20,000 reserve limit and it doesnt have the power  to unilaterally 
reduce the limit. 
Our investigator said that he was satisfied that Barclays sent Mrs H a letter saying that it had 
reduced the reserve limit and that the terms and conditions of the account allowed Barclays 
to vary the reserve limit. He considered that Barclays had an obligation to lend responsibly  
and that we wouldnt interfere in a commercial  decision it made.
Mrs H didnt accept what the investigator said. She made a number of points, including:
She didnt receive the letter in 2015 telling her the reserve limit had been  reduced.  But 
the mortgage statements up to 3 December  2015  show  a reserve  limit of £20,000.
The terms and conditions being relied on by Barclays arent relevant. 
It wasnt clear  what the investigator  meant by a commercial decision. Barclays had no 
reason to doubt her ability to repay the £20,000 reserve  limit. It may have assumed she 
didnt need the reserve facility because  she didnt  use it  but she was relying on it for 
the future.  
The investigator had referred to part of the FCA handbook, but she couldnt see the 
relevance of that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN41974402reduction in limit
There has been some discussion in this complaint about what a commercial decision is. I 
dont think that is relevant  to my consideration of the complaint.  We can and do look at 
whether decisions  (including lending decisions)  made by financial businesses are fair and 
reasonable. And we can ask the business to change  that decision if we think it was unfair  or 
unreasonable. But I dont think this changes  the outcome the investigator reached.  Ill 
explain why.
I dont agree that the mortgage  offer gave Mrs H a guarantee that a reserve limit of £20,000 
would be available  for the term of the mortgage. It says that the reserve  is a secured 
overdraft and that £20,000 is the maximum  amount available.
When Mrs H took out the mortgage she accepted  the terms and conditions  of the mortgage. 
In its final response letter,  Barclays said that it relied on condition 9.6 to reduce the limit. Like 
Mrs H, Im not sure I see the relevance of this condition. It allows Barclays to introduce  or 
remove facilities on the mortgage. But that isnt what happened here. It didnt remove the 
reserve facility. Rather,  it reduced the reserve limit.
It its response to us, Barclays said it was relying on condition 14. That says,  as is relevant:
14. 1Unless [Barclays] agree otherwise with you, we may demand repayment  of, or 
reduction in, your Mortgage Current Account  Reserve  at any time.  Wherever  
possible, we will give you notice, however we may do so without notice. Until you 
repay us interest and charges  will be payable in accordance  with these conditions.
14.2 In addition to our rights under condition 14.1,  [Barclays] may vary (either by 
increasing or decreasing), withdraw  or suspend access  to any amount available 
under the Mortgage Current Account Reserve but not drawn by you, and the period 
for which is available. [Barclays] may do this where:

(h) [Barclays] reasonably believe that such action  is necessary for [it] to comply with [its] 
obligations as a responsible lender and that [its] failure to act would negatively  impact 
your ability  to pay [it] any amounts  set out in these conditions .
Barclays has told us that the reserve facility is essentially  interest only borrowing and that 
borrowers would need  to have a plan to repay the balance  at the end of the term. It isnt 
aware of changes to borrowers circumstances and therefore reviews the limits from time to 
time. It added that in 2014 the rules for lending changed and more  stringent affordability 
requirements were in place for additional borrowing and that would include reserve facilities.
Ive thought carefully about what Barclays has said. The purpose of the reduction was to 
make sure that borrowers  didnt use the reserve  facility to the maximum limit without a more  
up to date affordability assessment being  carried out and in view of the revised mortgage 
rules. I consider Barclays has given legitimate reasons to reduce the facility in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account.  So Im satisfied that Barclays had the power  to reduce 
the reserve limit  and Mrs H agreed to that when  she took out her mortgage.  In all the 
circumstances, I consider that the decision made by Barclays was fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN41974403notification
Barclays has produced  a letter dated September 2015 that sets out that it was going  to 
reduce the reserve  limit. The letter  is addressed to Mrs H and has the correct address. And I 
think it is more likely  than not it was sent. So while I dont dispute that Mrs H might  not have 
received that letter, I think that Barclays took reasonable steps to tell her that it was reducing 
the limit. And it gave  sufficient notice that it intended  to do so. 
As far as I can see the statements set out the correct position regarding the reserve limit. 
The letter said that the reserve limit would be reduced on or shortly after 5 December 2015. 
So the fact that Mrs H has a statement from 3 December 2015 showing  a reserve limit of 
£20,000 doesnt mean there has been a mistake by Barclays. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4197440