K820x#14complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc didnt tell her about other products when an 
introductory bonus ended on her existing  account. 
background
Mrs S says it was irresponsible of Bank of Ireland not to tell her about  alternative closely 
equivalent products  paying a higher rate of interest when a one year bonus on her existing 
account was about to come to an end. She only found out about them  from a comparison 
site and had to open a new account from scratch. This led to a delay of a few weeks and she 
lost out on around  £50 interest. She wants compensating  for this.
Bank of Ireland  said in its final response that Mrs S account was designed to be managed  
by the customer online.  It offered an introductory  bonus for 12 months  and it told its 
customers when this bonus would soon be ending. Its extensive range of other products is 
widely advertised. But it doesnt give details  of them in its generic  end of bonus notification 
letters as they are primarily for notification purposes. It has no obligation to list alternate 
products in these  letters.  It just says it hopes customers  will continue  to use its products. Its 
the customers responsibility to ensure an account  continues to meet their requirements.  It 
wont pay Mrs S any compensation.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
Mrs S feels Bank of Irelands communication actively  encouraged  her to leave her 
money in the account that was to lose its introductory bonus.  But he doesnt agree. It 
did nothing wrong saying it hoped shed continue  using it for her saving needs.
It mightve been helpful to Mrs S if Bank of Ireland had told her about  another similar 
product. But it wasnt  required to do so. And Mrs S couldve viewed other available 
products online.  So, he will not be asking Bank of Ireland  to reimburse any lost 
interest.
Mrs S and her representative dont  agree  and have asked for an ombudsman  review. They  
accept Bank  of Ireland was under no obligation to be helpful and draw Mrs S attention to 
another product. But they firmly believe its unethical for it to encourage financial imprudence  
by leaving savings in an account with a vanishingly low interest  rate rather than transfer it to 
a readily available higher interest  paying  account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Bank of Ireland  acted appropriately  by advising  Mrs S that her accounts bonus 
interest rate would soon be ending. But it didnt have any obligation to advise her of other  
products she may want to place her savings in, which would attract  a better rate of interest in 
the future.
And whatever it said it was Mrs S responsibility  to ensure that her account continued to 
meet her requirements. 
Ref: DRN44935342Mrs S was also free at any time to see what other  products  might  be more  suitable for her 
needs including those paying better rates of interest. And as Bank of Ireland says its 
products are widely advertised including online.
Taking everything into account  I dont think Bank  of Ireland has done anything wrong. And I 
dont think I can fairly  or reasonably require it to compensate Mrs S for £50, or any, interest  
she says she lost as shed like.
Although I recognise  Mrs S and her representatives  frustration I dont see any compelling  
reason to change  the proposed outcome  in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4493534