K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage which, until recently, Mr M held with Santander  UK Plc. 
Hes unhappy with how Santander treated him over the sale of his property in possession.  
Specifically, he says Santander:
refused his request to delay possession  whilst  he sold the property himself;
sold the property  too quickly for less than it was worth;
applied excessive costs to the mortgage account; and
made no attempt  to send him his surplus  funds but instead  held onto the money until he 
chased it. 
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 28 June  2019, I set out, with reasons, the basis on 
which I was minded to determine this complaint, subject to the further submissions of the 
parties. Ive heard from both parties.  
Santander broadly  accepted my provisional  conclusion, but wasnt  happy with my finding 
about its comments on Mr Ms personal circumstances. It didnt agree it had anything to 
apologise for.
Mr Ms submissions  were  more detailed, and I summarise them  below, in bullet point form:
hed paid his own estate agent almost  £900  which wasnt refunded when Santander took 
possession four weeks later; not enough  time for him to have found  a buyer and 
advanced the transaction to the point where  exchange of contracts were  imminent;
If the qualified  surveyor  said his property was worth £150,000, how was it fair to sell for 
£145,000 a matter of weeks later;
He wanted  to know if Id seen invoices  for the litigation  costs, and if these could be made 
available to him;
He accepted the interest element of my proposed award, but said the proposed £200 
compensation wasnt enough;  the business  had paid him £120  the previous year simply 
for sending two letters to the repossessed property by mistake.
We explained to Mr M that Santander hadnt  received  individual invoices from the solicitor 
acting for it, but that the work it did in his case was itemised along  with other work on a 
global spreadsheet. Mr M accepted my judgement  that the amounts billed were reasonable 
but said that he intended to pursue invoices from Santander separately.
Mr M made some additional  comments to reflect his continuing frustration at the service 
weve provided, but they arent for me to address here. My focus is on the underlying 
complaint against  Santander.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded to 
depart from my provisional conclusions. Ill explain why.
Whatever agreement Mr M had with his estate agent  was a matter for him to negotiate and 
agree. If the fee he paid was non-refundable, its reasonable to work  on the basis  that this 
Ref: DRN40784322was made  known to him at the outset. If it wasnt then it seems to me thats  a separate  
conversation for him to have with his agent.
Valuing property  is not an exact science; the courts  have long recognised that. Even in 
negligence cases, there is case law saying that variations of up to 20% are not excessive, so 
the variation of £5,000  Mr M is challenging is well within those parameters. I return  to the 
point I made  in the provisional decision; a property is worth  what  someone  is willing  to pay 
for it. 
Here, someone was willing to pay £145,000 and Santander made a judgement call on 
whether to accept  that offer or hold off for a better  price. If property  valuations  are an inexact 
science, then second-guessing  judgements made in reliance on them is even more so; 
especially after the fact and with the benefit of hindsight. I know this matters deeply to Mr M, 
but I dont have the grounds to find that Santander made a bad call when it accepted  the bid 
of £145,000.
Lastly, there is the level of compensation. Mr M says that for the delay in paying him his 
funds, and for the lies Santander told us about  him, a fair sum should be £500.  I should 
explain that the compensation Im awarding  is just for the impact of the delay, over and 
above the interest hes due.
However hurtful Mr M found what Santander  told us about its understanding  of his 
circumstances; it wasnt something  the bank said publicly; it was in its evidence  for our 
consideration of the complaint. Mr M has been  able to rebut  it, and so its had no material 
effect on the decision Ive reached. 
 
And that brings  me to Santanders response  on that point. It rejects my description of its 
comments as mean -spirited, saying it received the information from its solicitors and passed  
it on to us, unaware that it was factually wrong. It doesnt believe that warrants  an apology.  
All Id add to that is that the very nature  of the information means  Santander had a duty to 
Mr M to double-check (with relevant third parties if need be) and made  sure it was accurate 
before passing  it on and using it in the way it did to justify holding  on to Mr Ms money. 
Failing to do that was, in my view, mean-spirited  as it displayed a lack of respect for the 
customer. We made a similar mistake, and have apologised.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and below, my final decision  is that I uphold this complaint in 
part by ordering Santander UK Plc to:
pay Mr M interest on the surplus  sales proceeds  at 8%* simple,  calculated from the date 
of completion to the date the surplus sales proceeds were released; and
pay Mr M £200 compensation.
*If Santander believes it should  deduct  basic rate income tax from the interest part of the 
award, it may do provided it also presents Mr M with the relevant tax certificate so that he 
can, if eligible,  reclaim the tax.
Ref: DRN40784323My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN40784324CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage which, until recently, Mr M held with Santander UK Plc. Hes 
unhappy with how Santander treated  him over the sale of his property in possession. Specifically, he 
says Santander:
refused his request to delay possession whilst  he sold the property himself;
sold the property too quickly for less than it was worth;
applied excessive costs  to the mortgage  account;  and
made no attempt to send him his surplus funds but instead held onto the money until he chased it. 
background
In what  follows, I have  summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented, using  my 
own words.  No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide,  and 
if I dont  mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because  I didnt think it was 
material to the outcome  of the complaint.  Another reason I have  left out a lot of the detail,  and also 
rounded some of the monetary amounts  involved, is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr M when my 
decision is published.
The sequence of events leading  to Mr Ms complaint began at the end of October  2017 when,  
realising he couldnt afford to maintain the mortgage, Mr M decided  to put his home  up for sale, for 
around £165,000. Santander was looking to enforce a possession order but Mr M asked it if it would 
hold off the eviction  so that he could sell the house himself.  Santander refused and took possession in 
January 2018.
Santander put the house on the market  initially at £160,000, but reduced it to £150,000  in March 
2018, having had only one viewing  and no offers. Eventually,  Santander received an offer of 
£145,000, which it accepted, and the sale completed in May 2018. After  clearing the mortgage 
balance  which by now included the litigation charges and the costs of selling  there was a surplus 
of around £4,200.  This remained with Santanders solicitors for around ten weeks and was only 
released to Mr M after he contacted Santander to ask where his money  was.
Santander rejected Mr Ms complaint and it came to us. Our adjudicator  initially rejected  the complaint  
in its entirety too, prompting Mr M to ask for a review by an ombudsman.  On revisiting his initial 
conclusions and seeking  further  guidance   the adjudicator  went  back  to Santander to say it should  
compensate Mr M for the delay in releasing the surplus, and for the distress it had caused Mr M when 
saying why it hadnt released the money immediately. Santander  agreed to pay Mr M ten weeks 
interest at 8% on the surplus (around  £65) and £200  compensation for trouble and upset. 
We put that offer to Mr M but he preferred  to wait for an ombudsman to rule on the other aspects of 
the complaint. The case has come to me to do just that.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
refusing Mr Ms request to sell the house himself
This wasnt part of the complaint to begin with. At first, Mr M said he had no issues with Santander 
taking possession of his property, but he later took issue with the timing. He says he wanted to 
petition the court for a stay in the eviction but couldnt afford the fees (circa £1,000). Instead, he asked 
Santander for more  time but it refused. What I must decide  is if that decision  was unfair.
Ref: DRN40784325Lenders do have a duty to treat consumers in financial  hardship fairly and to provide forbearance  
when appropriate; but context is everything. In Mr Ms case,  the legal process was at an advanced 
stage, and he was asking Santander to delay  eviction  when the available evidence suggests  he didnt 
have a buyer. If there had been a buyer in place, ready to exchange  contracts, I might have taken a 
different view, but as things  stood, I dont think Santanders decision was unfair.
the price achieved  on selling  the house in possession
The duty on Santander was to sell the property for the best price achievable  within  a reasonable 
period of time; its worth noting that this doesnt  necessarily  mean  the highest  price. A lender shouldnt 
sell the property for too low a price to secure a quick sale. Nor should it delay a sale unduly  (during 
which the debt continues to rise) to try and achieve  a price thats unrealistically  high. Its about 
achieving a balance  between  the two. To ensure  that happens, lenders should obtain at least two 
independent valuations, and then market  the property with a view to achieving a selling price at, or 
close to, the independent valuations.
Overall, Im satisfied Santander has discharged  its duty to Mr M in this case. It took all steps that I 
would expect of it to establish how much to market the house  for. It then made reasonable efforts to 
sell it at or near that figure. The property  was only ever the subject of one offer; that was 145,000, 
which was within £2,500 of the lower of the predicted likely selling prices  given by the independent 
valuers.
I understand Mr Ms point that the reduction of £5,000 would have taken several months to be 
reflected in extra interest on the debt. But Santander had to make a judgement on how long the 
property might remain on the market without  attracting better offers than the one it was holding. I note 
that one of the valuers observed that the market was quiet,  and that appears to have been reflected in 
the relative lack of interest, even at £150,000. I appreciate Mr M thinks  otherwise, but overall,  I dont 
think Santander made  a hasty judgement. Ultimately, any property  is worthy what  someone is willing 
to pay for it, and in this case, the evidence  points to that being £145,000.
the additional costs added to the mortgage account
Lenders are allowed to debit a mortgage account  with the costs they incur  in obtaining possession  of 
a property and then selling; its a standard provision  of the contract. But we expect  those  costs to be 
reasonable and proportionate  to the work  done. In Mr Ms case, the adjudicator  assessed the costs of 
selling  just over £4,000  to be proportionate and fair, and having looked at the invoices, Im inclined 
to agree. 
Mr M says the adjudicator  overlooked a further £3,000 or so of legal costs,  and hes right. So Ive 
assessed those myself. Theyre the litigation costs  incurred by the solicitors acting for Santander in 
obtaining possession  in the first place. Ive seen a great many possession  cases, and the level of 
costs that were incurred by Santanders solicitor in the legal action for possession of Mr Ms home  
seem consistent with what Id expect them to be.  
delay in releasing  the surplus to Mr M
On reviewing this case, I wasnt  happy  with Santanders behaviour with regard to this part of Mr Ms 
complaint, which is why I prompted the adjudicator  to reconsider  the point. In the normal  course of 
events, once  a sale in possession has completed, the lenders solicitor should  send any surplus funds  
to the consumer (or the consumers solicitor  if appropriate) as soon as reasonably  possible.  What 
should not happen is that the money should simply  stay with the lenders  solicitor with no one doing  
anything until the consumer cries foul.
I didnt find Santanders  explanation reasonable or persuasive, and Im pleased to see that common 
sense has now prevailed to the extent that the business has agreed with our view that Mr M deserves 
redress for this aspect of the complaint.  The redress we proposed as being  fair is made  up of an 
Ref: DRN40784326award of interest to reflect that was deprived  of his own money  for around ten weeks,  plus 
compensation for his time,  trouble and upset. 
other matters
Mr M is very upset by comments Santander made about his whereabouts  in recent times.  I wont go 
into detail to preserve  Mr Ms privacy, but I do find that the banks comments were  ill-judged, lacking  
in factual accuracy on the detail, and just a little on the mean-spirited side. Mr Ms upset  was made  
worse by the insensitive  way we handled  that information. The adjudicators manager has apologised 
for that, and I do so too, without hesitation. But naturally Mr M wants Santander to apologise  as well. 
Im always reluctant to order  a business to apologise to someone and here its no different. It always  
seems to me that an apology given under duress has no value. But Id like to think  Santander will 
realise that it has something to apologise for, and does so willingly  without me telling it to.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to the further submissions of the parties by 12 July 2019 
my provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part by ordering Santander UK Plc 
to:
pay Mr M interest on the surplus  sales proceeds at 8%* simple, calculated from the date of 
completion to the date the surplus sales proceeds were released; and
pay Mr M £200 compensation.
*If Santander believes it should deduct basic rate income  tax from the interest part of the award, it 
may do provided it also presents Mr M with the relevant tax certificate so that he can, if eligible,  
reclaim the tax.
Ill review my provisional decision after 12 July 2019, or sooner than that if both parties confirm 
theyve said and provided  all they wish to that is materially new.  Theres no need for either party to 
repeat anything theyve already said.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4078432