K822xcomplaint
M F complains The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) carried out an unauthorised credit 
search on his credit  history which  has negatively  impacted his credit score. 
background 
Mr F has accounts  with RBS. In July 2018 RBS carried out a search of his credit  history 
without his authority.  This came to light later,  when  Mr F was considering buying himself a 
new car. But he decided  not to do so because he believed he would be unsuccessful  due to 
his now, lower, credit score. 
He complained to RBS,  who ultimately agreed it had carried out the search incorrectly.  It 
arranged for the search to be removed from his file and offered  £100  compensation and £20 
for the calls he had made. He didnt think that was enough and so asked us to look into the 
matter.
Our investigator agreed the search had had an impact on his credit file and thought RBS 
ought to increase the compensation to £200 (plus £20 for calls),  which  it agreed to. But she 
didnt think a higher  award was warranted as Mr F hadnt shown he had actually  been  
declined for car finance. 
Mr F has asked for the matter to be reviewed. He considers an award of £500 to be fair and 
reasonable for the impact  this has had. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find the offer agreed by 
RBS to be a fair and reasonable  outcome to this complaint. 
RBS has already agreed it did something wrong  by carrying  out the search and I can see it 
has asked for that to be removed. I think £20 for the calls Mr F has had to make to be fair. 
So the issue  for me to consider is whether or not the £200  RBS has agreed  to pay in 
compensation is a fair reflection of the impact this error has had. 
I can see Mr Fs credit score did lower as a result of the search carried  out. But I cant agree 
it went from 910 to 741 as he argues. The report shows his score was 741- fair - and it had 
decreased by 74 points due to the search carried out by RBS. However, I can also see that 
by October, when  Mr F said he was going  to buy a new car, his credit score was back in the 
good category. 
Ref: DRN44697972Mr F argues that he didnt  apply for credit as he didnt want to be turned down, which would 
cause embarrassment  and would again impact his credit score. I can understand the 
sentiments behind Mr Fs argument and I acknowledge his strongly held belief. But he didnt 
actually apply for credit  so he wasnt declined credit or caused embarrassment  and nor did 
that in turn impact his score further.  So none of the things Mr F wants to be compensated for 
happened. And I dont consider it to be fair to ask RBS to increase compensation for events 
that didnt happen. 
I do nevertheless understand the worry finding an unauthorised search  has caused, 
particularly as this reduced Mr Fs overall credit score. And it has taken time for Mr F to get 
this matter put right. But I dont find the impact caused to be more  than moderate  
inconvenience and so the compensation  award should reflect that. In all the circumstances, I 
find the offer of settlement  to be fair.
my final decision
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc has agreed  to pay compensation  totalling  £220. I conclude 
this offer is fair. My decision is that The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc should  pay this sum to 
Mr F, less any amounts it has already paid  within  28 days of receiving notice of Mr Fs 
acceptance. 
Mr F should note that if he accepts  my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties and he 
probably then wouldnt  be able to take legal action over this matter  for additional  
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, itll be purely a matter between him and RBS as to whether the above offer still 
remains open for acceptance.  Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding after rejection of it has 
been communicated. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to 
ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4469797