K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly declined a claim he 
made for subsidence  on his buildings insurance policy.
background
Mr K contacted RSA after noticing cracks  in his conservatory. RSA assessed the property 
but declined the claim;  it said the issue had been caused by defective construction  or 
design which is an exclusion under the policy. It said Mr K needed to show  it was inspected 
by building  control when it was built around  17 years ago. 
Mr K complained to RSA.  He provided a report which said that a conservatory of that size 
didnt need to be inspected by building  control when it was built, so he didnt need  to have a 
certificate for building regulations. RSA still maintained the claim should be declined  based 
on the exclusion. Its reports couldnt  determine  a cause for the cracking  such as drains or 
tree roots. So it maintained the cracking  was due to inadequate foundations.
Our investigator thought RSA had done  enough  to show it could rely on the exclusion. He 
thought the report provided by Mr K supported RSAs position  as it said that the foundations 
of the conservatory  needed to be deeper to resolve  the issue.
Mr K asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said he wasnt  experienced in construction  
and hed hired a contractor  in good  faith that the work would be carried out properly. He said 
he hadnt had any problems with the conservatory  for 17 years until the hot summer  of 2018. 
He said lots of other homes were also affected by this.  
As Mr K didnt agree  the matter has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Mr K didnt  know there might be an issue with the foundations  for his 
conservatory; I dont  consider  hes at fault for the problems  he now faces.  I understand the 
conservatory has stood  for many  years before the summer  of 2018 without an issue, but that 
doesnt mean the damage is automatically covered by Mr Ks policy.  Every policy has 
exclusions and I can only ask RSA to cover the claim if I find it cant rely on the exclusion its 
used to decline it. 
The exclusion says damage caused  by poor or faulty design,  workmanship or materials  isnt 
covered under Mr Ks policy. 
RSAs initial  contractor couldnt determine  the cause of the damage,  so an engineer carried  
out a site visit and dug two trial holes  around the conservatory. The findings  of the report  
were that the ground the conservatory was built on was made ground which  means ground 
that has been formed by material deposited  by man; unlike natural soil. It said that ground 
isnt considered suitable for foundations 
Ref: DRN48613442Mr Ks engineer said the conservatory would have  been exempt from building  control due to 
its size. But RSAs engineers were  still of the view that normal building practice would have 
identified the foundations  needed to be extended  to suitable ground. And I havent  been 
provided anything  from Mr K which disputes this.
RSAs engineers finding was that the foundations  werent sufficient given the ground  it was 
built on. I understand the conservatory had stood for many years  but the engineers view was 
that made ground is susceptible to strength failure due to the compressibility of the material  
used to fill the soil. I find this report persuasive in that other factors were considered for the 
cause of the damage such  as drainage issues or those caused  by tree roots. But the 
engineer didnt find any evidence of this.
I also consider the report provided by Mr Ks own contractor supports this view. It outlines  
the remedial works that could address the problem,  and they all include providing additional 
support to the foundations  through various  means. Based on this report and RSAs Im 
satisfied RSA has acted  fairly in saying the damage has been caused as a result of 
inadequate foundations. As such it falls under the exclusion  RSA has relied on. RSA doesnt 
insure against faulty design or poor workmanship, so it wouldnt be fair to expect it to step in 
and resolve the issue.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4861344