K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that Tandem Bank Limited  has given him an unsatisfactory  service.
background
Mr E raised eight points  in his complaint. Ive summarised them as follows:
Point 1: In October 2018  Mr E closed his bond  with Tandem and asked for a closing 
statement. It ignored his requests.
Point 2: Mr E said Tandem gave  him contradictory  evidence to that which one of the credit 
reference agencies  (CRA) gave him. 
Points 3,4,5,6 and 7 were about how Tandem  handled Mr Es complaint: He said Tandem 
failed to register a complaint  when he asked it to do so and it ignored his requests for details 
of its complaints procedure. He asked it what further  information  it required to investigate his 
complaint but it ignored his email. And it then rejected  it without all the relevant evidence.  It 
misrepresented the nature of his complaint.
Point 8: Mr E asked  Tandem, in writing, to cancel his credit card but it said he had to do this 
by phone which he thought was unreasonable as this is not a requirement in the agreement 
he signed.
Tandem said itd sent Mr E closing  statements  at the time so it couldnt understand why he 
didnt receive them.  It said it didnt contradict any information the CRA gave Mr E. And it had 
a duty to report accurate information  to the CRAs and thats what  it did. It couldnt  accept 
requests to cancel a credit card by email because it needed to verify that the request was 
being made by the cardholder. So it needed him to phone so it could go through  the 
appropriate security  procedure. And it didnt accept any of the points  hed made about its 
complaints procedure.
Our investigator thought Mr Es complaint about the closing statements should be upheld on 
the basis that Tandem didnt  respond to his chasing emails on 14 November 2018  and 3 
December 2018.  He didnt think Tandem had done anything wrong in connection with the 
CRA because itd reported information  accurately even if this contradicted  what was said by 
the CRA.  But he didnt think  Tandem had done  enough to tell him he needed  to phone it to 
cancel his card. 
He thought Tandem had dealt fairly  with most  of the other issues Mr E raised  about the 
handling of his complaint  but he didnt think itd addressed the issue hed raised about his 
credit card. In conclusion  he thought  Tandem  should pay Mr E £100  for not following  his 
instructions.
Tandem thought £100 was excessive for not responding to Mr Es emails about  his closing 
statement. Our investigator responded saying that the compensation also included  its poor 
service over Mr Es request to cancel his credit card. But Tandem  didnt agree it hadnt  told 
Mr E he had to phone to cancel it.
Mr E said he was prepared to accept £100 as an appropriate amount of compensation. But 
he made a number of additional points about Tandems response to the investigators 
opinion. 
Ref: DRN43069482my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E said he accepted our investigators decision but wanted to make  further 
representations on six out of the original eight points  he raised.  Three of those additional 
representations were about Tandems  complaint handling.  But I cant  tell Tandem how it 
should deal with and handle complaints. Its complaint handling is not, under our rules, what 
is called  a regulated activity. If Mr E wants to take his concerns further about Tandems 
complaint handling procedures further he will need  to refer his concerns to the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA).
Regarding point 1 Mr E said he was without his statements  for several  months due to 
Tandem ignoring  his requests. Regarding point 2 he said Tandems response  to his request 
was not helpful or appropriate.  And regarding point 8 he said Tandem didnt explain to him 
why he needed  to phone to cancel  his credit card.
Taking into account all the additional representations from both parties Ive come  to the 
same conclusion as our investigator  for very similar reasons. Mr E closed his account and 
wanted a closing statement. Tandem said it sent it out and hasnt had anyone  else complain 
about non receipt  of correspondence. I think thats irrelevant.  Mr E didnt receive his 
statement. I cant fairly find that any issue with the postal service was Tandems fault.  But 
the problem arose after the statement didnt arrive. Mr E emailed Tandem asking  it to send 
the statement  out to him. When nothing happened  he tried again a few weeks  later.  Tandem 
still didnt action his request  and so he made a formal complaint.  Tandem  has now accepted 
it was at fault by not responding to Mr Es requests  but has disputed the amount of 
compensation suggested. I know  it wont  agree with me but I think  in the circumstances Ive 
outlined and the length of time it took for Mr E to get his closing statement, £100 is fair and 
reasonable for the inconvenience its caused.
In response to information from the CRA Mr E told Tandem that if he couldnt increase his 
credit card limit he wanted to cancel the card.  I cant see there was anything wrong with the 
information Tandem  gave Mr E although  I cant comment on what  the CRA  told him. 
Tandem pointed out that in its final response it told Mr E to call if he still wanted to cancel his 
credit card. But I agree with our investigator  that it couldve made the reasons he needed to 
do this clearer. However looking at all the circumstances of Mr Es complaint  as a whole I 
think £100 is a fair and reasonable way for Tandem  to put things right.       
Ref: DRN43069483my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Tandem Bank  Limited 
must pay Mr E £100 for the inconvenience its caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4306948