K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
Mr H says he was given  no choice  about  the PPI.
background
Mr H took out the PPI policy  alongside  a credit  card which he applied for via a postal 
application in 1999.
The policy covered Mr H if he was off work because he had an accident, sickness  or if he 
lost his job. It would have cost around  £0.66 per every  £100 outstanding on his card and 
would have paid 5% of that outstanding  balance  for up to 24 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint about the mis-sale of the policy.  But he said that 
the compensation Amex paid to Mr H for the undisclosed commission  was fair. Mr H 
disagreed with this view and asked if his matter could be referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
Mr H has said he was given no option about  taking out the policy.  Amex  needed to give Mr H 
a choice so Ive thought  about what hes said. Understandably not all the information is 
available from the time and Mr H cant remember the exact  details about  everything that 
happened when  he took out his credit card and the PPI. This is understandable and isnt 
unusual since it was so long ago since the sale.
Amex has provided a copy of the credit card application.  It looks  like the form was sent to Mr 
H through the post. It seems  to me the form has been completed in his own time and at his 
own pace. Mr Hs details have been included on the form. There is a section about the PPI 
on the application which states:  Please enrol me in the American Express..card 
Repayment Protection Plan. Mr H has ticked the box. He could have  left it blank if he didnt 
want it. Mr H has signed and dated the form. So I think he understood he was enrolling for 
this type of insurance at the time. I think he also likely would have  received  a welcome letter  
which would have confirmed he had applied for the PPI. Overall,  I think he opted to take out 
the PPI and would have  realised at the time that he could have chosen not to take it out if he 
didnt want it.
Mr H made  a postal application  and Amex  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H. That meant it 
didnt need to check it was the right fit for Mr H. But it still had to give clear enough 
information so that Mr H could make  an informed decision about whether he wanted to take 
out the PPI.
Ref: DRN48651282Its possible not all the information Mr H was given was as clear as it could have been. 
Thats not enough to uphold this complaint  though. I next need to think about whether if Mr H 
had been given clearer or better information,  this would have put him off buying the PPI. I 
cant say it would have  done.
I say this because  I can see Mr H was eligible for the PPI and as he was working  and in 
good health, I dont think he would have  been  affected by any of the exclusions to or main  
limitations of the policy.
Mr H has told us he doesnt remember the sick pay he was entitled  to but that he had three 
months but less than six months worth  of savings. I still think this policy  could have provided 
a useful benefit. It would have paid out on top of any sick pay he got and likely for longer  it 
paid for up to 24 months if hed made  a claim.  It would have also meant  Mr H could have 
used his savings  for other important living expenses if things went  wrong. 
Theres nothing which makes me think the policy  was unaffordable so I dont think better 
information would have put him off taking  out the policy.
Which means Amex doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Amex  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Amex got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Amex didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Amex has paid back the amount of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said. But these  points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American  Express Services Europe Limited does  not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But American Express Services  Europe  Limited  does have to pay back to Mr H any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN48651283
Ref: DRN4865128