K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains because Assurant General Insurance  Limited (Assurant) hasnt paid a 
claim under his mobile phone and gadget insurance  policy. 
All references to Assurant  include  the agents  it has appointed to handle claims. 
 
background
Mr P was travelling by coach and placed  his phone  and laptop in his bag, before putting his 
bag in the overhead compartment. Mr P then fell asleep. 
About an hour after Mr P got off the coach, he realised his phone, laptop and power bank  
were missing from his bag. 
Mr P made a claim with Assurant for the lost items. Assurant said it thought Mr P had 
provided false and misleading information and, because of the combined weight of the 
phone and the laptop, Mr P would have noticed they were missing  from his bag sooner than 
an hour after getting off the coach. Assurant also referred to the circumstances of a previous 
claim made by Mr P under his policy, and said it didnt believe this claim was a genuine one. 
Unhappy, Mr P brought his complaint to this service.  
Mr P told us his bag was heavy anyway as there were  a number of other items in it. He said 
his laptop was light and hed asked  the coach driver on his return  journey if his belongings 
had been found, which they hadnt. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said she agreed Mr Ps bag was heavy, so it 
might not have been likely hed have  immediately noticed any weight difference. So she 
didnt think Assurant was entitled to decline the claim for this reason alone. 
But, having  considered the other  concerns Assurant had raised,  she didnt think  the claim 
had been unreasonably  declined.  
Mr P didnt accept our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ps policy allow him to make a maximum of 4 successful loss 
or theft claims for a mobile phone and 4 successful  loss or theft claims for a gadget in a 12 
month period.  But this doesnt mean every claim will be accepted. 
Before accepting any claim, Assurant is entitled to be satisfied that the other terms and 
conditions of the policy have also been  met. This means Mr P needs to demonstrate to 
Assurant that a genuine loss of items which he owns  has occurred. And the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ps policy allow Assurant to turn down a claim if false  or inaccurate  
information is provided. 
Ref: DRN46673252Mr P has provided proof of purchase for the laptop. He has also provided  proof  of usage and 
evidence of blacklisting  of his mobile  phone. 
But Assurant  has questioned the circumstances  of the loss which Mr P has described. Mr P 
has provided us with photographs and descriptions of both the bag and some of the items he 
says were in it. Based  on what Mr P has told us, I can understand why it might  not have 
been immediately  obvious to Mr P that items were missing from the bag when he left the 
coach. So, I dont think its fair or reasonable for Assurant to decline this claim based on 
Mr Ps delay  in noticing the loss alone.  
However, Assurant has also relied  on other reasons when  turning down this claim.  
Assurant looked  into another claim made  by Mr P under his policy earlier  the same  year.  
Assurant has referred  to similarities in the circumstances between the two claims, and has 
provided us with evidence which it says demonstrates both the phone previously claimed for 
and the phone which is the subject  of this claim are currently  being used. 
Assurant has also mentioned the phone which is being claimed for now has been  restored 
since the loss was reported   and as Mr P told it this phone was security  protected,  
someone else would need to have  access to Mr Ps personal information before they could 
restore the phone. 
Because of this, Im satisfied Assurant has what I think are valid concerns about whether  
there has been a genuine  loss in this case.  
This means  I think  Assurant is entitled  to turn down Mr Ps claim, and I dont think it has 
been unfair or unreasonable  in doing  so. 
I understand Mr P has questioned how its possible for the phones to still be in use and 
wants Assurant to talk to the police. But Assurants responsibility here is to assess  Mr Ps 
claim and decide  whether  its covered  under the terms and conditions of his policy. 
If Mr P has concerns about the fact that the phones are apparently still in use then it would 
be up to him to raise  this with his mobile phone provider and/or  the police directly. 
Ive also considered the length of time taken by Assurant to tell Mr P his claim wasnt  
covered. I can see Mr P contacted Assurant on a few occasions to request an update.  But, 
Assurant also unsuccessfully tried to phone Mr P to give him an update. Overall, having  
considered the circumstances, I dont think there  was an unreasonable delay by Assurant in 
making and communicating a decision about  the claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019. 
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4667325