K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) gave him loans 
irresponsibly.
background
This complaint is about six loans Mr Lender  provided to Mr M between  October  2015  and 
March 2017. They had various borrowing terms between one and six months and the 
amounts borrowed  ranged  between £150 and £600  with most of Mr Ms borrowing falling 
somewhere between these amounts. 
Heres a loan table setting out details of the loans: 
loan start date date paid instalments amount £
1 19/10/2015 30/11/2015 1 150
2 04/12/2015 26/02/2016 3 300
3 03/03/2016 14/05/2016 5 550
4 18/06/2016 30/09/2016 3 400
5 17/11/2016 25/01/2017 3 300
6 09/03/2017 28/06/2017 6 600
Mr M said that he accepted some  responsibility  for being financially irresponsible.  But he 
complains that Mr Lender shouldve scrutinised his situation more closely and realised that 
he was in a poor financial  state and not given him these unaffordable loans. 
Our adjudicators overall view was that he hadnt  seen enough to say it was unfair for 
Mr Lender to have provided  loans  1, 2 and 3 to Mr M. But he felt that the pattern of lending  
itself showed that by loan 4, Mr Ms overall borrowing record  suggested hed become 
persistently reliant  on short-term loans and the borrowing was now unsustainable  so 
Mr Lender shouldnt have  given Mr M loan 4, or any further loans after that.
Mr Lender said it was disappointed by the way the adjudicator had investigated the 
complaint. It mainly said it didnt look like the adjudicator had properly looked at all the loans 
Mr Lender provided to Mr M and it felt the adjudicators  view was overly subjective  and not 
properly explained.  
Mr Lender said it disagreed with the adjudicator saying  that the amounts borrowed didnt 
significantly decrease, given that loan 3 was for £550 and loans 4 and 5 were for less than 
this ( £400 and £300 respectively). 
Also, Mr Lender said that as there was over a month between  Mr Ms fourth, fifth and sixth 
loans, this suggested he was not persistently reliant  on short term loans.  Mr Lender said this 
demonstrated that Mr M could meet his living requirements without  the need of a short-term  
loan every month.
Mr Lender requested an ombudsman review.  So the complaint comes to me to decide.
Ref: DRN46281472my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN46281473Im sorry  Mr Lender  feels our adjudicator didnt investigate the complaint thoroughly or 
explain his view as well as he couldve done.  Id like to reassure Mr Lender that Ive looked 
at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same conclusions  as our 
adjudicator.
Ive looked at each of the loans Mr M took out with Mr Lender. 
Looking at loans  1-3, I think  that the amounts  that Mr M needed to repay  wouldve seemed 
relatively affordable  compared with the disposable  income hed declared. Given  these 
repayment amounts,  what was apparent  about Mr Ms circumstances  at the time,  and his 
borrowing history at that time with Mr Lender, I dont think it wouldve  been proportionate for 
Mr Lender to ask Mr M for the amount of information  that would be needed to show  the 
lending was unsustainable before agreeing  the first three loans. So Im not upholding Mr Ms 
complaint about  loans  1-3. 
But given the particular circumstances of Mr Ms case, I think by loan 4 Mr Lender should  
reasonably have seen that further lending was likely  to be unsustainable and it shouldnt 
have provided  this loan  or any further loans to Mr M. 
I say this because  at this point  Mr Lender  ought to have realised:
Mr M was not managing to repay his loans sustainably. This was Mr Ms fourth loan 
since hed first started borrowing from Mr Lender in October 2015, around 8 months  
or so earlier 
Mr M wasnt making any real inroads into the amount he owed Mr Lender.  Whilst 
I accept that loan 4 was for less than he borrowed when he took out loan 3, it was 
still more than twice  the amount hed borrowed at the start of his lending  relationship  
with Mr Lender. So it wasnt reasonable of Mr Lender to think Mr Ms situation had 
improved and he was now asking to borrow because of a new need for a short term 
loan. Even though  Mr M told Mr Lender that he needed the money  to do work  on his 
house and for a car expense, looking at his overall pattern of lending,  it looks  more  
like he had ongoing and long term money problems   and his need  for extra  cash 
appeared to be escalating
Mr Lender  ought to have realised  it was more likely that the real underlying reason 
Mr M was borrowing  further was to cover  the hole repaying his previous loan was 
leaving in his finances each time and that Mr Ms indebtedness  was increasing 
unsustainably. 
Ive carefully considered  everything Mr Lender has said, including its response to our 
adjudicators view. But for the reasons Ive explained, I think Mr Lender shouldve seen that 
Mr Ms indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably  by the time he took out loan 4  and it 
shouldve realised then that it was unfair to continue  to lending  to him. The short  gaps 
between loans 4, 5 and 6 make no difference to the outcome  to my mind,  these  gaps 
arent long enough for me fairly  to say they show Mr M wasnt  reliant on unstainable loans.   
I think that Mr M lost out when Mr Lender  provided  loan 4 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time 
Ref: DRN46281474the length of time over which Mr M borrowed these loans was likely to have  negative  
implications on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for high-cost  loans. By loan 4, Mr M had already  been  indebted  to Mr Lender  
more or less continuously for more than 7 months in a row. And any further 
borrowing was likely  to be detrimental  to his credit rating.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4, 5 and 6. 
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans  4, 5 and 6 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges  from the date they were paid (if 
they were) to the date of settlement
the number  of loans taken from loan 4 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 4, 5 and 6 should  be removed from 
Mr Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ms complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
(trading as Mr Lender) should pay Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4628147