K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Mr P says 
Lloyds Bank  PLC, trading  as TSB,  mis-sold him the PPI.
The evidence available shows the PPI was taken out at some  point between 1997, when 
Mr P opened  his credit card account and 2000, which is the earliest date statements are 
available showing PPI being charged.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Lloyds has very limited information still available about this PPI sale. But thats  not 
particularly surprising  as businesses arent  required to keep such records over such  long 
time periods.  And its also not surprising that Mr P cant remember  much about it either. 
Lloyds hasnt been able to give me a copy of the credit card application  Mr P signed  at 
the time.  This means I dont  know much about how the policy was sold or how PPI was 
presented to Mr P. Lloyds  have sent us an example of an application form that they say 
would have been used at around  the time of the sale. But I cant  safely conclude that this 
was the type of application form Mr P would  have  filled in, so Ive not relied on it.
However, this service has seen quite  a number of complaints  within the period of time 
when Mr P must have  bought his policy. This means weve been able to develop  a 
relatively good understanding of Lloyds usual sales processes then. And were 
generally satisfied  that Lloyds  made the optional nature of the PPI clear and sought  its 
customers consent before adding it to their accounts. The PPI premiums also appeared 
on Mr Ps credit card statements. And had Mr P not agreed to take the PPI, I would  have 
expected him to have questioned why he was being charged these premiums. So on the 
basis of the limited information available, I think its more  likely than not that Lloyds 
made it clear  to Mr P he didnt have to take out the PPI and he actively chose to. 
Although Lloyds cant say whether it advised  Mr P to take out PPI, Ive assumed this to 
be the case. This is because it means  that Lloyds had to ensure that the policy  was 
suitable for him. I dont know how it did this, but from what I know  of his circumstances at 
the time,  I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable.
Mr P appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. Mr P says he was eligible for generous sick pay and 
redundancy terms from his employer.  He also says he had savings and other  assets 
which he could have  used  to make his card payments if he wasnt able to work  because 
of an accident,  sickness or unemployment.  But the PPI would have paid out for up to 
twelve months and in addition to any other means he might have had at the time. So I 
still think he would have  valued the extra security  the policy gave him.
Ref: DRN47057662Ive no reason to think that the policy was unaffordable  for Mr P. And as the premiums  
were paid monthly, he could have  cancelled it if it no longer met his needs.
Lloyds needed  to give Mr P enough information  about the PPI for him to decide  if he 
wanted it. I think Lloyds  could  have given him better information than it did. But for much 
the same  reasons  that I dont think  the policy was unsuitable for him, I dont think  better 
information would have changed his mind about taking it. I still think  he would have 
thought it gave him useful cover at an affordable price.
So from what Ive seen,  I dont think that Mr P has lost out by anything  that Lloyds may have 
done wrong when it sold him this PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint  against  Lloyds Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4705766