K821x#15complaint
Miss L complains about the amount of a loan that was made to her by PayBreak Limited.  
background
Miss L agreed a course of treatment  with a supplier in November 2018 which  cost £1,900   
but she received  a discount of £350  so agreed to pay £1,550 for the treatment.  She 
electronically signed a fixed sum loan agreement with PayBreak for £1,900  at the same  time 
to pay for the treatment.  
She complained to PayBreak in January 2019  that the amount of the loan agreement was 
wrong. It said that shed  electronically signed  the loan agreement for £1,900  and hadnt 
cancelled it during the cancellation period. She wasnt  satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She thought that it was 
more likely that not that Miss L was given  a discount and the full amount was entered  onto 
the agreement  in error. So she recommended that PayBreak should either credit the loan 
agreement with the difference of £350  or rewrite the credit agreement to reflect  £1,550 and 
credit the account  with any payments  Miss L had made towards the agreement. She also 
recommended that it should pay Miss L £50 for her trouble and upset.
PayBreak has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  It says, in 
summary, that the loan of £1,900 was for two invoices  one for £1,500  and another  for £350 
so it doesn't agree that the supplier  has made  a mistake or that PayBreak is liable to credit  
Miss Ls account with £350 and pay her compensation.
Miss L says that the supplier has stopped trading so she wont  get all of the treatments but 
still has the loan agreement. Shes contacted PayBreak and it offered to provide  her with 
alternative treatments. She says that the alternatives offered to her werent  suitable  so its 
offered to refund her the money  that she paid for the unused  treatments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PayBreak has provided the invoice from the supplier which shows  that the cost of the 
treatments was £1,900 but that Miss L received a £350 discount  so the price that she agreed 
to pay for those treatments was £1,550.  It says that she also agreed to pay £350 for some  
other services and it has provided  a copy of a receipt showing £350. But that receipt  doesnt  
show the services that were to be provided to Miss L. I dont consider that PayBreak has 
provided enough evidence to show that other services costing £350 were  provided to Miss L 
and I consider it to be more likely  than not that the receipt relates to the discount that had 
been given to Miss L for the treatments. 
I consider it to be more  likely than not that the price for the treatments that Miss L agreed to 
pay was £1,550 and that the cash price  for the services of £1,900 was included  in the credit 
agreement as an error. Miss L electronically signed the credit agreement. She should have 
read the agreement  before signing it  and if shed done so I consider it to be more likely 
Ref: DRN48663902than not that she would have noticed that error.  The rate of interest under the agreement 
was 0%.
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for PayBreak to refund £350  to Miss Ls credit  
account and, if that puts the account  into credit, to refund any credit balance to her. These 
events will have caused distress and inconvenience  to Miss L. I find that it would also be fair 
and reasonable for PayBreak to pay £50 to Miss L to compensate  her for that distress and 
inconvenience. 
The supplier  has now stopped trading so Miss L wont receive any outstanding  treatments  
from it. PayBreak has offered to refund her for those treatments and her payments have  
been on hold pending this decision. If the refund offered by PayBreak isnt acceptable to 
Miss L, she can complain to it about  that and then,  if shes not satisfied with its response,  
she may be able to make a separate complaint to this service.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Miss Ls complaint and I order  
PayBreak Limited  to:
1.Credit £350 to Miss Ls account  and - if that puts the account  into credit - to refund 
the credit  balance to her.
2.Pay £50 to Miss L to compensate her for the distress  and inconvenience  that shes 
been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4866390