K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that a used car she acquired via a hire purchase agreement with Startline 
Motor Finance Limited wasnt  of satisfactory  quality.
background
In February 2019  Miss B acquired a used car via a five year hire purchase agreement with 
Startline. The agreement  was for a car just under four years old, with a mileage  of 80,500,  
and was arranged  via a credit broker. 
Miss B says that she rang the dealer the day after collecting the car as she had discovered 
issues with its clutch and brakes. Miss B says the dealer was unhelpful  saying the problems 
with the car were  items  of wear and tear. She says she tried to return the car but the dealer 
became abusive  so in the end she arranged for the car to be inspected at another garage 
that was approved by the manufacturer.
Miss B provided a copy of the video showing the cars inspection at the other  garage  to the 
credit broker. She said she wanted to reject the car due to its condition. The broker  didnt 
uphold Miss Bs complaint. It said the problems identified with the brakes and shock 
absorbers were advisory only and wouldnt  have  led to the car failing an MOT. It said these 
were items of wear  and tear. 
The engineer who carried out the inspection had also found a hole in one tyre which had 
exposed the cord. The broker said it wasnt known  when  this had occurred and could have  
happened when  Miss B used the car so the defect with the tyre could not be said with 
certainty to have been present at the point of sale.
Miss B was unhappy  at the brokers  response and so she complained  to Startline. Startline 
didnt uphold  her complaint.  It said it was aware  the broker  had already  investigated  the 
condition of the car and looking at the evidence it agreed with the conclusions  it had reached.
Miss B complained to this service. Our adjudicator upheld Miss Bs complaint. He said the 
retail price  of the car indicated it was in good  condition and so it would be fair to assume 
Miss B had acquired the car on that understanding.
Our adjudicator said that under the Consumer Rights  Act 2015  goods that are supplied must  
be of a satisfactory condition. And this meant the goods should be of a standard  a 
reasonable person would expect taking  into account  the description, price  paid and other  
relevant circumstances. And looking at the video  of the cars inspection while he accepted 
some of the issues were  wear and tear not all were.
The engineer had identified rusting to the nearside  rear sill which  he said he believed was 
due to a poor repair using  parts  that werent  manufacturer approved. And the engineer said 
that as rusting  took time to develop he was satisfied this wasnt  something that Miss B would 
be responsible  for.
Our adjudicator said as Miss B had brought the faults to the attention  of both the dealer and 
the broker within a week of acquiring  the car then he thought  she had the short-term  right to 
reject under the legislation. He said Miss B should  be able to reject  the car and unwind the 
agreement. He also said that Startline  should pay Miss B £200  compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused by having to look for another  car.
Ref: DRN41084982Startline didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said that it was excessive and 
unnecessary to reject the car based  on the rust issue.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out above goods that are supplied to a consumer are covered by the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 and this act provides consumers certain protections.  If goods are not of 
satisfactory quality then the consumer may have the right to reject  them.
Here Miss B raised a number of issues with the car within a very short  time of acquiring it. I 
understand that there was a breakdown  in the relationship  with the dealer which  led to Miss 
B having the car inspected  by an engineer  at a manufacturer approved garage. It isnt 
disputed that this video is a true reflection of the condition of the car.  
I appreciate that some  of the issues  with the car such as the brakes, shock absorber  and 
tyre would fall under wear and tear. That is, this wasnt  a new car and its mileage was higher 
than average so a reasonable person would expect  some components to need repairs  or 
replacement after time. 
Looking at the price  paid by Miss B for the car then I think its fair to think  a reasonable person 
would have expected it to be in good condition. Ive seen  that the position of the rust on the sill 
was such that it was unlikely Miss B would have  been aware of it prior to acquiring the car.
Ive also seen that in the opinion of the engineer  this rust was the result  of a poor repair 
using parts that werent provided by the manufacturer.  The sill on the other side of the car 
was still in good condition. 
I dont think a reasonable person knowing of this repair and the resulting rusting would  
consider this car to have been of satisfactory condition  at the point of sale. 
Miss B said to both the dealership and the broker  that she wanted  to reject the car within the 
first 30 days  of acquiring it due to its condition. And under the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015 
Miss B had a right, within the first 30 days to reject goods and receive  a full refund if they 
werent of satisfactory  quality. 
I disagree with Startline that rejecting  the car is a disproportionate outcome just because  of 
the rust on the car. I dont  think  the car was of a satisfactory condition  and as Miss B had 
raised this quickly there is no right for the retailer or the finance provider to be provided with 
an opportunity to repair the fault first. Miss B had a statutory right to reject the car as it 
wasnt of satisfactory quality and she had been clear that she wished to exercise that right.
So, for the reasons given above  Im upholding Miss Bs complaint.  Startline  are to collect the 
car and reimburse  any deposit if one was paid.  It is also to remove any reference to this 
agreement from Miss Bs credit  file. 
Ref: DRN41084983Ive seen that Miss B has found this matter distressing and trying  to sort out the car has 
caused her inconvenience and as has having to find a replacement.  I agree with our 
adjudicator that £200 compensation is fair and reasonable  in these circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Miss Bs complaint. Im asking Startline  Motor  
Finance Limited  to do the following to resolve  this complaint:
Collect the car at no cost to Miss B.
Remove any reference  to this agreement from Miss Bs credit file.
Reimburse Miss B any deposit she paid together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Miss B £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4108498