K821x#15complaint
Miss M says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in October 1998. The PPI policy 
was added after Miss M applied for the card through a postal application.
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Ms complaint. Nationwide Building  Society  disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ms complaint  because:
I dont think the information  Nationwide gave  about the exclusion for pre-existing medical 
conditions was as clear as it should have been.  I am not persuaded that these terms 
were specifically  mentioned or brought to Miss Ms attention  on the credit  card 
application form when  she completed  it and then sent it to Nationwide.
I think these shortcomings  would have mattered in this complaint because  Miss M had a 
medical condition  at the time which in all likelihood she wouldnt have been  able to claim 
benefit for. So she might not have been  able to claim on the policy in all the 
circumstances she had expected.  
Ive taken into account all of Nationwides comments  about  Miss Ms medical condition.  
But like our adjudicator,  I have been persuaded  by Miss Ms recollection of her condition 
at that time that she has provided  to our service and the impact it had on her. So when I 
consider this and also the note provided  by her doctor, I am persuaded by what Miss M 
has said. In conclusion, I think Miss M has lost out as a result  of Nationwide's failings in 
this case, because I dont think she would have  taken out the policy  if shed been 
properly informed. 
So I uphold Miss Ms complaint and Nationwide should now put things  right.
fair compensation
Nationwide should  put Miss M in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken  out 
PPI. 
A.Nationwide should find out how much Miss M would owe on her credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it.
Ref: DRN42246672So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Nationwide should  then refund the difference between what  Miss M owes  and what  she 
would have owed.
If Miss M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide  can take off what  
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when Nationwide works out what Miss M would  have owed  each month without PPI  
Miss M paid more than enough  to clear her balance, Nationwide should  also pay simple 
interest on the extra Miss M paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point 
when Miss M wouldve owed Nationwide something on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
C.Nationwide should tell Miss M what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
I require Nationwide  Building Society  to pay Miss M compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4224667