K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that it was irresponsible of Loans  2 Go Limited to lend her money in 2018.
background
In August  2018,  Loans 2 Go Limited  lend Miss W £500. 
She agreed  to repay this amount, with interest,  over 18 months. The repayments were 
£113.28 a month,  and so if Miss W made each payment on time, shed pay £2,039.04.
The loan had an interest rate of 205.2% a year  and the interest  was charged in full at the 
start of the agreement. That works out to an APR of 990.1%.
Miss W made  a payment to the account at the end of August 2018.  She missed  the payment 
in September.  Then in October  a third party debt management company  contacted  Loans 2 
Go, offering  to make reduced  repayments.  Miss W started making  payments  of £24.03  a 
month.
Miss W thinks it was irresponsible for Loans 2 Go to lend her the money.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 February 2021. In my provisional 
decision, I explained that based on what Id seen, I thought the complaint should be upheld.
Miss W agreed  with my provisional findings.  Loans  2 Go Limited said it had nothing  further to 
add. Ive therefore reviewed the case again to issue  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes  of practice; and what I consider to have been good  industry  practice at the 
relevant time.
At the time Miss W applied for this loan, the relevant regulations were set out in the 
Consumer Credit sourcebook, which can be found  online in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys handbook.
Loans 2 Go was entering a regulated credit agreement. So Loans 2 Go had to check  Miss 
Ws creditworthiness before it decided to lend.
This meant thinking  about the potential for the commitments under the loan to adversely 
impact Miss Ws financial situation, given what Loans 2 Go knew when agreed the loan. 
Loans 2 Go also had to consider Miss Ws ability to make  repayments to this loan as they fell 
due over the life of the agreement.
The extent  and scope  of any checks depended on and needed to be proportionate to the 
individual circumstances  of the lending. This could depend on factors like the type of credit,  
how much  the loan cost,  and Miss Ws circumstances at the time.
Ref: DRN47472742Checks had to go further than just seeing  whether Miss W could repay the credit. Loans 2 
Go needed to take reasonable steps to make  sure Miss W could meet the repayments in a 
sustainable manner  without incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse 
consequences.
In particular, Miss W needed to be able to make the repayments without undue difficulties. 
She should be able to make the repayments on time while  meeting her other  reasonable 
commitments  and without having to borrow to meet the repayments.  She also needed to 
be able to make the repayments over the life of the agreement, from her income  or savings, 
without having  to sell things.
With this in mind, I think the main  questions I need  to consider are:
Did Loans 2 Go complete  reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss W would be able to repay  this new loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that Miss W 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably  in any other way?
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Based  on what Id seen, Miss W applied  for the loan on 25 August 2018. She agreed 
to borrow £500 and to repay this in 18 instalments  of £113.28. So Loans 2 Go 
needed to check  Miss W could afford those repayments.
Id looked  at what Loans 2 Go did. Loans  to Go sent us details of what  Miss W said 
about her income and regular expenses when she applied for the loan. Miss W said 
she earned £1,900 a month. She said she spent £336 a month  on housing, £150  on 
groceries, £200 on utilities, £100  on transport, and £300 on her existing credit 
commitments. Added together, these expenses  are £1,086 in total.
But Loans 2 Go said it didnt rely on what Miss W had said. It said it also got two 
reports from a credit  reference agency:  one to check Miss Ws income, and a credit 
report showing Miss Ws existing loans. Loans 2 Go says it also compared Miss Ws 
expenses to figures from the Office for National  Statistics   and where  her expenses 
were less than those suggested  by official statistics  it replaced  these with the higher 
amount. So although  Miss W listed expenses of £1,086 in her application, Loans  2 
Go assumed her expenses were £1,710.53.
It said that after deducting 5% of Miss Ws income as a buffer for fluctuations in 
expenses, this left Miss W with a disposeable income of £189.47   which  it said 
meant she could afford  the monthly repayments  of £113.28.
Loans 2 Go had then sent us further  details of the checks it carried out. It says it 
didnt check whether Miss W earned £1,900  a month  it instead checked  whether 
she earned £1,824.81. It said this was the minimum Miss W needed to earn to afford 
the loan. Given  Loans 2 Go assumed Miss W spent £1,710.53, this would have left 
her with £114.28 disposable  income  or just £1 including this new commitment. 
The credit  report confirmed that Miss W was paying £336 towards her mortgage   
which is the amount  she entered in her application. But it also showed she was 
Ref: DRN47472743paying more towards  her existing credit commitments than the amounts shown on 
her application.  She paid £548 a month towards loans  with other lenders She owed 
around £17,440 towards these loans. And alongside this, she owed around £2,700 
on credit  card, store card or mail order accounts.
Looking at the credit report, I thought there  were  signs that Miss W was having  
difficulties meeting her existing commitments  on time. One of her mail order  accounts 
was then one payment  in arrears  and had been  in arrears for five of the previous 
six months  and while the rest of her accounts  were, according to the report, now up 
to date, I saw that one of her credit  cards had been in arrears in three  of the last six 
months; another had been  three payments in arrears just three months before Miss 
W applied for this loan; and Miss W had also been  two payments in arrears  with a 
telecoms supplier.
The credit  report also shows that in the 18 months  before  this loan, Miss W had 
drawn down and repaid 10 short term loans  and sometimes,  as in February 2018, 
took two short term loans in a month. These loans ranged from between £50 and 
£550. Miss W had an open  short term loan of £500  when she applied for this loan.
Taking all the above into account,  I wasnt persuaded Loans 2 Gos checks were 
sufficient. Based on what Loans 2 Go had said, it suspected that Miss Ws monthly 
expenses were  significantly greater  than shed declared in her application  and 
given what was shown  in the credit  file it knew she was paying significantly more  
towards her existing debts. The credit  report suggested that, despite borrowing more 
in recent  months,  Miss W still had difficulties paying  her regular  credit  commitments 
when due  and the frequency and number of short term loans suggested she may 
have been relying  on short term loans to meet her existing credit commitments.  
Finally, this loan had a high interest  rate and at 18 months  was for much longer term 
than the short-term loans Miss W had taken previously. It was important  that Miss W 
could afford to repay £113.23 each month for the 18 month term of the loan.
I went on to consider what would most likely have happened had Loans  2 Go carried  
out further checks. Miss W said that, because of the time thats  passed,  she no 
longer has access to her bank  statements  from the time. But shed previously, when 
she complaint about another  business,  sent us her bank statements covering the 
months up until July 2018. Miss W also sent us a more detailed  credit report, which  
shows the payments  and balances on her various accounts. I think its likely that the 
commitments shown  on this report reflect what Loans 2 Go would have  discovered  if 
it had carried out further checks  for example, if it had asks for bank statements to 
verify Miss Ws spending.
Looking at the statements for June and early July 2018, I note that Miss W was 
regularly overdrawn  and I saw returned direct  debits for phone  and utility bills, pet 
insurance and her TV license. On the day before she was paid in June she was 
£667.35 overdrawn  despite having  borrowed  £2,650  that month from other lenders. 
And despite being paid on 28 June, Miss W was overdrawn again by 2 July  and on 
3 July I saw a direct debit  was returned  for her car insurance. The credit report  
Miss W provided  also shows  she borrowed  again  in July. And so based  on what  Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that Miss W was borrowing just to repay her existing credit 
commitments and day-to-day spending  without  exceeding her overdraft limit. The 
missed direct debits, together with how much  Miss W was borrowing each month, 
Ref: DRN47472744raised real questions about  whether  she could  sustainably  afford  her new 
commitment.
So I thought  that if Loans 2 Go had carried out further checks, it would have realised 
there was a real prospect that Miss W wouldnt be able to afford this new 
commitment without  taking out further  borrowing. I therefore  didnt think  it would have 
lent.
For those reasons, based on what Id seen, I thought the complaint should be upheld. I said 
Loans 2 Go should have  lent Miss W the money.  And I said Id consider any further  
comments I received by 4 March  2021.
Miss W has contacted us to say she agreed  with my provisional findings. Loans 2 Go told us 
theyd received the provisional decision and didnt have anything further to add.
As neither Miss W nor Loans  2 Go have sent me anything further to consider, I reach the 
same conclusions for the same reasons.
putting things right
Loans 2 Go shouldnt have lent Miss W the money.  If Loans 2 Go has sold the debt, it should  
buy back if it is able to. If it is not able to, it should  arrange the equivalent of the below with 
the third party  purchaser.
Loans 2 Go should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the loan, and treat all payments  Miss W 
has made so far as repayments of the capital;
If this means Miss W has now paid more towards  this debt than she originally 
borrowed, Loans 2 Go should  refund these overpayments, plus interest   the rate is 
8% per year  from the date Miss W made each additional payment until she gets it 
back*;
If Miss W has not repaid the amount she borrowed, Loans  2 Go should  work with her 
debt management  plan for her to repay this.
Loans 2 Go should remove any adverse information about the loan from Miss Ws 
credit record.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
send Miss W a certificate showing how it has done  this if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold the complaint.  Loans 2 Go Limited should put things right by 
doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
Rebecca Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4747274