K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002 to 
cover Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage and some additional  secured borrowing. Mr and Mrs F say 
Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 2000. The mortgage was arranged 
through an intermediary. And Ive seen from their mortgage application  and evidence  
provided by Nationwide, that they chose not to take out PPI at this point. Later, in 2002, 
Mr and Mrs F met with Nationwide to take out a further advance,  and it was at this time that 
the PPI was sold to them.  
 
Mr and Mrs F say they were told they would only get the further  advance  if they took out the 
PPI. And they say that the fact they didnt need this type of cover  is evidence that they must 
have been told they had to have it. While Im sure these are Mr and Mrs Fs honest 
recollections from the time, this policy was sold around 17 years ago - which  is something I 
have to keep in mind  when  deciding what I think is more  likely to have happened. 
Nationwide says Mr and Mrs F wouldve  had a choice about the PPI and that it wasnt  a 
condition of the borrowing. And its provided  a copy of Mr and Mrs Fs further  advance  
application from 2002. In this there is a section  for PPI which reads  Do you wish to cover 
your HomeImprover loan with PaymentGuard  to which  the answer yes has been  entered. 
Ive also seen that only unemployment cover  was selected for Mr F, as well as £850  
additional cover  on top of the £1,700 of cover for the monthly  repayments.  So I think  its 
likely PPI was discussed, and Mr and Mrs F chose to take out the cover  for Mr F only.  While 
I dont know what exactly was discussed in the meeting, Ive not seen anything  in the form 
which suggests the cover was compulsory or wouldve  had an impact on the success  of their 
application. 
Ive also seen that Mr F signed a separate PPI form at the time  stating that he was eligible 
for the cover and wanted to take it out in his name only. So based on all the evidence  Ive 
seen I think its more  likely than not that Nationwide  made it clear  that Mr and Mrs F didnt 
have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out  although I can understand  why 
they cant remember this now.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs F have said about feeling  pressured into taking out the 
policy. But pressure is a subjective area and what one person may think  is pressure another  
may not. As I said above, I wasnt present in the meeting, so I cant say what  was discussed 
at the time. But without  more persuasive  evidence  from Mr and Mrs F, or something to 
support what theyve said, I cant fairly and reasonably uphold  the complaint on this point.  
Ref: DRN48033392Mr and Mrs F initially said that they were advised to take out the PPI. Nationwide  says it 
didnt recommend the PPI to them. As things stand, there isnt enough information to 
determine this point. But being  able to do so isnt crucial to the outcome because, had 
Nationwide recommended the policy, I think it wouldve been a suitable  recommendation to 
have made  for the reasons I set out below. As a result, Ive considered the complaint as an 
advised sale. 
As an advised sale Nationwide wouldve had to check  that the PPI was right for them  and 
based on what Ive seen of Mr Fs circumstances  at the time (as the insured  party), I think 
that it was. Even though Mr F was a director of his own company at the time, I havent seen 
anything in the policy documents from around  the time which  suggests it might  have been 
more difficult for someone in his position  to make a successful claim. And he wasnt  affected 
by any of the other exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover.   
Mr and Mrs F say that they didnt  need the policy as they had money in savings and had 
reserves in Mr Fs company, which they couldve used  to cover their mortgage repayments. 
But upon  a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months, and this is on top 
of any other  means  they had. So their savings  wouldve been protected,  or couldve been 
utilised for other living costs. And as Mr F was a director  of his own company, if he found  
himself in the situation where he needed  to claim on the policy its likely his company 
wouldnt have been doing so well  so its likely  he wouldve  needed these reserves  to pay 
for company expenses. And so I still think the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs F and I think 
they had a need for the cover 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs F about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But the evidence suggests  they chose to take it out in Mr Fs name only - 
so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for 
them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Mr and Mrs F made some adjustments to their policy in 2006 and 2010. So Ive considered 
their circumstances at these times but Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that the PPI 
became unsuitable for them, or that they wouldnt  have had a need  for the policy  at any point 
throughout the life of the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs F have said about the PPI, including  what  theyve 
said about wanting to cancel the policy in 2002, when they cancelled their buildings  and 
contents insurance. But I havent  seen  any persuasive evidence that they tried to cancel the 
PPI at that time.  Ive looked  at the copy of the letter that was sent to them  in 2002, and while  
it initially suggests that the PPI cover will be cancelled,  in the same letter it makes it clear 
that going forward there is a PPI policy in place.  And considering Mr and Mrs F made 
several adjustments to the policy over the years   I think they knew the policy was in place 
and didnt question  this with Nationwide. So it seems like they wanted to keep this kind of 
cover. 
This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F. 
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F because : 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs F about that. Because Nationwide  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs F, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN48033393To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs F any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back to Mr and Mrs F any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs F the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide  should  
also pay Mr and Mrs F 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest.  Mr and Mrs F can claim  back  the tax if they dont  pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs F any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 March  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4803339