K821x#15complaint
Mr D says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid)  irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three payday  loans that Quick Quid provided to Mr D from July 2009 
onwards. Mr Ds last loan was provided  in January 2010.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ds complaint and thought  that he shouldnt have been provided 
with loans two and three. Quick Quid disagreed. So the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans two and three would more 
likely than not have  shown that the repayment  required  would have taken a significant  
portion of Mr Ds income. In these circumstances, there was a significant  risk that Mr D 
wouldnt have been able to repay loans two and three without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. So dont  think that Quick Quid should  have provided these loans  to Mr D.
Ref: DRN42334812Mr D had to pay interest  and charges on loans that Quick  Quid  shouldnt have provided  him 
with. So I think that he lost out because  Quick Quid provided loans two and three. This 
means that Im upholding Mr Ds complaint about these loans and Quick Quid should put 
things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr D paid on loan two;
I understand that an outstanding balance on loan three was sold on to a third party 
debt purchaser.  Its my understanding that the balance has been settled. So Quick 
Quid will need to add up the payments it received from Mr D to the payments he 
made to the third party debt purchaser. If and when the amount of the payments  
made exceeds the amount initially lent, Quick Quid should treat these amounts as 
overpayments. Any overpayments  should be refunded to Mr D;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest,  charges and 
overpayments from the date they were  paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ds complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr D compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019. 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4233481