K821x#15complaint
Mrs K instructed Abacus Management  Limited  (Abacus) to make a number of claims for 
mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) on her behalf. Shes complained  that Abacus 
charged her a higher fee than they should  have.
background
Mrs K instructed Abacus to make  a number of claims  in July 2018. She signed terms and 
conditions which said that Abacus  would  charge  a success fee of 36% plus VAT.  A claim 
was successful and, in March 2019, Abacus sent an invoice for their success fee of 39% 
plus VAT. Mrs K paid this, but has since found out that Abacus shouldnt  have charged her 
more than 20% plus VAT because of a fee cap that was in place.
Our investigator found that Mrs K instructed  Abacus to act for her after a fee cap, introduced 
by the Claims Management Regulator (CMR), came into place. This meant that Abacus 
couldnt legally charge  a fee of more than 20% plus VAT. Because of this, she said Abacus 
should refund Mrs K the difference between  what  she paid and 20% plus VAT.
Mrs K agreed with the investigator,  but Abacus hasnt responded. Abacus also didnt co-
operate with the Claims Management  Ombudsman  (a Financial Ombudsman Service) during 
the investigation into Mrs Ks complaint. Because of this, the case has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The Financial Guidance  and Claims Act 2018 required the CMR to introduce a fee cap for 
PPI claims.  The fee cap came into force on 10 July 2018. From this date,  claims 
management companies couldnt  legally  charge  a success fee of more  than 20% plus VAT.
Ive seen that Abacus sent the claims paperwork to Mrs K on 19 July 2018  after the fee 
cap came  into place.  Their terms and conditions, which  Mrs K signed  to accept on 20 July, 
said their fees were 36% plus VAT.  I dont  consider  the fact that Mrs K agreed to pay these 
fees to be relevant as Abacus shouldnt have sent these terms to Mrs K - they werent  able 
to charge fees above 20% plus VAT at the time they were sent.
Ive also seen that Abacus invoiced Mrs K for a successful claim on 21 March 2019. Their  
fee was calculated at 39% plus VAT  higher than the 36% plus VAT Mrs K agreed to, and 
much higher  than the 20% plus VAT Abacus were legally allowed to charge. For this reason, 
I agree  with the investigator that Abacus should  refund Mrs K the difference between the 
amount she paid and the amount they were legally able to charge.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Abacus Management Limited 
must reduce their fees to 20% plus VAT. As Mrs K has already paid their fee they must  
refund her the difference  between the amount  she paid and their reduced  fee, along  with 
simple interest calculated at 8% a year from the date they received her payment to the date 
of the refund.
Ref: DRN47109622Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4710962