K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint is that Santander UK Plc did not do enough to help him when he was the 
victim of a scam.
background
On 25 June 2018, Mr M approached a seller on a social media  website in order  to purchase 
a mobile phone. He transferred £265  via mobile  banking and paid extra  for next day delivery.  
Mr M didnt  receive the mobile phone the following day and contacted the seller  to query this, 
but the seller had blocked all contact from him. It was at this point that Mr M realised he had 
been scammed. 
He contacted Santander on 26 June  and they immediately got in touch with the beneficiary  
bank to request  a return of the £265.  Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank responded and said 
no funds remained at that time. 
Mr M and his representative, Ms M, were unhappy with the level of service  they received 
when making the complaint. They were given  conflicting information  about whether the 
complaint was open or not and how they needed  to pursue the scam with other authorities. 
Santander offered  Mr M £60 in recognition of this, which  he accepted. 
Our adjudicator investigated and felt it was reasonable for Santander to have processed  the 
payment of £265  and that they acted quickly to try and recover the funds. So, he didnt 
recommend that Santander provide a refund to Mr M. But he did agree  the customer  service 
could have been better and felt the £60 already offered and paid was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mr M didnt  agree with the outcome. He felt that the transfer shouldnt have been dealt with 
as an authorised payment because he was not aware he was sending  it to a scammer.  And 
he didnt agree that the payment wasnt out of the ordinary because  hes only ever made two 
large payments before,  so he thinks the £265 should  have  flagged  as fraud on Santanders 
internal systems.
Because an informal agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been  passed to me 
for a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Ref: DRN41264022But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Santander  are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  
with Mr M when  he made the payment of £265  to a new payee, or whether it should have 
done more than it did. Having carefully  considered  everything available  to me, I think  it did 
act fairly and reasonably when it processed the payment and Ill explain why in more detail. 
But firstly, Id like to acknowledge that Mr M has been the victim of a scam  and Im sorry that 
hes had to go through this experience. I hope Im able to provide an explanation of what  
responsibility Santander had in the situation.  
The first thing I considered is whether the payment itself was authorised by Mr M. Santander 
have confirmed that Mr M made the payment himself through  his mobile  banking  and would 
have entered  a one-time passcode only he would have access to, so he did authorise it 
himself. But Mr M has said because he didnt  know he was paying the money  to a scammer, 
he therefore didnt  authorise the payment. I can understand Mr Ms point  of view, that he 
authorised the payment to go to a legitimate seller and not to a scammer. But in banking, 
whether a payment is authorised has a more set definition. Regardless of who Mr M thought  
Ref: DRN41264023he was paying,  he did give his authority to Santander to send a payment to a specific  
account. Because of this, we would  consider  this to be an authorised  payment. 
Because Mr M gave  his authority  for the payment to be sent, Santander had an obligation to 
process it. But there are some situations in which  they should  reasonable have had a closer 
look at the circumstances surrounding  the payment. For example, if it was particularly  out of 
character for Mr M when compared  to his regular account activity. 
Ive looked at Mr Ms statements for the months leading  up to the payment and I cant agree 
that the £265 was so unusual that Santander  should  have flagged it as potentially  fraudulent.  
I say this because  there  were several other faster payments for similar and higher amounts. 
While I do recognise some  of these were to a family member, they were still faster payments 
to another account, and they reflect Mr Ms typical account activity.  On balance,  I think its 
reasonable that Santanders systems didnt flag the payment as potentially  fraudulent  in the 
circumstances.  
I understand Ms M is concerned that there werent  more restrictions on Mr Ms account due 
to the fact it was a young persons account. We would expect a bank to take additional care 
when dealing with more vulnerable people, such as those who are more financially 
inexperienced. And Ive taken this into account when Ive considered the payment and 
whether it was reasonable for Santander  to have processed it. In this particular  case, I dont 
think Santander needed to take any additional  steps to verify this payment with Mr M. 
Mr M has said he didnt request for the payment to be sent as a faster payment and wouldnt 
have requested this if he knew he had the option.  Hes said this is because  he paid an 
additional cost for next day delivery,  it seems  to me this is so he could receive the phone 
before the payment was received by the seller. Ive thought about this and ultimately, Mr M 
instructed his bank,  Santander, to make a payment to a third party. And I dont  think  it was 
unreasonable for Santander to send  that payment as soon as possible. Even if Mr M had 
been told the payment would be made immediately, I dont  think it would have impacted his 
decision to make the payment. I say this because  at that time, Mr M wasnt aware that he 
was dealing with a scammer.  He only became aware of this when he could  no longer contact 
them, and I think its likely  the scammer would only have done  this once the payment was 
received.
Mr M raised  a scam complaint with Santander on 26 June, the day after the payment was 
processed, at around 11am. Santander  contacted the beneficiary bank around an hour later 
to request a return of the funds. During that phone call, Santander  were  told that no funds 
remained, and they notified Mr M of this. After  a more thorough investigation, the beneficiary 
bank found that £3 remained of Mr Ms funds and returned this to Santander on 18 July. 
While its unfortunate that Mr M was given conflicting information about the funds remaining, 
this was due to the incorrect  information  given to Santander by the beneficiary bank. The 
beneficiary bank  has evidenced that £262  of Mr Ms funds was withdrawn by the scammer  
within an hour of the payment being processed  on 25 June, before Mr M contacted  
Santander. So, I think Santander acted quickly to try and recover the funds, but only £3 
remained. It should be noted  that any action taken on the scammers account is down to the 
beneficiary bank  and all Santander is able to do is notify them of the scam. 
Ms M has said that the beneficiary  name Mr M entered when making the payment wasnt 
checked against the actual name  on the account  and that they wouldnt have matched. 
Shes said this because Mr M was given  the name John Doe, which  is often used as a 
pseudonym for an unknown person.  At the time the payment was made, a bank was only 
Ref: DRN41264024required to use the sort code and account number to identify the account the payment was 
going to. Although they also requested the name, this was for the consumers reference only 
and wasnt used in the transfer process. But I think it would be reasonable to expect 
Santander to make this clear to Mr M. 
Ive looked at the general account terms and conditions  for Santander  and I can see it set 
out they would ask for the payees account number, sort code and name. But it didnt then 
say that they would only use the account number  and sort code when identifying the 
beneficiary account. So, Ive thought about  how this would have affected Mr Ms decision to 
make the £265  payment had he known  this. But because Mr M seemed  to have no 
suspicions at the time of making the transfer that he was dealing  with a scammer, and he 
thought he was making a genuine  payment for a mobile phone,  I dont think knowing the 
name wouldnt be cross references  would have changed his mind about making the 
payment. So, I dont think this means Santander needs to refund  Mr M with the £265.
I do agree  that Santander didnt communicate  well with either  Mr M or Ms M and that they 
gave conflicting  information about  the status of the complaint. This must have been 
frustrating for Mr M during what was already a difficult  time.  I think the £60 already paid to 
him in recognition of this is appropriate  in the circumstances and I dont  think it needs to 
award anything  further.  
Mr M has unfortunately been the victim  of a common type of scam which many other people 
have also been  victims of. Having considered  Santanders actions, I think it was reasonable 
for them to have followed Mr Ms instruction and processed the payment without further 
checks. And I think that once it was aware  of the scam, it acted quickly to try and recover   
Mr Ms funds.  So, I dont  think it should  refund Mr M with the £265. I cant  hold Santander 
responsible for the incorrect information  they were given about  the funds remaining, but I do 
agree they could have communicated better overall  during the complaint process. And I think  
the £60 already awarded is fair in the circumstances.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 September  2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4126402