K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that his standing order  wasnt  paid from his account with TSB Bank plc. 
Hes also unhappy that overdraft charges were taken from his account a day earlier  than 
usual.
background
Mr M holds  an account with TSB from which he has a standing order  for £3000 leaving his 
account on 25th of each month.  The funds are sent to a joint account  and used  to pay his 
mortgage and other  bills.
Mr Ms wages  were  paid into his account  on 25 October 2018.  Due to a system upgrade, 
TSB processed the outgoing standing order before it processed the incoming wages credit.  
This resulted in the standing order not being  paid because  there  were  insufficient funds in 
the account.
When Mr M logged  into his account  on 25 October 2018, he saw the standing  order hadnt 
been paid. He cancelled the standing order and transferred funds  from his account to the 
joint account by another  method.
Because Mr M had transferred funds  himself, and because the cancellation of the standing 
order wasnt effective because it hadnt  been made the day before the standing order was 
due to be paid,  the second  and third attempts by TSB to pay the standing order failed due to 
insufficient funds  in the account. This resulted  in a returned item fee of £10 being charged.  
Mr M is unhappy  that the standing order wasnt paid. He says this caused him inconvenience 
and he was worried that payments due to be made from his joint account  wouldnt be paid.
Mr M is also unhappy that his account fees were  collected on 1 October 2018 rather than 2 
October 2018 as he was expecting.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that although TSB had initially  made 
an error by attempting the standing order before  Mr Ms wages were credited, she felt that 
TSB had taken reasonable steps  to put things  right.
Mr M didnt  agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Standing order
I can see from the information provided by TSB that it attempted to pay the standing order  
just after midnight on 25 October  2018. Mr Ms wages werent credited to the account until 
00.44. 
TSB has explained that a system  issue affected  the standing  order, resulting in it being 
processed before the incoming credit. TSB has acknowledged the error and has waived the 
fee incurred on the account as a result.
Ref: DRN47061292Ive looked at the terms and conditions relating to standing orders.  These say that three 
attempts at payment  will be made.  They also say that if a customer  wants to cancel a 
standing order, this must be done the day before a standing order  is due to be paid.
Mr M has explained that when he logged into his online banking  on 25 October  2018  and 
saw the standing order hadnt  been  paid, he tried to cancel  the standing  order and 
transferred funds to his joint account  by another means. In the meantime, TSB made two 
further attempts  to pay the standing  order.
Its unfortunate that TSB attempted  to pay the standing order before Mr Ms wages were  
credited. The bank has explained that the error was due to a system  issue.  I appreciate that 
Mr M isnt happy with this explanation but I dont think its reasonable to require TSB to go 
into further detail.  Im satisfied that TSB has waived the returned item fee so Mr M hasnt 
suffered any financial  detriment as a result of the error.
I appreciate that Mr M was caused  inconvenience  and that he has spent some  time trying to 
resolve the issue with the bank. I understand that Mr M would have been worried  that 
payments from his joint account wouldnt  be paid if they were  also set up to be paid out on 
25th of the month. As far as Im aware the system  issue  has now been  resolved by the bank 
but to reduce the risk of this happening again Mr M may wish to consider setting up his 
standing order to leave  his account the day after his wages are credited, if this fits in with his 
other financial commitments.  
Account fees
Ive looked at Mr Ms statement dated September  2018. This details the monthly account 
charges and says these  are due to debit  on 1 October 2018.  Because  of this, Im unable  to 
say that TSB made an error in debiting the charges  on 1 October 2018.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, Im satisfied  that TSB has 
acted reasonably in putting things right for Mr M by waiving the returned item fee. I 
understand that Mr M was worried about  payments not being made from his joint account 
but I havent seen any evidence to suggest  that any payments were missed as a result of the 
error. 
For the reasons  Ive explained Im unable  to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4706129