K822xcomplaint
Mrs A has complained to Creation Consumer Finance  Ltd (Creation) about  its response to 
a claim she made under  section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974  (s.75).
background 
In April 2016 Mrs A purchased a storage battery  for her existing solar panel system.  The 
battery cost £3,000  and Mrs A paid for it using a fixed sum loan agreement  with Creation.
Around a year later a complaint was made  to the supplier, a company called Green Energy, 
and to Creation.   Mrs As husband, Mr A, had received an electric  shock  from the battery  and 
said he didnt know how long it had been faulty,  but had concerns for the safety of their 
grandchildren.
Green Energy confirmed the battery was faulty and required repair, and agreed  to return it 
within three weeks.  Mr  and Mrs A say it took two months for the battery to be repaired and 
ready to be reinstalled,  but ultimately  they declined the reinstallation and theyd lost faith in 
the battery  and were  still concerned about  safety.  
Creation is considering Mrs As claim as under s.75 as its responsible for 
misrepresentations and breaches of contract to the same  extent  as the supplier  in certain  
circumstances.  It  responded stating  that Green Energy had repaired the battery  and the 
only reason it hadnt been  reinstalled  is because Mrs A no longer wanted it.
Unhappy with Creations  response, Mrs A referred  a complaint to this Service.   One of our 
investigators reviewed everything  and recommended  that the complaint be upheld.
In summary,  the investigator concluded  the battery  wasnt of satisfactory  quality and Mrs A 
should be entitled to reject  it.  To  put things right he suggested the loan agreement be 
cancelled and any payments made by Mrs A refunded,  along  with the reinstatement  of the 
solar panel  system to its original condition.
Creation didnt agree with the assessment  and highlighted that Green Energy  had repaired 
the battery  and tried to arrange  reinstallation of the battery as it was required to  but 
Mr and Mrs A didnt  respond to numerous contacts attempts.
As no agreement could be reached  Ive been  asked to review everything afresh and make a 
decision on the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator  and Ill explain why.
When considering  if Creation acted fairly  when  dealing  with Mrs As claim, I must take 
relevant law into account.  As Ive set out above, under s.75 Creation is jointly  and severally 
liable for a breach of contract  or misrepresentation with the supplier, Green Energy, under 
certain circumstances.   One  of the conditions is that theres a direct relationship between the 
debtor (Mrs A), the creditor (Creation)  and the supplier (Green Energy).
Ref: DRN44754782Im satisfied in this instance  that the debtor-creditor-supplier  chain  hasnt been  broken, and 
Creation has not disputed  this.  So the key issue is whether  there has been a breach of 
contract, and whether Creation has acted fairly and reasonably in dealing  with the s.75 
claim.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA) is relevant and was implied into the contract when 
Mrs A purchased the battery.  The CRA  sets out that goods supplied will be of satisfactory 
quality, and meet the standard a reasonable person would consider, taking account of any 
description, the price  and other relevant circumstances.
Im aware Creation has explained it considers the fault with the battery  didnt emerge until a 
year after installation.  Its also highlighted  that Green Energy completed the repair in a 
reasonable timescale and without significant inconvenience to Mrs A.  But Mrs A didnt  
respond to Green Energys contact attempts to arrange reinstallation   and ultimately 
declined the battery  being  fitted.  Creation said this was unjustified  and its clear  that Mrs A 
wanted a refund rather than a fix for the fault.  So Ive considered this.
Mrs A purchased the battery as an addition to her existing system, and it was supplied  new 
and installed  by Green Energy.  Given the type of product, its reasonable to expect the 
battery would  work to a satisfactory standard for a number of years.  Having become faulty 
within 12 months, I dont consider the battery sold to Mrs A was of satisfactory  quality.
I understand that given the battery had been installed and likely working for the best part of a 
year, it is appropriate for Green Energy to have been given the opportunity to repair and 
reinstall it.  But being mindful of the nature of the fault, and that it gave Mr A an electric 
shock, I can understand why Mrs A says shes  lost faith in the battery and still has safety  
concerns.
Creation says that such batteries are usually installed in lofts or fitted in a part of the home 
that isnt accessed by family members.  So its unlikely Mrs A or her grandchildren would be 
at risk.  Ive considered  this point, and what I think to be fair overall.  People access  different 
areas of their home  and shouldnt be restricted from doing so because of the risk of an 
electric shock  from faulty equipment.  Whilst I appreciate the battery had been repaired,  I 
also understand why Mrs A had strong  reservations  about its safety.
Having taken everything into account, I consider it reasonable for Mrs A to refuse 
reinstallation of the battery and so I uphold her complaint.
putting things right
As Ive concluded Mrs A is reasonably  entitled to reject the battery, I think  its fair that she 
receives a full refund and is put back in the position she was in before purchasing it.  I've 
considered whether any allowance  should be made for the benefit Mrs A had from the 
battery whilst  installed   but as I cant be certain how long it was working properly  for Ive 
made no deduction.
So fair compensation would be for Creation to:
End the fixed loan agreement.
Refund all payments made by Mrs A towards the loan, along with 8% simple interest 
per annum from the date each payment was made, to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN44754783Arrange and pay for the solar  panel system to be returned to its original condition  
as it was before the battery upgrade  was installed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs As complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
and direct it to pay the fair compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4475478