K821x#15complaint
Miss R has complained about a personal loan provided by Loans  2 Go Limited (L2G) in 
December 2017.  Shes  said shes concerned L2G is saying that she owes £3,670.20 when 
she only borrowed £900. Shes also suggested  that L2G hasnt treated her positively and 
sympathetically since shes  explained that shes having difficulty repaying her loan.
background
I attach my provisional decision of 28 January 2019, which forms part of this final decision.  
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I was intending to uphold Miss Rs complaint and 
invited both parties to make any final comments ahead of my final decision. Following this, 
L2G confirmed  it had nothing to add and it would await my final decision. Miss R confirmed 
she accepted  my provisional decision.  But that L2G had sold her debt onto a third party.  
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail  why I intended to uphold Miss Rs complaint  in my provisional 
decision. And, in the absence of anything further, I see no reason to change  my conclusions.
putting things right  what L2G needs to do
I think it would be fair and reasonable, in all the circumstances of this case, for L2G to:
buy back Miss Rs account from the third party debt purchaser and
reduce the starting balance on Miss Rs loan to £1,800.00; and
reduce the starting balance on Miss Rs account by the amount of any payments Miss R 
made either to it or the third party debt purchaser; and
arrange an affordable  payment plan with Miss R so that she can repay the outstanding  
balance. Id like to remind L2G of its obligation to treat Miss R positively and 
sympathetically when  it is arranging this affordable payment plan with her.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 28 January 2019,  Im upholding 
Miss Rs complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited  should put things  right in the way set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN44411812COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss R has complained about a personal loan provided by Loans  2 Go Limited (L2G) in 
December 2017.  Shes  said shes concerned L2G is saying that she owes £3,670.20 when 
she only borrowed £900. Shes also suggested  that L2G hasnt treated her positively and 
sympathetically since shes  explained that shes having difficulty repaying her loan.
background
Miss R successfully applied for a loan of £900.00  with L2G in December 2017. The loan had 
an 18 month term and the monthly payments were £203.90. The information provided by 
L2G suggests that this was a top-up  and refinance  of an existing  loan as Miss R only 
received £370.05  in cash after signing her loan agreement.
As I understand it, Miss R hasnt been able to make  any of the payments due on this loan. 
Shes said that this is because shes  experiencing financial difficulties due to changes  in her 
employment. L2G has taken income and expenditure information from Miss R since  being 
notified of her financial difficulties. But its unclear whether L2G has reached an arrangement  
with Miss R for her to be able to repay this loan.
One of our investigators  initially looked  at Miss Rs complaint. His conclusion was the 
amount of interest  Miss R had to pay for her loan was clearly  disclosed to her. He also 
thought that he hadnt  seen anything to suggest that L2G had treated Miss R unfairly in 
relation to her payment  difficulties  either.  So he didnt uphold  the compliant.
Miss Rs complaint was then reviewed by one of our adjudicators. She thought that L2G had 
provided High-Cost Short-Term credit  to Miss R. And the amount of interest  it added  to 
Miss Rs loan meant that it exceeded the total cost cap set out in the Financial Conduct  
Authoritys (FCA)  Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
So our adjudicator upheld Miss Rs complaint  and said that L2G should remove  all the 
interest from the outstanding balance on Miss Rs loan. L2G disagreed with our adjudicator 
and asked for the complaint to be passed to an investigator or an ombudsman. As the 
parties have been  unable  to agree on a resolution the case has been passed to me for 
review.
my provisional findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to provisionally decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.  Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules  
and good industry  practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having carefully thought  about issues, I think that there are two key questions that I need to 
consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
They are:
Was the loan L2G provided Miss R with High-Cost Short-Term credit  and so the amount 
charged was in breach of the FCA cost cap?
Ref: DRN44411813Did L2G act unfairly  or unreasonably  towards  Miss R in some other way?
Ive carefully considered  these questions.
Was the loan L2G provided Miss R with High-Cost  Short-Term credit (HCSTC)?
I think that it might be helpful  for me to start by setting out the definition of HCSTC.
HCSTC is defined in the FCA Handbook  of rules and guidance (the handbook). It is defined 
as:
a regulated credit agreement:
(a)which is a borrower-lender  agreement or a P2P agreement ;
(b)in relation to which the APR is equal  to or exceeds 100%;
(c)either:
(i) in relation to which a financial  promotion indicates (by express words  or 
otherwise) that the credit  is to be provided for any period up to a maximum of 
12 months or otherwise indicates (by express words  or otherwise) that the 
credit is to be provided for a short term; or
(ii) under which the credit is due to be repaid, or substantially repaid, within a 
maximum of 12 months of the date on which the credit  is advanced;
(d)which is not secured  by a mortgage,  charge or pledge; and
(e)which is not:
(i) a credit agreement in relation to which the lender is a community finance 
organisation; or
(ii) a home credit  loan agreement , a bill of sale loan agreement or a borrower-
lender agreement enabling  a borrower  to overdraw on a current account or 
arising where the holder  of a current account overdraws on the account 
without a pre-arranged overdraft or exceeds  a pre-arranged overdraft  limit
Having looked  at Miss Rs agreement, Im satisfied  that it is a regulated  borrower-lender 
agreement; with an APR exceeding  100%;  which isnt secured by a mortgage,  charge or 
pledge. And Miss Rs loan isnt a home-credit loan, a bill of sale agreement or an overdraft. 
Finally L2G isnt a community  finance  organisation either.
So I think that Miss Rs agreement clearly met sections a, b, d and e of the definition of 
HCSTC. This means that Miss Rs loan is HCSTC if section c of the definition  is also met.
Section c(ii)
L2G argues that Miss Rs loan doesnt  meet section c of the definition of HCSTC because it 
had a term of 18 months. It says 18 months  is clearly longer than the maximum period of 12 
months, which is the period referred to in Section c(ii).
Ref: DRN44411814Ive carefully thought  about what L2G has said.
Its interesting to note that L2G chose to focus its response on the fact that Section  c(ii) 
refers to a maximum period of 12 months.  And, despite our adjudicator subsequently 
drawing its attention to it, L2G appears to be ignoring the fact that Section c(ii) of the HCSTC 
definition says a loan will be caught  by the provision if the credit  is due to be repaid or 
substantially repaid within a maximum period of 12 months.
In my view, the inclusion  of or substantially repaid, within Section c(ii), leaves open the 
possibility that credit taken over a term of longer than a maximum of 12 months might fall 
within the provision.  So I dont think the fact that Miss Rs loan has a term of 18 months  
automatically means it doesnt fall within the scope  of Section c(ii). And Ive given careful  
thought to whether Miss Rs credit  was due to be substantially repaid within  a maximum of 
12 months.
Was Miss R provided with credit that was due to be substantially repaid within a maximum 
period of 12 months?
Credit is defined in the handbook. And it is defined as:
(3) (in relation to a credit-related regulated activity, operating an electronic system in 
relation to lending or an MCD credit  agreement) includes a cash  loan and any other form of 
financial accommodation, but an item entering  into the total charge  for credit is not treated as 
credit even though  time is allowed for its payment.
As Miss R was provided with a cash loan, Im satisfied that her loan is covered by the 
definition of credit. While credit is defined  in the handbook,  substantially  repaid isnt. So, in 
these circumstances,  I need to apply a natural meaning to substantially  repaid (as per GEN  
2.2.9G) in order to decide whether I think Miss Rs loan is caught by Section c(ii) of the 
definition of HCSTC.
Substantially is defined as to a great or significant extent in the Oxford  dictionary.  Im also 
mindful that GEN  2.2.1R says that Every  provision  in the Handbook must be interpreted  in 
light of its purpose . Indeed CONC 5A.1.,  where  the rules for the cost cap on HCSTC are 
found, reminds firms to interpret the provisions of the chapter in the light of their purpose.
With this in mind, in reaching  my decision on what I think the definition of substantially repaid 
is, I think its important to take into account the comments FCA made in Policy Statement 
14/3 (PS 14/3), which  set out the FCAs detailed rules for its regime  for consumer  credit.
PS 14/3 was published  in February 2014 and it responded  to the questions the FCA invited, 
on its proposed regime  for consumer  credit,  in Consultation Paper 13/10  (Detailed  proposals  
for the FCA regime for consumer credit) (CP13/10)  and Quarterly Consultation Paper No.3 
13/18.
The FCAs rationale behind its definition of HCSTC and its response to questions  arising out 
of CP 13/10 and QCP3 13/18 starts on page  44. Section 5.3 says the definition  of HCSTC 
tried to capture  the business models  currently in the market and future-proof  it against 
potential gaming  from firms.
Ref: DRN44411815Section 5.4 also confirms  that, in the consultation,  the FCA asked Do you agree with the 
definition of a high-cost  short-term credit provider as set out at the start of this chapter?.  In 
section 5.6 the FCA highlighted  specific responses that it received in relation to the proposed 
term included in the definition of HCSTC. Section 5.6 said several  firms argued that anything 
more than six months was not short-term, others that the definition would capture loans up to 
24 months because of the way it is drafted.
The FCA response to these points was set out in section  5.9. It said:
Our definition stems  from our analysis of the market, with conduct rules that are specifically 
designed to respond to concerns about firms business models. Despite some respondents 
being concerned that our definition was too broadly defined, we believe it is appropriate  to 
future-proof and address potential gaming.
So, in my view, the FCA clearly declined the opportunity to confirm  the number of months  a 
loan had to run for before it would be clear that there  was no intention that the credit would 
be substantially repaid within a maximum period of 12 months. And it declined  to confirm 
that there  was no intention for loans with terms of up to 24 months to be included  in its 
definition of HCSTC  even though it was provided  with the opportunity to do so and it could 
be argued that it was invited to. If anything, the FCA arguably instead confirmed that a broad 
definition of HCSTC should be taken and was appropriate  to ensure that firms  didnt try and 
get around the rules.
Ive considered whether Miss Rs loan was due to be substantially repaid within a maximum 
of 12 months (and so falls within Section c(ii) of the definition of HCSTC bearing in mind Ive 
already set out why I think it met all of the other criteria in the provision) in this context.
Miss Rs loan was due to be repaid in 18 monthly  instalments of £203.90. So I dont think  it 
was unfair  or unreasonable for our adjudicator to have concluded Miss Rs loan was due to 
be substantially repaid within 12 months as two thirds of the total amount payable was due 
to be repaid within this period. This is especially the case when it is considered that there  is 
an argument to say  if she made her repayments  on time  Miss R would  have fully repaid 
the credit  she was advanced  five months into to agreement.
But my suspicion here is that L2G adding all of the interest from the outset and its method of 
amortising this loan (i.e. the way it allocates  different  proportions of each  repayment  towards  
the interest and capital) means  that Miss R payments  wouldve been  mostly made up of 
interest in the initial stages. And my suspicion  is that the amount of the monthly payment 
going towards the £900.00 she initially borrowed in the first 12 months of the loan term wont 
have been enough to clear anywhere near half of it. But this is my suspicion and L2G hasnt 
made this argument  or broken down these payments  in this way for me.
Its also my understanding that Miss R could only have had a loan with an APR of well in 
excess of 100% and a term of 18 months from L2G.  L2G hasnt provided an explanation as 
to how and why Miss R could only have had a loan on such disadvantageous  terms  
although my own suspicion is that a loan over a shorter period of time wouldve seen far 
more of the amount initially borrowed repaid within  the first 12 months and wouldve 
definitely confirmed  this credit as being  HCSTC.
Im also mindful that the FCA brought in CONC 5A because it was given a statutory duty1 to 
protect borrowers from excessive charges. Id find it somewhat strange for it to be the case  
Ref: DRN44411816that Parliament  felt the need to legislate to protect  consumers  from excessive  charges  on 
credit taken over a short-term, while also believing that such charges were reasonable for 
credit taken over a longer period.
This is especially the case when it is considered that the potential  harm to a consumer - as a 
result of having to pay such  excessive  charges  over a longer period  is arguably greater. 
Although for reasons  Ill explain in the next section  of this decision,  its possible the FCA 
thought existing legislation provided similar protection for such  borrowers.
In any event, in my view,  what has happened  here,  at the very least,  appears  to have the 
hallmarks of the potential  gaming of the HCSTC definition that the FCA sought to guard 
against and put firms on notice of when  it published PS 14/3. But this isnt a matter for me to 
decide here, as Im required to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this 
case  not whether L2G breached the terms of its authorisation by providing  HCSTC, which  
is a matter for the regulator to decide.
And I dont  think deciding whether or not this credit  was HCSTC is crucial to me deciding  
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular case. I say this because 
irrespective of whether  the credit provided  was HCSTC, in my view,  L2G acted unfairly and 
unreasonably towards  Miss R in some other way. Ill explain why in the following section of 
this provisional decision.
why I think that L2G acted  unfairly and unreasonably towards Miss R in some other way
Having looked  at Miss Rs credit  agreement,  I can see it sets out the interest rate on the loan 
is at a simple fixed rate of 205.2% per annum. The credit agreement  also sets out that this 
translates to an Annual Percentage Rate (APR) of 1,008.5%. I dont think that both of these  
figures can be accurate  as I cant see how a simple fixed rate of 205.2% translates into a 
APR of 1,008.5%.
The credit agreement also clearly  explains that the total charge for the credit  is £2.770.20. 
And the agreement also sets out that Miss R was due to make eighteen payments of 
£203.90. So given Miss R was only receiving £900 and she had to pay back  £3,670.20 (over 
18 months) I think that the cost of this loan is on any basis exceptionally  high.
I accept that the total cost of the loan was clearly  set out to Miss R before she agreed to it. 
But whilst the clarity of Miss Rs agreement  and the monthly repayment, on the face of 
things, being affordable  (Miss R hasnt said it wasnt at the outset and says her inability to 
make payments has been as a result  of her change in employment after the loan was 
provided), might normally  be enough  for me to conclude  that L2G didnt do anything  wrong, 
I still think that it acted unfairly and unreasonably towards Miss R given the particular 
circumstances of this case  irrespective of whether this loan is HCSTC.
To explain, Miss R was clearly refinancing and taking further funds from L2G. And Im 
mindful that a copy of a bank statement that L2G appears to have taken at the time it 
provided this loan to Miss R show that shed had returned direct debits.
So I think that L2G ought to have picked up that Miss R may have been looking to borrow  
further funds because she was struggling to manage  her finances. And, in these 
circumstances, I think  that it would have been fair, reasonable  and proportionate for L2G to 
1 s131 Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013
Ref: DRN44411817have recognised this and also factor it in to any product offered, when lending  to her. In my 
view, L2G didnt do that and instead  unfairly took advantage of the situation by providing 
such an expensive product.
As Ive explained earlier  in this decision, the circumstances behind this loan application 
arent clear (and Id welcome any clarity the parties might be able to provide on this in any 
responses to this provisional decision)  all I know is that Miss R only received £370.05. And 
this suggests  that the rest of the £900  went towards refinancing  or repaying a previous loan 
from L2G.
I dont think that it was unfair per se for L2G to refinance Miss Rs loan, given her apparent 
need to re-borrow  - after all this mightve allowed  her to repay what she already owed more  
gradually and leave her finances with more breathing space. That said even though  it wasnt 
unfair per se for L2G to refinance any existing loan,  this doesnt mean that it was fair or 
reasonable for L2G to provide this particular 18-month loan, on the terms it did.
If L2G is correct and Miss R wont have  paid a significant portion of the £900.00 initially  
borrowed by the end of 12 months,  then Miss R will have repaid close  to £2,500.00 and paid 
less than £450.00 towards  what  she borrowed. So she will have paid around £2,000.00 to 
reduce the amount she initially borrowed by less than half.
I accept that this loan was provided  after the extortionate credit  bargaining provisions in the 
Consumer Credit Act 19742 were replaced by the Unfair Relationship  provisions (contained 
in section 140). But this loan had an interest rate so outrageous3 (i.e. one which  works  out at 
well in excess of 100% per annum)  that I think a court may well have found it grossly  
exorbitant and that the agreement grossly contravened ordinary  principles of fair dealing.
This is especially the case when bearing  in mind the following:
the loan agreement had a quoted simple interest rate of 252% and APR of in excess  of 
1,000%;
the prevailing interest rates  in December 2017;
Miss Rs weak  bargaining  position,  considering her need to refinance,  in comparison to 
L2G and it only providing an 18 month option;
L2G argument isnt that this loan isnt high-cost  but that it isnt short-term.
And as the Unfair  Relationship provisions were  brought in to increase consumer protection4, 
I also think its entirely possible that a court may well find that an unfair  relationship existed 
between L2G and Miss R at the time of this loan  bearing in mind all of the factors  in play in 
this case - although I cant say this for certain.
But, in any event, even  if this isnt the case,  Im required to decide what I think  is fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances of this case. And I find that Miss R was given a loan 
which had an interest rate which, on the face of things, wasnt commensurate  to the risk L2G 
was taking in providing the funds.
2 s137-140 Consumer  Credit Act 1974
3 Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice, 5.267
4 Fair, Clear and Competitive, The consumer  credit  market in the 21st century  Department for Trade 
and Industry  White Paper (2003), p 52-53 
Ref: DRN44411818As the payments on this loan were  for around  £200 a month, L2G wouldve recovered the 
full value of the capital  it was advancing  to Miss R by month five (and this isnt taking into 
account any interest and charges it wouldve already received as a result  of Miss Rs 
previous loan or loans). So this means  that all of the payments  from month  six were  being 
made after there was no risk to L2G of it not getting what  it originally  lent back.
I think that this agreement (which required at least twelve out of the eighteen  payments to be 
made once  L2G would already have  had its money back  (in my view,  a substantial 
proportion) would,  to any ordinary observer, be seen  as unfair  given this loan was provided 
in circumstances  where L2G ought to have  been  alert to the possibility Miss R was 
struggling to manage  her money.
But instead  of offering  assistance and perhaps  providing a product where Miss R would 
repay £200 (which  still represented a significant proportion of her monthly income  of around 
£1000) over a more  reasonable  period, which I think wouldve been  the fair, reasonable and 
proportionate thing to do in the circumstances, L2G provided her with a product which 
required her to repay four times the amount she was borrowing over an 18-month period.
In my view, this had the effect  of unfairly  excessively  increasing and prolonging Miss Rs 
overall indebtedness. I also think that L2G failed to take into account the risk of this loan 
being unsustainable bearing in mind the total charge of the credit  relative  to Miss Rs 
financial situation as it was. This is especially  as it was using an interest rate that was only 
really meant to be used  on products repaid over a short term period and bearing in mind  the 
extent of Miss Rs apparent financial position.
So taking all of this into account, I think that it was unfair for L2G to have provided this loan 
to Miss R, in these particular circumstances,  irrespective of whether  it is HCSTC.
Miss Rs concerns about L2G failing to treat her positively and sympathetically
Ive also carefully thought  about what Miss Rs said about L2G failing to treat her positively 
and sympathetically  since  shes run into payment difficulties on her loan. But having  looked 
at the file of papers, it does look like L2G has gathered income and expenditure information 
from Miss R with a view to establishing how much  she can realistically  afford to repay  at this 
moment in time. Its unclear whether an affordable  payment  plan has been set up.
But, in any event, it seems clear that L2G has recognised that Miss R is having difficulty 
making her payments. And it has, at the very least,  taken reasonable steps towards setting 
up an affordable payment  plan with her. So I dont think  that L2G has failed to treat Miss R 
positively and sympathetically, or that it has acted unfairly and/or unreasonably towards to 
her in respect of this matter. And as this is the case,  Im not intending to uphold  this part of 
the complaint.
what I think L2G should  do to put things right in the circumstances of Miss Rs case
Ive given careful thought to what amounts to fair compensation in this case. Where I find 
that a business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business to  as far as 
reasonably possible   place the consumer in the position they would be in now if the wrong  
hadnt taken place. So Im effectively looking for L2G to put Miss R in the position  shed  now 
be in if she hadnt  been given this loan on such egregious and unfair  terms.
Ref: DRN44411819Miss R was given her loan and she used the funds   albeit  I accept that some of it went 
towards repaying her previous loan.  So its not possible to put Miss R back  in the position 
she would  be in she hadnt been  given  her loan in the first place. And I have to look at what  
else I can do to put things right in the fairest way I can.
In cases where we think a loan shouldnt have been  given we usually  tell a business  to 
refund all of the interest and charges the consumer paid on that loan. So Ive started  by 
thinking about whether a full refund of the interest and charges Miss R had to pay would be 
fair here.  
But having  carefully thought about  everything, I dont think  that would be the fair and 
reasonable thing to do here as Im mindful  that Miss R acknowledges the monthly  payments 
were affordable for her when she initially took the loan. Equally, in her email of 17 August 
2018, Miss R does acknowledge that she should  pay some interest as well as what she 
initially borrowed.
Taking all of this together I think that 100%  of the amount borrowed  doesnt appear to be 
unreasonable here  especially as were talking  about  a loan with an 18 month term. So, at 
present, Im inclined to say that L2G needs  to ensure that Miss R pays no more  than this 
here.
For the avoidance of doubt, I also wish to make it clear that this isnt a case of me simply 
applying the cost cap in CONC 5A  irrespective  of me reaching a decision on whether or 
not this happened.  After all a breach of the cost cap set out in CONC 5A.2 would typically 
render the agreement unenforceable. Thats not what Im saying should happen here.
Overall and having given considerable thought to this matter, bearing in mind the particular 
circumstances Miss Rs complaint, I think it would  be fair and reasonable, in all the 
circumstances of this case,  for L2G to do the following:
reduce the outstanding balance on Miss Rs loan to £1,800.00;  and
arrange an affordable  payment plan with Miss R so that she can repay the above  
amount;
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to uphold Miss Rs complaint and tell Loans 2 
Go Limited to put things right in the way set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence I get by 28 February 2019  change my mind, thats 
what Ill tell L2G to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4441181