K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc wrongly  advised  her to invest in two 
unsuitable products  in 2005.
background
In 2005 Mrs D was 55, earning a modest  wage (paying basic  rate tax) and had £37,000  in 
cash, mainly due to a recent inheritance. She had a fairly small outstanding mortgage.
She was recommended  to invest £12,000  in 3  year capital-protected product where any 
returns were dependent  on the FTSE. The investment had to grow  by a minimum of 5.3% 
over the term to receive any return,  which was capped at a maximum of the equivalent of 
6.25% a year. She was also recommended to invest £12,000 in a five year capital-
guaranteed with-profits  fund with her money invested across  a range of risk-based  assets. 
Any returns  were based on various factors.
The advisors Fact Find recorded her attitude  to risk as three out of five, saying she was 
prepared to take more than a cautious  risk with her money. The subsequent suitability letter 
said her risk propensity was two out of five.
An adjudicator at this service  felt her complaint should be upheld.
He said the advisors  assessment of Mrs Ds attitude  to risk was contradictory and didnt tally 
with her recorded comment (in the Fact Find) that she wanted a guarantee on her money.  
As an inexperienced  investor he didnt believe shed have understood the standard  
phraseology used by the advisor  such as the balance  between  risk and reward. He also 
thought the advisor had wrongly  classified her as looking for long-term  investments given her 
comments about a three  to five year commitment  (roughly matching her projected retirement  
age).
Overall, taking account of all her circumstances,  he didnt  think she should have been 
advised to take any risk with her money as she couldnt afford to risk not getting a regular, 
guaranteed return  on it. In this context he felt the advisor didnt give a fair consideration to 
deposit account options, particularly given the attractive interest rates  on offer via fixed-rate 
bonds at the time.
He recommended redress based on a comparison between the performance of Mrs D's 
investments with that of the benchmarkset out below) and for Nat West to pay the 
difference between  the fair value  and the actual  value of the investments  along  with 
interest as indicated.
investment status benchmark from toadditional 
interest
three year fixed  
rate bond at
4.90%date of 
investmentthird 
anniversaryNatWest  
Life 
Guaranteed 
Capital
Bondmatured
BoE average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsthird 
anniversarydate of 
maturity8% simple  per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Ref: DRN40976202Norwich  
union  With- 
Profits  
Guaranteed 
Fundmatured five year fixed 
rate bond at
4.50%date of 
investmentdate of 
maturity8% simple  per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Nat West did not agree,  and said:
It is possible that the risk rating of three was a typographical error
However this is not a significant mistake as the overall description of Mrs Ds attitude 
to risk was cautious  which  these investments were
The adjudicators  view that insufficient  consideration was given to fixed-term deposit  
accounts was mere supposition; neither Mrs D or representative  stated this
The Suitability  Letter  confirms there  was a discussion of fixed-rate  bonds
It also outlined the array of options  discussed including  Cash  ISAs
Given what was recorded  there  is no evidence to conclude that a comparison 
between the recommended  products and fixed-rate bonds was not discussed
The potential risks and rewards were reasonably balanced: a fixed-rate bond would 
have paid 13.4% over the 3.5 years whereas the first capital-guaranteed product had 
the potential to return up to 25%
Given this, its not unreasonable to think Mrs D might have found such a potential 
appealing
The adjudicators  claims about  Mrs Ds financial situation were  also speculative,  and 
not based on evidence from her or her representative (for example, that she had no 
scope to replace  lost interest)
In fact, the Suitability Letter records that Mrs D felt she had sufficient surplus  income 
and capital and did not need further monies;  it also described her retirement   plans 
and finances
Given inflation was just 1.6% at the time, the absence  of any return would not in 
practice have significantly  impacted on her overall financial  situation
Mrs Ds representative has not complained  about  the other product (the with-profits  
bond) so this service  cannot assess this issue
Its generally held that for capital to retain its buying power it needs to be invested in 
some way so the reference to wanting  to preserve her capital in real terms doesnt 
necessarily mean  what the adjudicator implied i.e. she didnt want  to take any risk
The Suitability  Letter  also indicates that Mrs D was not risk-averse, as various 
sentences outline
Crucially, neither Mrs D nor her representative  has questioned the accuracy of the 
advisors notes
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that while Nat West disputed this services  power to consider this complaint, 
particularly concerning the with-profits bond, an ombudsman ruled that both parts of Mrs Ds 
complaint are within our jurisdiction. I also note that her representatives  Particulars of 
Ref: DRN40976203Claim state that while Nat West said she made an £12,000 investment she recalls it was 
more than this, adding: please investigate all policies  held under  Mrs Ds name.
I have therefore  not reconsidered this jurisdiction issue.
In essence I agree with the adjudicator and for the same  reasons, both about  the suitability 
of the advice and the appropriate  redress. In my view, he explained across several Views 
his reasoning and responded to most,  if not all, of Nat Wests comments. I will therefore 
concentrate on what I see are the key considerations  i.e. while  I have considered all of Nat 
Wests objections I will not respond to every single  one, especially where  I feel the 
adjudicators explanation  was satisfactory.
Firstly, it is important to note that Mrs D had no investment experience  and did not request 
financial advice but was approached by the bank  to speak to an advisor because of money  
she had on deposit.  This suggests she was not actively seeking to try and get a better return  
than that available, as the advisor records and Nat Wests complaints handler repeatedly 
reiterates.
In fact, this is a phrase used by financial advisors  in recommendations letters  which may, or 
may not, accurately sum up a clients attitude. As Mrs D had no investment experience I very 
much doubt  she came  up with these  words and I have no idea whether she fully understood 
their meaning or actively agreed to this description  of her outlook.
In this context, I note that Nat West, via a questionnaire,  asked Mrs D (when considering  her 
complaint): What sort of risk did you think were taking or willing  to take with your money? 
She simply  replied: I followed the advice of the financial  advisor.  In my view this offers 
persuasive evidence  as to Mrs Ds likely outlook  at the time i.e. she did not initiate the 
discussion about investments, offer active opinions about issues such as risk propensity, 
having no experience of such  matters,  but ultimately agreed with the advisors 
recommendations.
Further, I can see no reason for Nat West to argue that the advisors  decision to rate Mrs Ds 
attitude to risk as three out of five was a typographical  error. He clearly  wrote this number so 
I share  the adjudicators concern both about  the appropriateness of such  a rating  and the 
inconsistency with his later rating.
I acknowledge that the adjudicator made a number of assumptions  about Mrs Ds 
circumstances and that some of these were speculative. But I dont accept that they were 
generally unreasonable or implausible. That said, my decision is based on the following 
evidence as I see it.
Mrs D was fairly close to retirement, living on a modest wage and was, in my view,  therefore 
unlikely to be able to replace any losses, or loss of interest, on this very substantial portion of 
her savings/inheritance. I have seen no persuasive  evidence to contradict such an 
assumption.
She had no apparent prior desire  to take a risk with her savings  before  being approached by 
a Nat West advisor. Given both the above, the advisor had a particular  responsibility  to 
ensure that he fully assessed her potential  willingness to risk any of her money and fully 
understood the advantages and disadvantages of any recommended product. This should 
have included, in her case, a full and fair comparison of the most attractive risk-free 
Ref: DRN40976204alternatives such as fixed-term bonds.  I am not persuaded, from the available evidence, that 
he did so.
More broadly, I have  a number of concerns about  the advisors Suitability Report. Firstly,  I 
share the adjudicators view that the statement acknowledging that Mrs Ds priority  was to 
preserve this capital  in real terms should be read at face value i.e. Mrs D did not want  to 
take a risk with it.
Importantly, the advisor notes that Mrs D was holding the large inheritance  sum shed  
recently received  in her current account   where  by definition it would be earning very little if 
any interest. He then records that she felt, unsurprisingly, that the rate of return  could be 
improved. He notes  that she was willing to take a risk to reap the rewards of a better  return  
than that available via her current  account,  leaping to an assumption that she was therefore 
willing to risk any return on her capital. 
This, however, misses out on a whole series of alternatives which  would have guaranteed  
her a better return than her current account rate  ranging from deposit accounts,  Over 50s 
accounts to fixed-rate bonds. The fact that he does not spell this out is, in my view,  telling 
and suggests  he did not fully explore these opportunities for a better  risk-free  rate of return.
I acknowledge that the advisor says they discussed  a variety of products including savings 
bonds but does not spell out whether specific fixed-rate bonds  were discussed. He does not 
say whether he offered a clear  and comprehensive  comparison  of the potential returns  via 
these two products  and the returns on offer via comparable medium  term fixed-rate bonds. 
Given this, I think it is unlikely  that he did provide Mrs D with such  a comparison. In the 
absence of this I dont believe she was in a fully informed position to make a decision about  
whether to risk getting no return when she could have been guaranteed a far greater return 
than she was getting via her current account   with no risk at all.
Ive seen no evidence  that Mrs D would have been  able to make such a comparison herself 
given the complexity  of comparing rates across  different time spans and the potential  returns 
via these two different  products. It was therefore  essential that the advisor provided her with 
clear, written  comparisons so she could decide if she wanted  to risk getting no return on 
such a large portion of her savings, particularly given her broader  circumstances.
I have therefore  had to consider what would have been appropriate advice given Mrs Ds 
circumstances and what she would,  on balance, have  decided to do if the advisor  had given 
her a full and fair comparison of all the relevant options.
Overall, given she had no investment  experience,  had not sought  a meeting to discuss  risk-
based options and appeared to simply  wanted to get a better return  that that on offer on her 
current account, I think she would   more likely than not  have  been  happy with the 
significantly increased guaranteed returns available via three and five year fixed-rate bonds.
I dont accept Nat Wests view that the fixed-rate bond returns were  comparable with no 
return but the possibility of up to 25% i.e. the first product. In practice this recommended 
product, at its most  successful, could only deliver  6.25% a year whereas the three year 
fixed-rate bond  guaranteed 4.9% i.e. for a difference of just 1.35% a year Mrs D was risking 
getting no return at all. Ive seen no evidence  to suggest that the advisor pointed this out.
Ref: DRN40976205By comparison the advisor  offered no guide  to potential or likely  returns  on the second  
product. In fact, I think his description of it in the Suitability  Letter was completely  inadequate 
and I dont think Mrs D would have  been able to make  an informed decision of its potential  
suitability from the little he wrote. Instead,  I have  had to go to the product literature to 
understand how returns would be calculated, something I dont believe Mrs D should have 
been left to do in order  to try and assess its appeal compared to safer options such  as fixed-
rate bonds.  In fact, the factors involved in calculating bonuses are far from straight  forward  
and Ive seen  no evidence that the advisor  set these out or that Mrs D would have 
understood them from the literature alone.
I am therefore satisfied  that if properly advised Mrs D would, more likely than not, have 
committed both sums  of money  to interest-guaranteeing fixed-rate bonds rather than the 
recommended products.  I therefore believe that the adjudicators proposed redress  is fair 
and reasonable.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  National Westminster Bank  Plc to pay compensation as 
outlined above  (in the adjudicators table).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4097620