K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) was 
irresponsible to agree  to lend to her. 
Miss B wants Satsuma to clear the outstanding balances on the loans, refund the interest 
that she paid and remove them from her credit file.
background
Miss B took out two loans  with Satsuma between April and August  2017.  A summary of the 
loans is below:
No. Date of loan Amount borrowed
Term Repayments (monthly)
Date repaid  
1 1/4/2017 £400 3 months £197 N/a
2 2/8/2017 £510 4 months £206 N/a
The adjudicator recommended that Miss Bs complaint be upheld.  The adjudicator thought  
that Satsuma shouldnt have agreed either  loan.  She recommended  that Satsuma refund the 
interest and charges Miss B had paid on the loans. The adjudicator also recommended that 
Satsuma remove any negative information  about the loans  from Miss Bs credit  file. 
Satsuma disagreed with the adjudicators view so the complaint  has come to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
When Satsuma lent to Miss B, the regulator  was the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) and 
the relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC).  
The CONC  carried guidance for lenders about  responsible lending.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Satsuma should  fairly  and reasonably  have  done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN49084032the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish whether 
Miss B could sustainably  repay her loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the customer should  be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
Satsuma has given  us evidence of the affordability  checks that it carried out. According to 
the agreement  notes for loan one, after carrying out enhanced affordability checks, Satsuma 
found that Miss B had a monthly income  of just over £517 and outgoings of £509. This left 
Miss B with a disposable monthly income of under £7.50.
Although Satsuma says that Miss Bs outgoings  included the loan repayments  that she was 
due to make  to Satsuma,  I dont  think this means  that the repayments were sustainable. 
Miss B was left with less than a £8 margin  for any unexpected expenses.  I dont think this 
was enough to say that Miss B could afford to repay  loan one without undue difficulty.
Satsuma says that it didnt need to carry out enhanced affordability  checks for loan two. And 
that based on the income and expenditure information that Miss B gave, loan two was 
affordable. However,  the amount that Miss B was borrowing had increased since loan one.. 
And loan one remained outstanding. 
I think that based on what Satsuma found  out about  Miss Bs finances only a few months 
previously, it shouldve realised that her financial situation hadnt improved and that loan two 
wasnt sustainable. Particularly as Satsumas own credit search had already revealed at 
least one other account in arrears.
Overall, I consider that its fair to uphold Miss Bs complaint about both loans.
Ref: DRN49084033I understand that Miss B is currently in a repayment plan with Satsuma for loan one and is 
making payments  to a third party for loan two. Miss B had the benefit  of the money lent, so I 
dont consider it reasonable to write off the outstanding principal balances on loans  one and 
two. However, the important thing is to make sure that Miss B has paid or will pay no more in 
total than the principal  amount she borrowed.
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Miss B paid on loans one and two;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  
remove any unpaid interest and charges from loans one and two;
if it chooses to, apply the refund  to any outstanding principal balance  before paying the 
remaining balance (if there is any) to Miss B; and
remove any negative information  about the loans from Miss Bs credit file once the loans 
are settled.
I understand that Satsuma has passed  the outstanding debt on loan two to a third party.  
Satsuma should  buy the debt back in order to carry out the above steps. But if this isnt 
possible, Satsuma  should (in addition to the above  if necessary);
arrange to repay  any portion of the sum due to the third party  that is made up of 
interest and charges   including any added by the third party;
refund  any interest and charges  that Miss B has already paid to the third party,  plus 
8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of settlement; and 
direct  the third party to remove any negative information about loan two from       
Miss Bs credit file once the loan has been settled.
If Satsuma no longer owns the debt and doesnt buy it back  then Satsuma isnt entitled to 
make any deductions  for it from the amount that it needs to pay Miss B.
If after taking the above steps there  is still a principal balance  due, I remind Satsuma of its 
obligation to treat Miss B fairly and reasonably in any settlement discussions  taking 
account of course  of any repayment arrangements that may already be in place. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Miss B a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If Satsuma 
intends to apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  balance,  it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
Ref: DRN49084034my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct  Provident 
Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma)  to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4908403