K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Santander UK Plc (Santander)  mis-sold  them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs L bought  the policy in 2002 sometime after taking out a mortgage. They applied 
for the PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr L for accident  and sickness  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  £414 a month towards Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage  balance in the 
event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £13.49 a month. 
At the time,  Mr L was self-employed as a builder. He has told us he was not entitled to any 
sick pay. But he did say he had the accident and sickness policy with Santander that 
couldve been used  towards repaying their mortgage  should he be unable to work. Mr L has 
told us about a health issue  he had a significant  number of years before the sale. He has 
also added  he had another medical  problem but cant  recall whether it was diagnosed  before 
or after the sale.  
Mrs L was not covered  by the policy. 
Santander has sent us a mortgage transaction list to show  that the mortgage account with 
which Mr and Mrs L originally took the PPI, closed in 2003. 
Mr and Mrs Ls representative  has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ls representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs L 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Ls representatives  believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr and Mrs L about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs L 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN46542742The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs L received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs L disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  
for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ls. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN46542743The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Santander, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes  into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ls case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs L with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs L sufficient, appropriate and timely  information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN46542744-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs L, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent 
Mr and Mrs L suffered loss or damage  and what  I consider  would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs L 
and Santander,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.  Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs L know they had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Neither Santander nor Mr and Mrs L have  been  able to provide all the documents from the 
time of sale,  I dont think thats surprising given how long ago the policy was sold. But it does 
mean I have limited information about  the sale, so I have to decide  what  I think is more likely 
based on the available evidence. 
I note Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage  started  in 1991, and the PPI wasnt taken until 2002. So as 
they had the mortgage  for a significant  number of years without this PPI  I think they ought 
to have known  it was a separate and optional product. 
Santander has provided a copy of a thank you letter Mr L was sent after the policy was set 
up  it set out the cost. Santander also says Mr L called  to increase the benefit amount of 
this policy  several times after it was originally set up  so he was clearly aware of it. Had 
Mr L not agreed to take the PPI  I wouldve expected him to have questioned why it had 
been set up once he was aware  of it. 
I also note that Santander  offered PPI with a range of options.  For example, Mr and Mrs L 
couldve bought  full accident,  sickness and unemployment  cover or unemployment cover 
only, or accident and sickness  only. They chose to buy cover  for accident and sickness  
cover for Mr L only (as I understand he was self-employed  at the time). So, this PPI policy  
appears to have been tailored to Mr and Mrs Ls needs and they appear to have exercised 
some degree of consideration and choice.  
Weve seen a number of cases from around  the time of sale and developed a good 
understanding of Santanders usual sales processes. It usually made the optional  nature of 
the PPI clear  and wouldnt have added it to its customers account without their consent  
and Ive seen  nothing in this case to make me think that Santander didnt follow  its usual 
process. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs L knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN46542745did Santander provide advice?
Santander says that advice  was provided  during this sale and Mr and Mrs L havent said if 
they agree.  Looking  at what happened  when Santander sold Mr and Mrs L the PPI, Im 
persuaded that it provided advice. I say this because, from what Ive seen of sales  made in 
branch during a meeting, the sales were  usually advised. And Ive got no reason to doubt 
what Santander says.  
This means  Santander  had to advise Mr and Mrs L with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Santander took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs L. It seems Mr and Mrs L cant remember  clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser likely had some limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Ls financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence  
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr L would  have been  caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
their needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest Santander considered whether Mr L 
had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs L given  their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Santander  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs L, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr L met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs L had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ls ability  to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if Mr L 
was not working  for an extended  period of time  as he was self-employed he didnt 
have any employee benefits to fall back on (such as sick pay). 
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs L.
 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs L. 
Mr L says he was self-employed,  but he didnt take the unemployment element of the 
cover  so the terms related to self-employed workers wouldnt have affected him. 
Regarding pre-existing  medical  conditions, Mr L has told us about a medical 
condition experienced a significant number of years before  the sale and another  
health issue which may have been  experienced either before or after the sale,  but he 
hasnt told us he needed to take any time off work  for either  so I dont think  these 
made the PPI unsuitable. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover  for 
mental health or back problems.
Ref: DRN46542746-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr L be disabled or unemployed for 28 
days before Mr L could make a claim and would only pay benefits for a maximum of 
12 months for each  claim, it still provided  valuable cover given: Mr and Mrs Ls 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs L be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs L 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Santander was recommending  to them and make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs L were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr L was unable to work  through accident or sickness)  and of the approximate costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs L would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs L agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs L, Im not persuaded 
Santander did enough to present information about the policy  it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs L all of 
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ls representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ls. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ls representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs L about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ls representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good  
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
Ref: DRN46542747would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs L have suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs L? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs L suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to 
Mr and Mrs L. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs L suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs L would have still taken  out the policy,  had Santander done 
things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs L, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs L have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Santander had explained  things 
properly, Mr and Mrs L would have  acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs L say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs L had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Santander advised them  that there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event 
Mr L was unable to work  because  of accident  and sickness, they concluded  they wanted that 
product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  they 
thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them. But 
the information about aspects of the policy,  such as the cost,  benefit, limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs L knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Santander told them the exact  premium  at the 
point Mr and Mrs L applied for the policy.  Having said that, it seems  likely Mr and Mrs L 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
Ref: DRN46542748of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with Santander  at the time, or reconsidered 
their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs L would have  found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Mr and Mrs L would get 
back in return in the event Mr L made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely  
Mr and Mrs Ls expectations  about  what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an 
amount sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different to what  the 
policy actually did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs L thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr L had at the start 
date of the policy or for which he had received treatment or advice during the 12 
months before the start date of the policy;   
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr L 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr L be unable to 
do his own job or any paid work which his experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs L pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs L from taking  out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr L was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. Although Mr L says he was self-
employed when  the PPI was taken out, he didnt take the unemployment element of the 
cover  so the terms related to this section wouldnt have affected  him. And like I explained  
above, while the policy did exclude claims arising  out of pre-existing medical  conditions,  its 
not clear whether one of Mr Ls health  issues was pre-existing. And, in any event, he didnt 
tell us these health issues required him to take any time off work  so I dont think he 
wouldve envisaged that these would be the main reasons hed need to make a claim. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs L would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
Ref: DRN46542749If Mr and Mrs L had known  Mr L could  only claim for disability if he was not only unable to do 
his job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers  view he might  reasonably  be 
qualified for, it might  have  played into their thinking about what  they would do. And I accept it 
may have  given them pause for thought  although  given  Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances, on 
balance, I still think they would have been  interested in taking  out the cover.
Santander may not have told Mr and Mrs L that any claim they made  would be limited to a 
12-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for 
 but Mr L didnt have any employee  benefits to fall back on, and he hasnt told us he had 
any savings either. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs L would still have thought  a policy  that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs L be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs L would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr L was unable to work  through 
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not Mr and Mrs L 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ls representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints  (DISP  App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs L would not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs L found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Ref: DRN465427410Mr and Mrs L believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs L in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mr and Mrs L compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs L think Santander  misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave 
Mr and Mrs L, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards  I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 2002  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ls representative  says a court might take if 
it were to find Santander negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs L and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Santander had been in breach  of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs L in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2021.
Asma Begum 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4654274