K822xComplaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc unfairly  added information about him onto 
national fraud prevention  databases. He says this prevented him opening a bank  account  
and from securing employment.
Background 
In July 2017, Barclays received a fraud report from a third party  bank. It said Mr Ms account 
had been credited with £600 in April 2017  but that its customer  hadnt authorised the 
transaction. Barclays blocked Mr Ms account and investigated. It found that Mr M had 
withdrawn the credit  within a few minutes of it being  received and, taking into account the 
previous conduct  of the account,  took the decision to close it. Mr M had to provide 
supporting evidence before the bank  would allow him to withdraw  the closing balance of the 
account. 
Mr M complained but the bank only investigated  the closure of his account, which it 
defended. It didnt investigate the fraud  prevention reports it had made to CIFAS and Hunter 
 the UKs two national fraud  prevention databases. 
Mr M says he couldnt open another bank  account  because of the fraud markers and that 
this stopped him getting a job  because prospective employers needed him to have  an 
account. So, at the end of 2018,  he complained again.
The bank phoned Mr M to ask for his recollection of the £600  credit.  Mr M said he was owed 
money from an ex-partner. But he couldnt  remember much else about the transactions on 
his account at that time. He couldnt  understand why the bank was asking about this 
payment  he thought his account had been  closed due to a credit of £4,000  in June  2017  
because this was the transaction that hed had to provide supporting evidence for.
After Mr M referred his complaint to this Service, he confirmed  that the £600 was money  that 
his ex-partner owed  him. He told us the break-up had been acrimonious and he provided  
evidence of some false allegations  that shed made  against him. We forwarded this evidence 
to Barclays and it agreed to remove the fraud  markers.  It also offered to pay Mr M £750  for 
the distress caused.
Our investigator thought this offer was fair. He couldnt see that Mr M had suffered severe  
financial hardship and he couldnt say that Mr Ms inability to open an account or secure a 
job was solely caused by Barclays.
Mr M didnt  agree the amount  of compensation offered was enough. He was able to provide 
some information from a building society where  hed tried to open an account. But he didnt 
provide any other evidence.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays told us  in October 2019  that it would remove the information  it had recorded  
about Mr M with the fraud prevention agencies. I agree this is the right outcome  Mr M has 
provided enough evidence to call into question the reliability of the fraudulent report.
Ref: DRN43337552That leaves me to decide whether Barclays offer of £750 compensation is fair and 
reasonable.
From the records of its fraud investigation, it looks like Barclays  didnt ask Mr M about the 
£600 credit  until his second complaint in 2018.  When it took the decision  to close his account 
and report him to the fraud prevention agencies, Mr M understood this was because of a 
£4,000 credit to his account on 3 July 2017.  He couldnt withdraw this money until he 
provided supporting  evidence  of where  and who it was from. If Barclays had asked Mr M 
about the £600 credit as part of its fraud investigation, I think it may have found his version  
of events plausible.  In all likelihood,  it would have cast enough doubt on the allegation of the 
third party meaning the required standard of proof  wouldnt  have been  met  that the 
evidence must be clear,  relevant and rigorous such that the member  could confidently report  
the conduct of the subject to the police.
So I find that Barclays made mistakes with both its fraud investigation and its first complaint 
investigation. And Im satisfied that its mistakes  have clearly impacted  Mr M. But its difficult  
to say whether  Mr Ms inability to open an account  and to secure employment was solely 
due to the fraud prevention markers.  Even if it was, Mr M hasnt been able to provide 
evidence of any financial loss he incurred as a result.  Ive not seen  evidence  to show that he 
failed to secure a job solely because of his inability to open a bank account.
I appreciate its been difficult  for Mr M to provide the required evidence.  And I am not 
unsympathetic to the position in which he found  himself  for more than two years. But, 
overall, I think the banks  offer of £750 fairly compensates  Mr M for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK Plc should:
1.Remove the fraud prevention markers  against Mr Ms name, if it has not already done  
so; and
2.Pay Mr M £750 for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4333755