K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about the administration of his whole-of-life and critical illness  cover policy
by Zurich Assurance Limited.  He says that although he cancelled  his direct  debit in May 
2017 the business continued to take the cost of the premiums from the value of the policy.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision, a copy of which is 
attached.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2019  upholding  the complaint in part. Both parties  
were given an opportunity  to respond with any further representations they wished to make.  
Both parties  responded and accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
My decision  is that Mr Gs complaint  is upheld  in part for the reasons outlined in my 
provisional decision; a copy of which is attached and forms part of this decision.
So as I have set out in my provisional  decision the business should  use the cash in value for 
the policy as it was on 19 June 2017. The business should then minus the deductions from
1 September 2017 to the date of surrender from that value.
It should then compare that figure with what was paid out to Mr G in February  2018  and pay 
him the difference plus interest  at eight percent simple per year from February 2018 to the 
date of settlement
 
my final decision
My final decision is that Mr Gs complaint  against Zurich Assurance  Limited  is upheld  in part 
for the reasons outlined in my provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN46963442Provisional decision 
complaint
Mr G complains about the administration of his whole-of-life and critical illness cover policy by Zurich  
Assurance Limited. He says that although he cancelled his direct debit in May
2017 the business continued  to take the cost of the premiums from the value  of the policy.
background
Mr G cancelled  the direct debit which  funded his whole-of-life policy in May 2017.  The business  wrote 
to Mr G on 13 June 2017 to tell him that the June monthly payment  had not been paid. In that letter  
the business told him that if the premium was not paid by the end of the month protection  would  
cease.
No further  payment was made and on 9 August  2017 the business wrote to Mr G again. It said that as 
premiums were outstanding the cover being provided by his policy  would be paid for using the cash 
value of the plan.
In February 2018 the business sent Mr G the annual statement for his policy  which gave the value of 
the policy  and said the cost of the cover was being funded out of the cash  value. Shortly after 
receiving this Mr G contacted the business and surrendered the policy.
Mr G then complained  to the business. He said he thought he had cancelled the policy by cancelling  
the direct debit. He referred to the June letter which indicated that protection would stop. He said the 
business should pay him the value of the policy as at June 2017  not the value he had received in 
February 2018.
The business  upheld his complaint in part. It accepted the June 2017 letter  should  have been clearer 
and paid Mr G £50 for the trouble and upset caused. But it didnt  agree to pay Mr G the value of the 
policy as it was in June 2017. It said the terms and conditions said where there were unpaid 
premiums, provided the policy  had sufficient value, the premiums would be funded by the cash  value.
Mr G didnt agree and referred  his complaint to our service. He said his circumstances had changed 
(he had retired) and so he had no longer needed or could afford  the policy. He said that was why he 
had cancelled  the direct  debit. Mr G said the June 2017 letter  was misleading and had led him to 
believe that the protection provided by the plan would stop.
Our adjudicator considered  Mr Gs complaint. She wasnt convinced it should be upheld.  She took into 
account the content of both letters. The adjudicator felt the August 2017 letter  had made it clear  what  
would happen next. She considered Mr G was made aware of the surrender value by way of the 
annual statement in February  2017  but he hadnt surrendered the policy. She was satisfied that the 
business had acted within the terms and conditions  of the policy. The adjudicator noted  that Mr G was 
abroad when the August 2017 letter arrived.  But she didnt think  it was fair and reasonable for the 
business to pay him the June 2017 value  in the circumstances.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G had a whole-of-life policy with critical  illness  cover.  This type of policy is primarily  designed  to 
provide life assurance and critical illness  cover  but it can also accrue a surrender or cash in value.
Ref: DRN46963443I accept that Mr G cancelled his direct debit because he no longer wanted the policy. The business 
didnt automatically stop his policy.  It wrote to warn him that there was an unpaid premium and then it 
wrote to Mr G again to tell him that as there were still outstanding premiums the cost of the policy 
would be paid for by the fund value.
I think  it is reasonable  for the business to wait for an express instruction  to cancel  the policy rather 
than cancelling it automatically because of an unpaid  premium. In practice  direct  debits can be 
cancelled in error or there can be non-payment as a result of financial issues.  Sometimes 
policyholders want to use the fund value so they can continue  to have the protection  provided  by the 
policy. It is sensible for the business to make sure the policyholder  actually wants  to cancel the policy  
and lose the life protection.
The terms  and conditions of this policy expressly set out what would happen  in the event  that 
premiums werent paid.
Mr G didnt contact  the business and say he would  like to cancel his policy until February
2018. So the business took the premiums  from the cash value which it was allowed  to do under  the 
terms and conditions  of the policy.
But Mr G says if he had understood  that the premiums would be paid out of the cash value  he would 
have contacted  the business and cancelled  the policy. He says the June letter made him believe that 
the protection would stop and the policy would come  to an end. Mr G says he didnt receive the 
August letter.  It appears Mr G was abroad at that time and remained abroad for a number of months. 
(His representative has explained that he lives abroad for a significant proportion of the year.)
The June letter said
We value the fact that you chose this Policy  as an important  part of your overall-financial planning-
and we do-not-want you to lose-any-of its benefits by missing payment of your contributions. Under 
the terms of the Policy, protection ceases if the contribution remains unpaid at the end of this month.
I tend to agree with Mr G that this letter gave a misleading impression  of what  would  happen  next.
The business  says that the terms and conditions  state  that the cash value will be used if there is a 
certain level of cash value and there are unpaid premiums. I agree  that this is set out in the terms and 
conditions. But I dont think Mr G would have remembered the detail of the terms and conditions he 
signed up to many years  ago. I think he would  have  relied  upon what  the business told him at the 
time. I think the misunderstanding  was initially  caused by the letter of 13 June  2017.
I also consider  what Mr G says about what  he would have done if he had understood what would  
happen appears, on balance,  to be supported by his actions. As shortly after he received the annual 
statement in February 2018 he surrendered his policy  and complained to the business.
I am satisfied  on balance  that if Mr G had understood what would happen  with the cash value  then he 
would have contacted the business to surrender the policy. So the cash  value wouldnt  have been 
reduced by deductions for the monthly premiums.
Having said that, I have to take into account that the business did send Mr G a more detailed letter  on 
9 August 2017. That letter  said:
as you have  built up a sufficient cash value on your plan,  the full level of your life cover will be 
maintained until the cash value of your plan has reduced to zero.
I am satisfied  that this letter made it clear that the cash value would be used to fund the protection as 
is provided for in the terms and conditions. This letter  was correctly addressed. The business  has 
confirmed it didnt  receive anything to say the letter hadnt been delivered. So I am satisfied on 
balance that it was delivered to Mr Gs address.
Ref: DRN46963444I appreciate that Mr G was away  abroad when  the letter arrived. As he was away for more than a 
short holiday  period I asked Mr G what his arrangements were for his post. He explained, through  his 
representative, that his neighbours would collect the post on a regular basis and forward anything 
which appeared important.  A few times a year the rest of the post would be opened  and scanned.
I think  it likely  that this system  would allow certain  letters, such as the one from the business, to slip 
through the net. I dont think that is the fault of the business. So I don think  it would be fair and 
reasonable to say the business should  simply pay Mr G the value as at June  2017.
I think  with a more  comprehensive  system it would be reasonable  to have expected Mr G to have 
considered and responded  to this letter within around 3 weeks.
I also take into account  that some of the difficulty was caused because Mr G did not formally cancel 
the policy   he just cancelled  the direct debit. I understand he says he was not aware there was a 
surrender value. But the annual statement sent in February  2017 did clearly refer to cash  -in value.
Overall I think  a fair and reasonable resolution  of the complaint would be for the business to use the 
cash in value  at 19 June 2017. (The business has said it took around 2-3 days to process  the 
surrender of this policy.) But the business should then minus the deductions from 1 September 2017  
to the date of surrender.
It should then compare that figure with what was paid out to Mr G in February 2018 and pay him the 
difference plus interest at eight percent simple per year from February  2018  to the date of settlement.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that for the reasons outlined I upheld Mr Gs complaint against
Zurich Assurance Limited in part.
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4696344