K822xcomplaint
Mrs A has complained about the way Tesco Underwriting Ltd have handled  her car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Tesco  includes their agents.
background 
Mrs A had car insurance with Tesco during the policy  year April 2016 to April 2017. Her total 
annual premium, which included interest  because she paid in monthly  instalments, was just 
under £1,100. She was paying just over £80 a month. During  that policy year she changed  
address and told Tesco. As a result, they amended her policy  and she was charged an 
additional premium.  Her monthly payments increased to just over £100.
Mrs As policys end date was 18 April 2017.  Three weeks before  the policy ended,  Tesco 
said they sent Mrs A a renewal invite by email. Including  interest  for monthly  payments, the 
new premium  was almost £4,100 for the year. The monthly payments were around  £340. But 
Tesco said that soon  after their renewal notice was sent to Mrs A, a claim involving her 
named driver was registered, so they amended the renewal premium  to just over £4,600.  
Her monthly  payments were to be around  £500.  Tesco said they told Mrs A about the 
increase in an amended renewal notice dated  1 April 2017 that they said they emailed to 
her.
Mrs A said that she didnt receive any emails or any correspondence from Tesco about the 
renewal invite and the first she knew of the increase in premium  was when she saw the first 
direct debit payment  leave her account. Mrs A complained saying the increase was 
excessive and that she hadnt  been  notified of the increase. On 15 May 2017, she cancelled 
the policy. She also asked  her bank to get back the first payment made from her account. 
Tesco instructed  debt collectors to recover the first months payment from Mrs A because  
they said she was insured  with them between 18 April and 15 May 2017.
Tesco said that when  Mrs A had updated her address in August 2016, while she gave them 
her new address she didnt tell them  the house  number, so they didnt have her full address 
to send the renewal  information by post. But they said her preferred method  of contact was 
by email and thats how they sent her the renewal information.
Tesco said they hadnt done  anything wrong  so they didnt  uphold  Mrs As complaint. Mrs A 
didn't think  that was fair and brought  her complaint to us. One of our adjudicators  looked  into 
the complaint.  He felt that Tesco hadnt treated Mrs A fairly. He said that Tesco  should  
recalculate the premium  and also pay Mrs A £150  compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience she experienced. As Tesco didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 1 March  2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold 
this complaint. My role is to decide if Tesco  have  dealt  with Mrs A in a fair and 
reasonable way.
premium calculation
Ref: DRN41127742Mrs A believes the increase of her premium  was unfair. It might help if I explain that 
we're not the industry regulator. That means it's not my role to tell an insurer how 
much they can charge  for their policies. And our service generally  takes  the view 
that, providing they treat people fairly  - that is they treat customers  with similar  
circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they 
need to in order to cover a risk.
The premium Mrs A was charged  on renewal  was substantially higher  than her 
previous years premium,  so I can understand why she was concerned.  But just 
because it was higher,  I don't think that means that Tesco treated her unfairly.  Tesco 
provided me with information to show how they calculated  Mrs As premium.  That 
information is commercially sensitive so I can't share it with Mrs A. But having  looked  
at it carefully, Im satisfied  that Tesco treated Mrs A in the same way as they would 
other policyholders  in similar circumstances. So I think they calculated  her premium 
reasonably.
When setting premiums  insurers  will think about the likelihood that their policyholders 
will make a claim and how much  they will have to pay out for those. And its not down 
to me to tell insurers what factors they should take into account when assessing  risk, 
nor how to go about those  assessments. Different  insurers will have different views 
on what presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially a matter of 
commercial judgement, balancing risk against the need to compete with other  
policies on offer, and not something we would usually think  its fair to interfere with. 
So I cant say Mrs A has been singled out or treated differently to others in similar  
circumstances.
renewal notice
One of Mrs As complaints was that she didnt know about the premium increase until 
she checked her bank account, she said she didnt  receive a renewal notice.
Tesco said that they couldnt send  Mrs A the renewal notice by post because  when 
she updated her address  she didnt give them her house number. They  also said her 
preferred method of contact was by email and thats how they sent her the renewal 
notices.
I have been shown evidence by Tesco that satisfies me that they sent her the 
renewal notices by email. But Mrs A said that she didnt receive those emails. Given 
the very substantial increase in the premium, I think that had Mrs A seen the renewal 
notices she wouldnt have  gone  ahead with the renewal. Im aware that sometimes a 
properly sent email isnt always received by the recipient. So I think  it is possible for 
Tesco to have sent the renewal notices to Mrs As correct  email address, but for Mrs 
A to have  not received  them. But Tesco were  aware that Mrs A didnt reply  to either 
of the two renewal  notices  they sent her. But they went ahead and renewed  the 
policy after amending Mrs As direct debit  to the increased amount.
I havent been shown any evidence to say Mrs A agreed to an automatic renewal. 
But even if she had, given  the increase in premium from the previous year was 
substantial (around  400%), I dont think Mrs A would  have agreed to renew her 
policy. She was paying around £100  a month  the previous year so even if she had 
Ref: DRN41127743agreed for her policy to renew  automatically,  I think she would  have done  so on the 
expectation that the renewed policy would cost around  the same  amount. 
Tesco said that they didnt know Mrs As house number because she didnt provide it 
when she gave them her new address.  If that information was missing, Tesco could 
have called Mrs A and asked for her house number. They could  have then written  to 
her by post.  They could have  also called  her before the renewal to check if she was 
happy to go ahead with the renewal policy on the increased premium, but they didnt. 
I therefore dont  think Tesco  have acted reasonably.
To put things right I intend  to require Tesco to recalculate the premium pro-rate for 
the period Mrs A was on cover between 18 April and 15 May 2017.  I think they 
should charge  her the same rate that she paid in the last month of the previous 
years policy  (April  2016 to April 2017).
Im aware that Mrs A experienced distress and inconvenience  as a result  of Tesco 
instructing debt collectors to pursue her. While  I understand Tesco  felt that they were 
entitled to recover  money  from her, once Mrs A complained on 19 May 2017 I think  
Tesco shouldnt have  pursued Mrs A through debt collectors until the complaint was 
concluded. For that reason I intend to require Tesco to pay Mrs A £150  
compensation.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mrs A agreed with my provisional 
findings but said she had paid over £100  to debt recovery agents as a result  of the recovery  
action Tesco instigated. She said she wanted that refunded  to her. Tesco said:
Mrs A agreed to automatic renewal of her policy.
They didnt have  to do more than they did to alert Mrs A to the increase in premium.
Even if they had Mrs As full address, they would  have still only emailed  her given 
that was her preferred method of contact.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. But I would like to respond  to the additional  comments as follows:
Tesco provided me with a computer screenshot relating to Mrs As policy that had an 
entry that said Delivery Method D. Tesco said the D stands for digital which  
means email correspondence.  They said this shows that Mrs A agreed to email  
correspondence. I acknowledged that the screenshot  said Delivery Method D but I 
told Tesco that it didnt  prove that Mrs A agreed to receiving correspondence  by 
email. I asked Tesco for evidence that showed  Mrs A agreed to all her 
correspondence from them to be by email. But other than providing me with the same 
screenshot, no other evidence has been provided. 
Tesco provided me with a computer screenshot relating to Mrs As policy that had an 
entry that said Auto Renew Y. Tesco said the Y stands for yes and that this entry 
means that Mrs A agreed to the automatic renewal of her policy.  I acknowledged that 
the screenshot said Auto Renew Y but I said it didnt prove that Mrs A agreed to the 
automatic renewal of her policy in 2017. I asked  Tesco for evidence  that showed 
Mrs A agreed to the automatic renewal of her policy. But other than providing  me with 
the same  screenshot, no other evidence has been provided. 
Ref: DRN41127744Tesco also provided me with a screenshot of a page from an online policy 
application. I dont  think its from Mrs As actual application. The page appears  to be 
towards the end of an application as it contains  payment details. After the payment 
details there is a notice telling the applicant that their policy  will automatically  renew.  
This page doesnt ask them if the agree to that.
Tesco also provided an extract from the inception  documents  that says the policy  will 
automatically renew. They also provided an extract from the 2017 renewal invite 
which said the policy would automatically  review.
The relevant  renewal in question  that has been complained  about  is the April 2017 renewal. I 
asked Tesco to provide evidence which demonstrated Mrs A agreed  to her policy renewing 
automatically in 2017. Im not satisfied that the computer screenshot  Tesco provided me that 
shows Auto Renew  Y proves that Mrs A agreed  to the automatic renewal. The screenshot 
only shows the Auto Renew Y entry on their system. The same applies to the Delivery 
Method D entry on the screenshot.
I also dont think the screenshot of the online application, the notice in the inception 
document or the 2017  renewal invite prove that Mrs A agreed to her 2017 policy being 
automatically renewed. The notice on the online screenshot and in the inception documents  
simply say the policy will automatically  renew.  But it doesnt prove that Mrs A agreed  to that. 
I asked Tesco if there  was any evidence in the form of a telephone conversation or an email 
exchange with Mrs A in which she was asked  and she agreed to the automatic renewal.  Or 
indeed a screenshot of her online application where  she was asked and she ticked a box 
indicating her agreement  to her policy renewing.  But no such  evidence  has been provided.  
The same applies to the issue of the method of communication Tesco said Mrs A agreed  to.
Im therefore  not satisfied  that theres convincing evidence to show  that Mrs A agreed  to the 
automatic renewal of her policy in 2017 and to her preferred  form of correspondence from 
Tesco being  by email. But I think that even  if there  was convincing  evidence, given the 
premium had increased very significantly from just over £1,000 to over £4,600,  I think  Tesco  
should have made more  efforts to contact her, other  than sending  emails.
Finally, when Mrs A told our service  that she paid over £100 in fees to a debt recovery  
agency because  of the recovery  action  instigated by Tesco, we asked for documentary 
evidence so that we could  consider it. But as we havent been  provided with the necessary 
evidence, Im not making any further findings or awards in relation  to that.
Ref: DRN41127745my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Tesco  Underwriting Ltd 
to:
Recalculate the premium pro-rate for the period Mrs A was on cover between  18 April 
and 15 May 2017. They should  charge  her the same rate that she paid in the last month 
of the previous years policy (April 2016  to April 2017).
Pay Mrs A £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her. This 
should be paid within 28 days  of us telling them that Mrs A has accepted my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.    
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4112774