K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about  the handling of a claim under their home emergency 
insurance policy with Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA).
background
In February 2019,  Mr and Mrs M reported  a claim as they could smell gas inside their home.  
A leak was found  under  the living room floor and engineers capped off their supply, as it was 
not safe. The engineers  said the gas pipe that was leaking fed the cooker only and it was 
buried in concrete. They said they could  dig up the floor to repair  the pipe or cut off that pipe 
and reroute the gas supply to the cooker.  Mr and Mrs M say it was agreed  that the engineers 
would reroute the pipe, as this was the easier option. 
The engineers capped off the leaking pipe and restored the gas supply to the rest of the 
property, so that Mr and Mrs M had heating  and hot water again. The engineers then 
apparently told Mr and Mrs M that someone would be in touch to arrange an appointment to 
reroute the pipe to the cooker.  However, the following day IPA told Mr and Mrs M it would 
not cover  the rerouting work.  It says its obligation  is to resolve  any immediate emergency  
which in this situation was the fact Mr and Mrs M were without a working  boiler  and it has 
done that; not having a cooker is not an emergency  under the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs M are very unhappy with this. They say they would obviously have  chosen  to 
have the floor dug up and the pipe properly repaired, if they had known theyd  be left without 
a cooker and would  have  to pay the cost of rerouting  the pipe themselves. Instead IPA has 
damaged their property  by cutting the pipe to the cooker,  which is not what they agreed to. 
Mr and Mrs M says they have had to use camping  stoves and gas canisters to cook. They  
want the cooker gas supply reconnected and compensation.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She did not recommend  that the complaint 
be upheld, as she was satisfied IPA had acted  fairly  and reasonably and in line with the 
policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs M do not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter  has been passed  
to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for certain  emergency  situations, which  would make  their home 
uninhabitable or cause  damage or harm to the property  or occupants.  
In such as emergency the policy  provides that IPA will:
organise to pay up to £500 including VAT, call out, labour, parts  and materials to carry out 
an emergency repair, or if at a similar  expense a permanent repair.  
The policy contains  the following definitions:
Emergency repairs 
Ref: DRN41963962Work undertaken by an approved contractor  to resolve the emergency by completing a 
temporary repair. 
Temporary repair
A repair that will resolve an emergency  but will need  to be replaced  by a permanent  repair.
Permanent repair
The work required to put right the damage to the property that directly resulted in the 
emergency.
It seems  clear  to me that the policy only therefore covers temporary repairs to alleviate an 
emergency situation to either render the house  habitable again  or prevent further damage,  
and only up to a maximum  of £500 worth of work. The policy  might  cover permanent repairs 
but only if it would cost the same,  or thereabouts, as a temporary  repair.  
I am satisfied therefore that the policy would  only require  IPA to do the work required to 
restore the heating  and hot water  and not reroute the cooker pipe.  
However, Mr and Mrs M say they were  told the cooker would be reinstated.  I believe they 
were told this as there is an internal note of a conversation with the operative asking whether 
this would be covered  before IPA called  Mr and Mrs M to tell them  it would not be covered. 
Mr and Mrs M say they would have opted to have the floor taken up and the pipe repaired,  if 
theyd known the cooker would not be reconnected at the same  time. 
I therefore have  to consider what would have happened if Mr and Mrs M had been advised  
correctly by the engineer, before he disconnected the leaking pipe, that the cooker pipe 
would not be rerouted under the policy.
I dont think that taking up the floor and fixing the leaking pipe would have  been  covered by 
the policy. I say this not just because of the policy claim limit and that such  work would 
probably have  exceeded  that, but mainly  because the policy  only covers work required to 
resolve the immediate  emergency and this could be done by cutting off the leaking pipe. It 
seems to me that the options that would  have been  available to Mr and Mrs M, if they had 
bene correctly  advised by the engineer of the work  that would be covered, would have been 
either having the repair done as it was (cutting off the leaking pipe) to restore heating and 
hot water  only, or having the entire issue repaired privately. 
It seems  unlikely  to me that they would have opted  to pay for taking up the floor and 
repairing the pipe themselves. Therefore it seems  to me more likely than not, theyd have 
still ended  up in the same  position as they are now  having to pay for rerouting  of the pipe 
to the cooker  themselves. So while I can understand their dissatisfaction  at being led to 
believe the cooker would be reconnected under the policy, this doesnt mean that it should  
be covered. 
As I do not consider that IPA needed  to do reconnect  the cooker and Mr and Mrs M have not 
been put in a worse position  because of the misinformation given to them by the engineer.  It 
follows that I do not think IPA is responsible for the inconvenience of being without a cooker. 
I do not therefore intend to make any award  of compensation.
Ref: DRN41963963my final decision
Despite my natural  sympathy for Mr and Mrs Ms position, I do not uphold  this complaint 
against Inter Partner Assistance SA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 June  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4196396