K820x#14complaint
Mr Ts complaint against Tesco Personal  Finance Plc (Tesco) is in respect of its interest and 
charges on its credit  card account, which he thinks arent clear on his both his statements 
and in the terms and conditions of the account.  
background
From November 2018 to January 2019,  Mr T incurred a late payment charge, and some 
interest charges,  on his credit card account.
He complained to Tesco  about these, and it issued a final response letter  explaining that the 
charges had all been  applied fairly and correctly, and it referred to its terms and conditions 
that said it could  do this. 
Mr T didnt  think  his statements or the terms and conditions were  clear. He thought  this was 
unfair. So he brought his complaint to our service.  
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and concluded  that Tesco had already dealt fairly with 
Mr Ts complaint, so he couldnt  uphold it. 
Mr T provided further information,  which was looked at, but didnt change our Investigators  
mind. So he issued a further view explaining again  why he couldnt uphold the complaint.
Mr T still didnt agree,  and asked  for an ombudsmans  decision.  He said he still felt Tescos  
terms and conditions werent transparent because they said hed only pay interest until the 
balance was repaid in full, but hed then continued to pay interest  after this point.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that we cant uphold this complaint. 
This is because I havent been persuaded that Tescos either made a mistake with Mr Ts 
account, or that its treated  him unfairly.
I know this decision will be disappointing  for Mr T. I can see that the chain of events leading 
to the various  charges started  when he was only three days late in making his payment. But 
Im afraid thats exactly what  happens in that situation, and this is specifically anticipated  in 
the terms and conditions, which provides for what then happens. 
Whether or not the interest is fair or proportionate  isnt a matter  I can adjudicate on. My role 
is to assess the evidence, and ensure Tesco hasnt acted unfairly and I cant  say it has.
I do take the point  that the statements, the terms and conditions, and even Tescos  
explanation in the course of this complaint,  as to how all the interest sums were applied,  
arent crystal clear. I have to agree. These things rarely are. They  tend to be complex by 
their nature.  But Im not sure how much  clearer they can be due to the method and timings 
of the calculations. Interest may accrue  in one month, but not be payable  until the next 
month. Which explains why even after having paid the account in full, Mr T was still charged 
interest. 
Ref: DRN46193882While I dont think its immediately clear from the statements and terms and conditions  what 
the interest position  is, Im satisfied that Tescos explanation are as clear  as were going  to 
get. 
Im not going  to go over each of the interest  charges  again in this decision. This has already 
been done, and I dont  think it will serve any useful purpose. I can say Ive looked at Tescos 
explanations, and Im satisfied  with them. 
Ive also not seen any evidence to suggest the interest  calculations  are incorrect. And just 
because its not clear and straightforward to Mr T how the interest  was applied, isnt the 
same as saying it was incorrect or unfairly  applied.
My role here is to use the evidence to reach  an outcome thats  fair to both parties.  And thats 
what Ive done  here.  I hope therefore  Ive explained  why I dont think  it would be fair for me 
to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4619388