K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that he was lent money irresponsibly by CashEuroNet UK LLC trading as 
QuickQuid. 
background
Loan Date approved amountSum repaid 
(rounded)Date  repaid Other details
1 12 September 2014£400 
limitHighest 
scheduled 
repayment  
£1165 January 2015FlexCredit  
account
2 19 March 2015 £50 £53 23 March 2015due over 3 
payments  repaid  
early
3 3 April 2015 £100 £108 13 April 2015 repaid early
4 28 April 2015 £100 £169 23 July 2015 deferred x 2
5 23 July 2015 £250 £26023 and 31 July & 1 
August  2015due over 3 
payments- repaid 
early
6 20 August 2015 £550 £550 20 August 2015no interest 
charged
7 26 August 2015 £300 £35316 & 21 September  
2015due over 3 
payments.
repaid early
8 21 October 2015£400+
£450+
£150£1,410 4 January 2016multiple  
repayment dates
top ups x 2
repaid early
9 14 January  2016£950+
£150£1,845 11 April 2016top up x 1
Some late fees
10 3 May 2016 £950 £1,001outstanding 
balance  at 19 
February 2018payment plan 
from 6 June 2016
Using the information from QuickQuids records I have created this table. Mr Ms first loan 
was a FlexCredit account with a £400  limit approved in 2014.  After January 2015 Mr Ms 
other 9 loans were  payday loans. Mr M and QuickQuid have said that some of Loan  10 
remains outstanding.  
More of the background to this complaint  is set out in my provisional decision dated 
25 February 2019 which is attached to this final determination and forms part of it. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory  rules and good  industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Mr M has acknowledged the provisional  decision,  accepts it and has nothing else to add. 
QuickQuid has responded and as my provisional  decision was detailed  and had taken into 
account a lot of the points it has raised recently then I do not plan to repeat them. 
Ref: DRN45657292I do note that QuickQuid reiterates the fact that Mr M was not forthcoming  or truthful  with 
the information he gave it. But I also note that QuickQuid concedes that additional 
affordability checks and income  verification could've alleviated any chances of detriment to 
Mr Ms financial situation. It goes on to say that it relied on the information Mr M had given to 
it and his initial sound repayment  history  which led it to not think that there was a problem. 
But as I have explained in my provisional decision,  the general import  surrounding  the rules  
and regulations governing regulated lenders  such as QuickQuid is that it has to carry out a 
borrower focussed creditworthiness assessment. And the onus is very much on it as the 
potential lender to ensure that the checks carried out were  proportionate to the loan applied 
for before making a lending  decision. 
And as the lending  relationship lengthens  then I think that the proportionality of the checks  
expected may increase as well. The first upholds  are in relation to Loans  5 and 6 and I went  
into detail to explain why I think that these loans  within Mr Ms complaint are ones  where it 
was fair to uphold them.  My view remains the same in relation to Loans  5 to 10.
I note that QuickQuid has added nothing further  in relation to the award of £100 so I say no 
more on that and reiterate what I said in my provisional decision. 
putting things right
QuickQuid should  do as follows:
refund  any interest and charges  already  paid by Mr M in respect Loans 5 to 10;
apply 8% simple interest  per year to any interest  and charges refunded from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse payment information  about  the loans from Mr Ms credit file;
pay distress  and inconvenience payment of £100 to Mr M.
QuickQuid is entitled to set off any of the monies  arising from the redress against any 
monies Mr M may owe it, but to be clear this should  only be in respect of the principal  sum 
borrowed. Any unpaid  charges and interest would need to be removed first and any 
payments made to either  loan treated  as if Mr M had paid down the principal. 
The distress  and inconvenience payment is different and is not to be used for any set off. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest and it must give Mr M a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and direct that CashEuroNet  UK 
LLC trading as QuickQuid  do as I have directed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Rachael Williams
Ref: DRN45657293ombudsman
Ref: DRN45657294main parts  of the provisional decision dated 25 February 2019
background to the complaint continued
QuickQuid explained that as well as using the information  Mr M had provided (which it says was 
verified), it carried out some credit checks. These included his over-indebtedness  score and the 
number of new accounts  opened within  three months and any credit limit increases. It did not accept  
that Mr M showed signs of dependency on its loans. 
Per his expenditure information, he had disposable income ranging  from £1,240-£2,425 for the 
duration of each loan, whilst his highest repayment for the duration of a loan never equated to more  
than his disposable income. The repayments were affordable  based on our assessment of his income 
and expenditures.
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint and thought that QuickQuid should put things right 
for Mr M in relation to loans 5 to 10. 
QuickQuid disagreed. It had sent submissions  to explain  its process  for dealing with Mr Ms loan 
applications. These had included  a table to demonstrate what QuickQuid had gathered in relation to 
Mr Ms financial situation. It asserted:
in addition to performing these affordability assessments, we asked the customer to 
confirm their income and expenses and performed validation checks  to make sure the stated 
amounts were reliable .
since 1st March  2015, CashEuroNetUK  implemented affordability review, which  involved 
collecting and validating income and expense details  from customers, in line with the FCA 
Handbook. As such, we believe Mr [Ms] loans  issued post 2015 were  affordable.
And after receiving the adjudicators opinion it added to those  submissions. 
A second opinion was sent out with the same outcome  as before. After that QuickQuid said that it 
cannot agree that loans lent after March 2015 are ones  that should be upheld. QuickQuid has sent to 
us a thirteen page document which I will refer to as its key procedures document. 
Mr M has not responded to the adjudicators  two views  and so from this I understand that he seems 
content to accept the outcome. But QuickQuids non-acceptance means  that the complaint remains 
unresolved in relation to Loans 5 to 10. So it has been passed to me for a decision. And the loans 
which remain in dispute  are the ones I will be reviewing.  
Since this complaint was brought to this service, an issue around repayment of Loan 10 has arisen 
and I will be addressing this part as well. 
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory 
rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Before lending  money  to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand whether  
the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a sustainable manner without it 
adversely impacting on their financial  situation.  
A lender  should gather  enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on the 
lending. Although the guidance and rules  themselves didnt set out compulsory checks, they did list a 
number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that any 
checks needed  to be proportionate and had to take into account  a number of different things,  
including things such as how much was being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be 
repaid. 
Ref: DRN45657295the key procedures document  
QuickQuid is placing reliance on the key procedures document and is presenting it as a 
demonstration of what it did and used to assess its customers loan applications. QuickQuid seems to 
be saying that the natural  conclusion to draw  from this adherence to the procedure outlined in this 
document is that its assessments after March  2015 complied with the FCA regulations, and it follows 
that Mr Ms loan approvals  were satisfactorily carried out as well. 
This key procedures document is not specific to Mr Ms lending history and there are no details 
pertaining to him or his loan applications in particular. So when considering it I have had to apply  what 
QuickQuid has said it did within the context of Mr Ms circumstances.  
An example of a very specific paragraph which will be relevant to Mr Ms complaint is this: 
For income, CEU [QuickQuid] uses the Income Confidence Factor (icf) and Income 
Overstatement Factor  (supp_oisalarymax)  fields in the customers  Callcredit TAC report  to 
validate the reasonableness of the customers stated income. Should the customer fail this 
initial test, we use ONS data and the customers stated job type to estimate gross income and 
assess the reasonableness  of the customer stated income.  If the income  is deemed to be 
overstated, we send  the application to manual review and require bank statements or payslips 
for verification.
QuickQuid has also said 
When Mr [M] requested each of these loans  we validated his income using his credit reports  
ICF, in addition  to validating his reported expenses against credit report  data and ONS 
estimates.  
ICF I understand relates to the income confidence  factor  referred to in the key procedures 
document and ONS is a reference to the Office of National  Statistics.
In coming to a decision  on Mr Ms case, I have considered whether  QuickQuid completed reasonable  
and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ms applications to satisfy it that he would be able to 
repay the loans in a sustainable way. And if not, I have gone  on to look at whether those  checks 
would have shown that he would  have  been  able to do so. 
QuickQuids records
The records  QuickQuid had for Mr M during the lending  relationship have altered recently due to 
discrepancies and corrections  sent to me at my request. As I am reviewing the complaint from Loan 5 
onwards (July  2015) then my focus has been the details  held by QuickQuid from that point.
I have thought  carefully about a number  of aspects surrounding the records and account  note details 
QuickQuid had for Mr M in relation to his declared employment, his declared  income and application 
details. I will refer to my conclusions on these  as and when they may become  relevant  for each 
lending decision from July 2015. 
Loan 5
By Loan 5 in July 2015 QuickQuid had been lending to Mr M for ten months and his request for £250  
was much higher than the earlier payday loans. And during Loan 4 Mr M had asked for the loan to be 
deferred twice which I think suggested that he was having difficulty  repaying it. 
Ref: DRN45657296So I would have expected that QuickQuid carried  out checks for Loan 5 proportionate to this 
application and the lending relationship history  to date. I think that it ought to have carried  out a full 
financial review of Mr Ms situation. By this I mean that it ought  to have verified  Mr Ms income,  and 
obtained details on Mr Ms outgoings including regular financial commitments as well as regular 
expenditure. And it ought to have been aware  of any other short term loan (STL) liabilities Mr M had. 
I think  that these checks ought to have been carried out for each loan application going  forward.  
QuickQuid has explained  to me that Mr Ms records were updated in January 2015 to indicate that he 
was employed  at a particular company and he earned £1,600 net each month. This, it says would 
have been before Loan  2. And in July 2015 (Loan 5) Mr Ms income  figure remained the same and his 
expenditure details given to it reduced from £360 to £275.  QuickQuid carried out several credit bureau 
searches the results of which I have not seen.
I have seen the bank account statements  for one of Mr Ms bank accounts for 2015 and 2016. The 
other accounts are closed.  Mr M has assured  me that there was nothing  in those other accounts other 
than sometimes he transferred his car finance  sums  to it effectively to keep that sum contained in 
order to make those car finance payments.
An aspect which I find difficult to correlate  with what QuickQuid has described to me as its verification 
of income, is that Mr Ms bank statements show me that he was on a student loan and on current  
evidence it seems  to have  been his only official source of income at this stage. Family members 
regularly gave  him sums of money and sometimes these are large sums.  They have been explained  
to me that they were  contributions to assist him during his student days  and I can see those  sums 
crediting his account. 
Because of the discrepancies in what  I have  seen from both parties I have asked each to explain.  
I make  no definite finding in relation to some of these details, but what I do point to is that the general 
import surrounding the rules  and regulations governing  regulated lenders such  as QuickQuid is that it 
has to carry  out a borrower focussed creditworthiness assessment. And the onus is very much on it 
as the potential  lender to ensure that the checks carried  out were  proportionate to the loan applied for 
before making a lending decision. 
And so the checks QuickQuid says it carried out and the submissions contained in its key procedures  
document are difficult to assimilate  with what I think was the reality. Mr M does not appear to have 
been earning  £1,600 in July 2015 as I cannot see any salary crediting his bank  account. I think  that a 
full financial review  would have revealed that his income  was from student loan credits each quarter. 
And its clear that QuickQuids use of its own key procedures has not revealed  this fundamental 
element of Mr Ms financial situation.
So I have looked at Mr Ms financial situation for this period.  At the time Mr M applied for Loan 5, on 
the current  evidence, he had an income  of around £730 a month which was his apportioned student  
loan plus a small  amount of assistance from his family. His expenditure  would have left him with about 
£110 and the repayment due on Loan 5 was £322. So I do not think  that Mr M was able to afford this 
loan. 
I am planning  to uphold Mr Ms complaint in relation to Loan 5.
Loan 6 - The monthly income figure given to it by Mr M altered according to QuickQuids records in 
August 2015.  I note from email correspondence that Mr M and a QuickQuid  representative had a 
telephone conversation  on 17 August 2015 which was the date QuickQuid  recorded an increase in 
net monthly income to £2,700.  This was just before Loan 6. 
Ref: DRN45657297QuickQuid has provided me with screenshots of notes made of that conversation. It has told me that it 
cannot provide me with a call recording. The notes show that Mr M called QuickQuid  to ask for a 
higher pre-approval amount for a loan.  His employment information, pay dates  and details  of income  
were updated.  And the QuickQuid excel spreadsheet in relation to Mr Ms loan account shows me that 
on 17 August  2015 Mr Ms monthly  net income  was noted as being £2,700.  The notes  of the call go 
on to say that Mr M was seeking £1500 as a deposit on a car. Offered P2P. Customer declined. The 
notes say that an email was sent to Mr M. 
The email correspondence  I have includes an email dated  17 August 2015 to Mr M referring to the 
call and offering a 20% discount on his next loan. Soon  after that, on 20 August  2015,  Mr M applied 
for Loan 6. It was approved with three repayments over 85 days as follows: 
£110.00 due on 14 September, £132.00 due on 14 October and £682.00 due on 13 November 2015. 
I have seen the £550  (Loan 6) credit Mr Ms bank  account and then it debited the account a day or so 
later. The emails show me that Mr M requested that it be paid back on the same day it was paid over 
to him and so no interest seems to have been charged. 
Later submissions from QuickQuid to us explain  some calculations it says it would have  made when 
approving Loan 6. Using  Mr Ms reported income  with a loan term of 2.9 months QuickQuid  
demonstrates that Mr Ms Monthly  EDI (estimated disposable income) would  have been £5,297.  
The interest  cost on the loan would  have been £374 and the loan cost percent  of EDI would have 
been 2%. 
QuickQuid has explained  that it did other checks and according to its key procedures submissions it 
would have validated  his income: we asked the customer to confirm their income  and expenses  
and performed validation checks to make  sure the stated amounts were reliable.  
And as I can see from Mr Ms bank statements that Mr M was not receiving a monthly net income of 
£2,700 then these calculations for EDI figures do not appear  to make sense and I think  were  
predicated on incorrect information. 
I have gone on to consider the situation in the round. It is not ideal  that Mr M appears to have 
exaggerated his personal circumstances in order to obtain the loan. But I do not think that QuickQuid 
is unaware that customers may do this. I say this because one of the explanations to me from 
QuickQuid includes in our experience of responsible lending, most  consumers  will embellish their 
income details in order  to avoid an application being declined. So I think QuickQuid  is on notice that 
this approach by applicants is likely.  
The onus is on QuickQuid to carry out proper affordability assessments. That may have included the 
credit bureau  searches, but as I have not seen the results for those at that date then I cannot  know 
the data it received. 
Some of the rules and guidance governing QuickQuid as a regulated  lender are those  in the Financial 
Conduct Authority Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) and in respect of the need to double-
check information  disclosed by applicants then I refer to the following  provisions. At the time Mr M 
was QuickQuids  customer  CONC 5.3.1G(4) provided:
(a)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment  of the customers income  
and expenditure on a statement  of those matters made by the customer.
CONC 5.3.3G:
Under the procedures required by CONC 5.3.2R a firm should  take adequate  steps, insofar as it is 
reasonable and practicable to do so, to ensure  that information (including information supplied by the 
customer) on an application for credit relevant to a creditworthiness assessment is complete  and 
correct.
Ref: DRN45657298I do not think  that QuickQuid  carried  out the proportionate checks  it ought to have  done and if it had I 
think it would not have come  to an EDI figure of £5,297. This is a sum which, on the current  evidence, 
was so far removed from the reality  of Mr Ms situation that I do not see how QuickQuid can propose 
this to me as being a demonstration of proportionate checks on which to base its creditworthiness 
assessment. I reject it as such. From the information I have at the moment, Mr M received a student 
loan each quarter and some financial help from family. From the current evidence I have,  Mr M would 
not have been able to afford this loan. 
Even though  Mr M paid no interest  on the loan I am planning to uphold  it.
Loan 7
A few days after repaying Loan 6 Mr M applied for Loan  7 on 26 August 2015 for £300.
QuickQuid had recorded his net monthly income  as £2,700. And any applicant for a payday loan 
where his/her net monthly income had increased   apparently  by £1,100 since July 2015 was likely 
to alert a responsible lender  as to whether this needed to be verified.  The phone call referred to above 
in detail may have gone some way towards that. But I refer to the CONC provisions  above and I do 
not think  that QuickQuid went far enough.   
QuickQuid having had a telephone conversation with Mr M may have considered  that this was 
adequate. But in view of its submissions to us with its key procedures document in defence of this 
complaint then it has said it would  have  done  more.  If QuickQuid had done those  checks it has said it 
would have done, and carried out the full review of Mr Ms financial situation as I would have expected 
it to have done, then its likely these would have revealed that Mr Ms only official income was a 
student loan. 
By this time Mr M was using other  STL lenders  and two example payments are that on 19 and 21 
August 2015  he repaid £100  and £425 respectively  to another  STL lender.  In view of Mr Ms actual 
income and his regular outgoings on the current evidence, then Mr M would not have had enough  
money to repay  this loan. 
I am planning  to uphold Mr Ms complaint in relation to Loan 7.
Loans 8 onwards
After Loan 7 the amounts for the loan requests  increased.  Loan 8 in October  2015 comprised of an 
original principal figure plus two top-up  loan requests all of which were approved and amounted to 
£1,000 in principal sums lent.
The same  pattern repeated itself in January 2016 for Loan 9 which was a loan for £1,100.
I can see Mr Ms financial circumstances for Loans  8 to 10 were similar. On current evidence, he 
received a student loan every quarter which worked  out as an equivalent  monthly income of around 
£660. He was receiving support from family  of irregular  amounts and his normal living costs ranged 
from around £620 to £883 per month. The repayments for these QuickQuid loans would  not have 
been affordable to Mr M. 
And I can see from statements that Mr M took loans from another STL lender regularly in September, 
October and November 2015. 
I do not think  that the income Mr M was receiving from his family should be relied on as it was 
irregular and not a guaranteed income. When these sums are included into the calculations, still Mr M 
would not have had enough  to repay the QuickQuid loan amounts.
In my view,  these loans were unsustainable and checks of a proportionate nature would have 
revealed this.
Ref: DRN45657299The key procedures document  itself may be useful background material. But I do not agree with 
QuickQuids submissions  that what is contained in its key procedures document should be enough to 
lead to a conclusion that Mr Ms approved  loans and the decision making  process  behind them were 
responsible in Mr Ms case. So I apply  little weight to the key procedures document  when considering 
Mr Ms complaint. 
And within the fair and reasonable remit I have  as an ombudsman then my provisional  decision is 
that I am planning to uphold Mr Ms complaint in relation  to Loans 5 to 10 on affordability grounds. 
repayments for Loan 10
Loan 10 was a loan where Mr M had arranged  a repayment plan with QuickQuid.  This was requested 
by him on 5 May 2016. Initially it was due to be four pre-default payments of £317 over four months. 
The emails show me the arrangement was in fact £50 a month from 31 May 2016.  Mr M received this 
in an email from QuickQuid on 5 May 2016:
We have currently put your account  into hardship  status. While your account is in hardship status,  
all collections activities will be suspended.  
Mr M has informed us that since he brought his complaint to this service he has tried to make 
payments to reduce  the outstanding amount  (about £268). QuickQuid  has told him that he is not able 
to do that until the complaint  has been resolved. But in addition,  each month that Mr M has not paid 
towards the debt QuickQuid  has added adverse payment information to his credit file. 
Mr M has told me: 
I had will fully [sic] tried to clear the full balance  on many occasions as I seen they were reporting 
adverse information on my credit profile. The payments dont accrue interest, they report that each 
monthly payment is late on my report, and have done so since the beginning of making the complaint 
and denying  me to clear the balance. 
We asked  QuickQuid about  this and it wishes to put this right and has said that it will amend the credit 
file. But in view of the emails  I have  seen where  assurances were given  to Mr M relating to the debt 
and account management during the time he had hardship status and during the time his complaint 
has been with this service  (February 2018), then I think that some compensation is due to relieve the 
distress and the inconvenience Mr M has experienced. 
I am planning  to award £100. 
the extract  ends  here 
Ref: DRN4565729