K820x#14complaint
This complaint was initially brought to us by Mrs S, who has since  sadly  passed away. Mr S 
 Mrs Ss husband - has now taken  responsibility for bringing the complaint on behalf of Mrs 
Ss estate. 
Mr S says Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold his late wife, Mrs S, a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs S applied for a credit card in a branch  meeting  in 2001. The PPI was added  to her credit  
card at the same time.
Mrs S told us that she didnt agree to the PPI being  added, and that she didnt need  it.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr S disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. Ive 
taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Halifax should have  made it clear  to Mrs S the PPI was optional.  Mrs S said she couldnt 
remember any discussion about  PPI, or agreeing to buy it. Halifax has sent me a copy  of 
Mrs Ss signed credit  card application.  While I cant be sure what was said in the meeting, I 
can see the application form included a box to mark if Mrs S wanted PPI and another for 
card protection. The box to take out PPI  but not card protection   was marked with a 
printed X. From experience of how Halifax sold PPI in branch meetings at the time, I think it 
likely the box was marked and the form printed following a discussion Mrs S had with the 
adviser.
So I think Halifax probably made it clear to Mrs S that PPI was optional.  And that she signed 
the form to show she wanted  it with the card. I havent seen anything  to show  she was 
pressured into buying PPI.
From experience of how Halifax sold PPI in its branches at the time,  I think its likely it 
recommended the policy  to Mrs S. That meant  Halifax should have looked into whether the 
PPI was right for her in her circumstances.  I dont know if it did that. But, from what  the 
parties have said, I think the PPI was right for her in any case because:
Mrs S was eligible  for the PPI. And I dont think she was affected  by its main restrictions  
or exclusions which mightve made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim. 
For example, she didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions and she wasnt  self-
employed.
Ref: DRN40995852Mrs S had sick pay from her employer and some savings to help make her repayments if 
she wasnt working. The PPI benefits would have paid out on top of her sick pay and for 
up to 12 months for each accident  and sickness or unemployment claim. She says her 
family would have  helped her if she was in financial trouble but there was no guarantee it 
would have been able to when  she needed  help most. Overall, I think  the PPI was of use 
to her.
Theres nothing to show me Mrs S couldnt afford the PPI premiums. And if she no 
longer wanted  it she could  have  cancelled it at any time without losing out.
Halifax also should have  told Mrs S enough  about  the PPI for her to decide for herself if she 
wanted to buy it. And it should have done so in a clear, fair and not misleading  way. I dont 
know for sure how much  information Halifax gave Mrs S or how well it was explained.  But, 
for the same reasons  I think the PPI was right for her, I dont think better  information  would 
have stopped her from buying it.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs S paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs Ss estate back  some of the 
cost of the PPI Mrs S bought. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
If it hasnt  already, Halifax will make  arrangements to pay Mrs Ss estate now Ive issued my 
final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4099585