K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Premium Credit Limited  has registered a default on his credit file when  
he had already cancelled his policy.
background
Mr B says he cancelled his insurance  policy and the direct debit that was in place.  But 
Premium Credit registered a default  on his credit  file for a late payment. He says that 
mistake has meant hes been  unable  to obtain  credit  and would  like it removed. Mr B says 
he cancelled  the policy before the direct debit  was due. Mr B also says that he has reading 
and writing problems  and that Premium Credit  should  have  taken that into account.
Premium Credit says the direct debit failed  in August 2018 and was told the following day by 
Mr Bs bank  that he had cancelled  the direct debit.  It says it correctly reported a late payment 
not a default on Mr Bs credit file. Premium Credit says Mr B didnt tell it that the policy  had 
been cancelled  and it checked with the insurance company and it told it that Mr B had 
cancelled the policy after the direct debit  was due. It also says it was unaware of any 
difficulties Mr B has until some months after the direct debit failed.
Mr B brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt think Premium Credit  had made  a 
mistake or acted unfairly.  The investigator thought the credit  agreement had started in April 
2018 and that Mr B had a 14 day cooling off period to cancel it. The investigator thought Mr 
B had cancelled the direct debit but not the agreement and so Premium Credit  hadnt made 
a mistake by recording the late payment marker.
The investigator didnt  think Premium  Credit  was aware of any difficulties Mr B had about 
reading and writing and so couldnt make any reasonable adjustments.
Mr B doesnt  accept that view and would like the information removed from his credit file.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr B will be disappointed  by 
my decision.
Ive looked at the agreement between the parties and Im satisfied that Mr B had a 14 day 
cooling off period in which  he could have  cancelled it. Im satisfied the policy  wasnt 
cancelled within that time period and continued  into  August 2018 when Mr B says he told 
the insurance company he wanted to cancel it. I appreciate Mr B says he told the insurance 
company he wanted  to cancel it and that he then cancelled  the direct  debit  which was to be 
collected by Premium Credit. But Im satisfied that Premium Credit  were not part of that 
conversation between the insurance company and Mr B and Ive not seen any evidence  on 
its records that it was aware  of the cancellation. So I think  Premium Credit  acted fairly and 
correctly by attempting to take the August 2018  payment  by direct debit.
Im satisfied that as Premium Credit was unable to collect that payment by direct debit , it 
correctly reported  that as a late payment on Mr Bs credit file. Im also satisfied that Premium 
Credit has a duty to accurately report the position of a customers  account in these 
circumstances to the Credit Reference  Agencies. I should also make clear to Mr B that Ive 
not seen any evidence that a default was registered  on his credit  file.
Ref: DRN47559902I appreciate that Mr B has difficulties reading and writing and I accept in those circumstances 
a business should make reasonable adjustments. But Im satisfied that Premium Credit were 
unaware of those difficulties until some  months after August  2018 and so I dont think 
Premium Credit could have made any reasonable adjustments in those circumstances at 
that time.
Overall Im satisfied Premium Credit hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly. I also cant 
fairly hold it responsible for any discussions or agreements that may have taken place 
between Mr B and his insurance  company  as Premium Credits  involvement was only to 
collect the direct debit payments.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.  
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4755990