K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about the insurer of his car insurance policy  Aviva Insurance  Limited. 
He wants it to deal with a claim for two areas of damage to his car as one as he says it 
happened in the same incident. Aviva said the damage is separate and it will deal with it as 
two claims. 
background
Mr S reported an incident to Aviva in September 2016. He said he intended to deal with the 
third party directly and so Aviva didnt  investigate his claim.  In December 2016 Mr S gave a 
name of a witness to the incident.  He still didnt want to claim,  but he wanted Aviva  to 
investigate with a view to obtaining liability from the third party insurer (TPI). Aviva said it 
would investigate if Mr S wished to make  a claim under his policy. 
In April 2017 Mr S told Aviva he had a letter from the third party  admitting liability  and Aviva 
provided Mr S with details  of how to make a claim.  
In May 2018  Aviva  emailed Mr S and asked him if he still intended to make  a claim. Mr S 
replied. He was in dispute with the TPI as it only agreed to repair damage to the rear of his 
car. Mr S said the other driver also caused damage to the front of his car while  reversing. 
Aviva instructed an independent  engineer to inspect Mr Ss car. The engineer reported that 
in his opinion  the incident related damage  was only to the rear of Mr Ss car. 
Mr S complained to Aviva. But Aviva  didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said if Mr S wanted to 
make a claim for repairs  to both areas,  it would  record it as two separate claims. 
Mr S asked us to look at his complaint.  Our investigator thought that Aviva had acted reasonably.  
Mr S raised a number  of issues  which the investigator addressed. He said that Aviva  hadnt 
contacted the police or his witness. He said the other driver had absconded and couldnt be 
traced. He believed the other driver hadnt  provided  a statement as to the circumstances of 
the incident. So Mr S felt it wasnt fair that both his insurer and the TPI didnt  rely on his 
account as to what happened. He said the other  driver caused damage to the rear 
passenger side driving forward,  and then further damage to the front bumper when he 
reversed. 
The investigator thought it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on the reports  provided by both 
the third party  engineer  and the independent  engineer in reaching its decision. 
Mr S didnt agree. So the case has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide  liability. This is the role of the courts.  But we can look at whether an insurer  
has reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy.  
Ref: DRN49778652Mr S initially  told Aviva  he didnt want to make a claim against his policy.  When Mr S 
contacted Aviva in December 2016,  he gave the name of a witness which  it logged.  But at 
this stage Mr S said he still didnt want to make  a claim. 
I understand that the police investigated the identity  of the other driver and was able to 
provide Mr S with details  of the other drivers insurer,  which  was his employer. I cant  say 
that Avivas decision not to contact the police  for further information would have made  a 
difference. The TPI accepted liability for the incident.  The issue in dispute is whether the 
front of Mr Ss car was damaged in the incident  as well as the rear. 
Mr S says that he spoke  to the engineer who said Aviva hadnt  told him the type of vehicle 
involved. Mr S believes  this would have made a difference and the engineer suggested as 
much to him. Aviva  said it has no record  of this discussion and the engineer  didnt mention it. 
The third party insurer told Aviva that it wouldnt meet claim costs for repairs to the front of 
Mr Ss car. I think it was reasonable of Aviva to rely on the opinion  provided by two 
engineers who came to the same conclusion: that the incident related damage was to only 
the rear of Mr Ss car. That doesnt  mean that I or Aviva dont believe Mr S. But I think it 
reached its decision reasonably with all of the information available to it. There was 
insufficient evidence  for Aviva to defend and show that both areas of damage were  caused 
to Mr Ss car in the same incident. So I think Aviva acted reasonably. 
Mr S provided the name of a witness in December 2016. I havent  seen  anything  to show  
Aviva looked  to obtain further details to contact the witness.  Its possible the witness would 
have provided  a statement supporting Mr Ss account of how the incident happened. Its as 
possible that this line of enquiry wouldnt have made  a difference.  But ultimately I think  Aviva  
acted reasonably in placing more weight  on the reports provided by two engineers in this case. 
I understand Mr S will be disappointed with my decision. But from what  Ive seen, I think  
Aviva acted reasonably  in deciding to treat the two areas of damage separately. So I dont 
think it needs to do any more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4977865