K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Financial Insurance  Company  Limited ("FICL")  mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance ("PPI") policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card that Mrs A took out in 1996.  It 
was sold to her in store. 
Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility  for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mrs A didnt agree 
saying, in summary, that:
Shes never had to take long term sickness leave. She never required the PPI.
On the application, the tick to accept PPI is not in her writing  and was added after shed 
signed the form. She never requested the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs As complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs As complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs A says she didnt ask for the PPI. FICL  says it wouldve got her consent before adding  
cover to her account. Where theres  a dispute about what  happened,  I have to base my 
decision on what I think is most  likely  to have  happened - taking into account all the 
evidence thats  available.
Its not possible for me to know exactly what was said at the time this policy  was taken out. 
But looking  at a copy of Mrs As application form, I can see theres a section headed
"Protection for your payments & purchase cover" and the box has been ticked  to show that 
Mrs A wanted cover. Mrs A says she didnt  tick this box and I accept that thats  possible.  But 
the member of staff wouldve needed  Mrs As agreement to the PPI insurance  for the box to 
be ticked on her behalf.  Mrs A would then have had time to read through  the form, before 
signing to agree that the details were  correct. 
Mrs A says the box mustve been ticked after shed signed the form. Im not able to look into 
allegations of fraud.  If Mrs A believes FICL  acted  dishonestly and wants to pursue that issue,  
shell need to do so through the appropriate authorities.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs A so it didnt  have  to check if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs A got the information  she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
Ref: DRN44053242Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions or limits  on the PPI cover. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the cost of the PPI would have  put 
her off taking  out the cover.
Ive taken into account that Mrs A recalls she wouldve  received  six months  full pay followed 
by six months half pay from her employer if she couldnt work due to sickness  or an 
accident. But the PPI wouldve covered her until she returned  to work, so couldve been a 
useful benefit  in addition to her existing arrangements. It also covered her if she became 
unemployed. She said her family had some savings set aside for her and that her partner  
couldve met her repayments if necessary. But neither of these seem to me to be guaranteed  
sources of income,  so this doesnt change  my conclusion.
Mrs A says she never needed to take any lengthy time off work due to sickness. But all 
insurance is to protect against risks that might happen. Just because she didnt need  to 
make a claim on the policy, doesnt  mean  the policy wasnt appropriate for her.
Overall I dont think Mrs A has lost out by anything FICL might have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4405324