K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that the vehicle they acquired through a conditional sale agreement 
financed by Moneybarn  No.1  Limited  was not of satisfactory quality.  They want to reject the 
vehicle or for Moneybarn  to pay for repairs.  For ease of reading  Ill mostly refer to Mrs B.
background
Mrs B tells us she and Mr B acquired the vehicle in January 2018 from a dealer Ill refer to as 
V. Since then she says there have been numerous  faults including  a new clutch  being 
required and gear box failures. And more recently  she said an MOT inspection had revealed 
problems with the diesel particulate filter (DPF). She wants Moneybarn  to pay for all the 
necessary repairs.
Moneybarn told us that after Mrs B had raised several issues about the vehicle - including  
thick white smoke and a banging  sound  - it had arranged  for the vehicle  to be inspected  by  
a company Ill call S. It said this inspection  had concluded that any existing faults  were  due 
to wear and tear and that the vehicle had been  of satisfactory quality  at the point  of supply. 
But it said it had arranged  for a gearbox leak to be repaired as a gesture of goodwill. When 
Mrs B subsequently complained - about  brake  pads  and discs  needing replacing  and 
callipers seizing  - it had declined  to assist as there had been  no mention of these issues in 
the report by S.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said that V had 
replaced the faulty clutch in February.  And in April 2018, Moneybarn had waived a monthly 
payment and a late payment charge following a complaint by Mrs B about the quality of the 
vehicle. In June,  he saw that an independent inspection of the vehicle had been  carried out 
by S. This report had not found any problems with the engine and no smoke  from the 
exhaust. He said the report had concluded there  were no faults  which wouldve been present 
at the point of supply  and any other  issues were  wear  and tear related. He acknowledged  
Moneybarn had arranged  for an oil leak - which had been identified as likely  to have been 
related to the gearbox being  removed - to be repaired and had paid an additional £100  for 
the inconvenience suffered. He thought this was fair and reasonable.
Mrs B didnt agree with this outcome and wanted an ombudsman to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mrs B has experienced several problems  with this vehicle and I can understand 
why she feels upset  and frustrated at whats happened.
Under present  legislation,  as the supplier  of finance and the vehicle under a conditional sale 
agreement, Moneybarn is responsible for the vehicle being  of satisfactory quality at the time 
of supply. And whilst  I dont apply the law - directly - I do take it into account.
In trying to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell us, and we look to 
documentary and other evidence to help us reach a decision. This is in combination with our 
fair and reasonable remit. And where  evidence is unclear or contradictory - as some of it is 
here - I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say I decide 
what is the most likely  explanation  to account  for whats happened.
Ref: DRN43229242Its not in dispute  that the vehicle required  a clutch replacement shortly after supply. But as 
this was carried out by the dealer I dont think Moneybarn need do anything further about 
this. And I can see it later waived a monthly  payment  and a late payment fee to settle a 
complaint which  included damage  which had apparently occurred during the earlier repair. 
Again I think this was a fair resolution.
When Mrs B reported various  other issues Moneybarn arranged for the vehicle to be 
inspected by S - and Ive read the report which was prepared following this.
The vehicle was around eight years old when  acquired by Mrs B - and had reportedly 
covered 75,000 miles. Its more likely with older  vehicles that things will start to go wrong - 
and so the same degree of quality and reliability  cant be expected as might  be the case  with 
a newer vehicle.
The report  by S was conducted after the earlier repairs to the clutch  and when the vehicle 
had covered more  than 5,000 extra miles after being supplied to Mrs B. The report identified  
faults - in particular an oil leak - which given  the recent clutch replacement  was felt likely  to 
have been caused by the removal of the gearbox. Theres some suggestion that a 
subsequent inspection by the vehicle warrantors  found the oil leak was not related to the 
clutch replacement. But I dont think I need go into more  detail about  this as Moneybarn  
arranged for this issue to be repaired at no cost to Mrs B. 
Ss report did record other faults with the vehicle  and made various  recommendations 
including the need for the DPF to be cleaned and regenerated as part of routine 
maintenance. But it concluded  the vehicle had been of satisfactory quality when supplied 
and the current  issues were wear and tear related.
Im aware Mrs B has also reported that there have been further problems, with the brakes 
and discs needing replacing  and callipers seizing. And more recently she says she has been  
told by a garage which was conducting an MOT  inspection that the DPF will in future need 
replacing due to a leak.
Whilst I appreciate this is disappointing,  I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to say 
that Moneybarn  should be responsible for these matters.
Brake pads and discs  are usually considered a normal  serviceable  item - that is they 
routinely require replacing from time to time. And the report  by S made no mention of any 
fault being observed during the road test in relation to these items. Its also unlikely the 
vehicle could have  covered over 5,000  miles since supply with serious brake faults.  
S also recommended the DPF be cleaned as part of routine maintenance. Again its highly 
improbable that if this component had been  faulty from the outset the vehicle could have 
covered such mileage.
Its not in doubt  that this vehicle has experienced faults. And where those faults were 
probably not down  to wear and tear - including  the clutch replacement  and oil leak - these 
have been repaired  at no cost to Mrs B. And compensation  for inconvenience  has been  paid.
But Moneybarn is not responsible for the general  costs of maintenance and replacing items 
which become faulty and/or require replacement  due to wear and tear. So Im not going to 
ask Moneybarn to do anything else in relation to this complaint.
Ref: DRN43229243Whilst I know it will disappoint Mr and Mrs B Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 July 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4322924