K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains that Tesco Personal Finance  Plc (Tesco) rejected  her claim she made 
under section 75 Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (section 75). 
background
In November 2017 Ms G bought a double-glazed window and door set from A (the 
supplier). She paid £3,100 in total, paying  £102 on her Tesco  credit card. 
Three days after the goods were delivered, Ms G notified A that the patio door had a crack 
on its frame. It concluded  the door had either been dropped or had taken  a knock which 
caused it to crack. It offered to arrange  for the door to be repaired at an additional cost.
Ms G agreed to pay A £200  for the repair,  collection and redelivery of the door as she said 
she desperately needed  to get it sorted.  However  once the door was returned to A it said it 
couldnt be repaired and needed replacing at a further cost of £242  so over £400  in total.
Ms G believed the door was faulty. She contacted Tesco to make a section 75 claim. Tesco 
turned the claim down.  It said that Ms G signed at the point of delivery to confirm  that all 
products received are in good condition and it wouldve been  her responsibility to inspect 
the goods at the time. It said it seemed most likely the door was damaged while  it was being  
fitted.
Our investigator thought Ms Gs complaint should be upheld. She said it was more likely the 
door was faulty  than damaged during delivery or fitting. She asked Tesco  to pay the cost of a 
replacement door, plus a portion of the £200  repair charge that A hadnt refunded to Ms G. 
Tesco disagreed  with the investigator.  It said in summary:
Ms G spent  over £3,000 on the goods so it wasnt unreasonable to expect her to 
check they were in good condition before signing  to confirm  this. 
The fact Ms G signed the delivery  note shows there was nothing wrong with the door 
when it was supplied  and it must  have been damaged during  fitting.    
Just because the fitter didnt damage any of the other windows it fitted doesnt mean 
it didnt damage the door (as had been suggested  by the investigator).
The complaint was then referred  to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act can make  the provider of 
credit equally  liable  with a supplier of services  where  the supplier is paid with credit  and 
there is a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.  The Consumer Rights Act 
2015 implied a term into Ms Gs contract  with A that goods supplied would be of satisfactory 
quality. So if they were not, Tesco  can be liable  for this breach of contract  and Ms G can 
bring a complaint to us if shes not happy  with the way it handles her section 75 claim. 
Ref: DRN48913312What is satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable  person would consider satisfactory  
and includes  things  such as appearance  and finish, freedom from minor defects and 
durability. 
The goods  Ms G purchased were brand new so a reasonable person would not expect  there 
to be any damage,  faults or minor defects with them. Its clear from the evidence that the 
patio door is damaged and a large crack  can clearly  be seen in one of the corner  joins.  
Whats disputed is whether the door was faulty  or damaged at the point it was supplied or 
whether the damage was caused  after this. 
Tesco said the fact Ms G signed a delivery  note to say the goods were in good condition 
shows that they must have been  fault and damage free at the point of delivery. I disagree. 
Although Ms G signed the delivery note, its more reasonable to conclude she did this simply  
to confirm receipt of the goods. 
I say this because  there  were a great number of items delivered to Ms G, many of them  very 
large. And she says the goods  were  covered in a plastic film and secured in their boxes with 
foam - as is common with these kinds of goods.  So, it would have been difficult  to check  
them all. Furthermore,  unwrapping all of the goods and removing the plastic  film could have 
increased the chance of damage during further  transit within the house  or storage. 
I dont think it would  have  been reasonable to expect Ms G to remove all the packaging and 
film to check  the goods were in good  condition in the limited  space  of time the delivery  driver  
would have been with her. And Ms G has said the crack in the door only became noticeable 
once the door was fitted and hung  so it seems unlikely she would have  noticed  this on a brief 
inspection in any event.  
Ms G said it was her fitter that noticed the damage to the door once hed installed it in its 
frame. She said the door was stored in its packaging  for one day before this in an area 
where there  was no other building work taking place. And when the goods were delivered  
Ms G said it was the suppliers delivery driver that unloaded the goods and brought them into 
her property. Ive found Ms Gs testimony  to be credible and consistent. I find it unlikely from 
all of this that the door was damaged by Ms G at any point between delivery and fitting. 
Ms G said the door sits in an outer  frame  so the fitting process  didnt require a huge  amount 
of work on the door itself.  She said her partner was present for the fitting  and didnt see the 
door get hit or dropped. And she said while the glass did have to be tapped into the door, a 
hammer was not required for this and the beading  simply clicked  in. She said the crack in 
the door only became noticeable to the fitter once the door was hung.
The crack in the door spreads from a join in the corner of the plastic frame upwards. And 
while its possible it could have been  caused by dropping or hitting the door,  Ive found 
Ms Gs description of how the door was handled  during fitting  to be plausible.  So I think its 
unlikely this happened. Most telling here I find is the development of a further  hairline crack 
on the opposite  corner of the door  which Ms G has evidenced with pictures. I think  this is 
evidence the door wasnt  particularly well made. And while  the work carried out to fit the door 
may have  exacerbated the problem,  I think it was most likely faulty or damaged  at the point it 
was supplied and more susceptible to cracking  once pressure from fitting was applied  to it. 
This leads  me to conclude that the door was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied 
because it was either not free from minor defects or not sufficiently durable. I find therefore  
that A did breach the contract it had with Ms G. 
Ref: DRN48913313A confirmed  during the course  of events that it was not possible to fix the door and a 
replacement would be required. So, in the circumstances, to put things right,  I find it would 
be fair that Tesco pays for the cost of replacement door and any related fitting  costs  should 
Ms G incur  them  seeing as Ms G will be out of pocket if she has to pay to have the door 
fitted again. Tesco may if it wishes require Ms G to provide  a maximum of three quotes for 
the new door and fitting first. Tesco should also make sure the existing patio door is 
removed at no cost to Ms G. 
A kept £80 of the £200 Ms G paid it to repair the door. It said this was for delivery  charges. 
Seeing as Ive found A was in breach of its contract  with Ms G in supplying goods  that were  
not of satisfactory  quality,  it wasnt fair to charge  her for these delivery costs. I find these are 
consequential losses that result from the breach of contract. So, Tesco  should pay Ms G the 
£80 plus interest. 
I recognise that Ms G was prepared to pay to have  the doors repaired at first. However from 
the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied she made  it clear from early on that she considered  the 
problem to be a manufacturing defect and that she only agreed  to pay for the repair because 
she desperately wanted  the door fixed.  
Ms G said she never received the energy performance certificate  for the windows and doors 
from A and had to source someone independent to provide  this. Having discussed this with 
Ms Gs representative however she is not seeking the cost of this now. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my final decision is that I uphold  Ms Gs complaint. To 
put things right Tesco Personal Finance Plc must:
remove the existing  patio door at no cost to Ms G. 
arrange and pay for the supply, delivery and fitting of a replacement patio door to    
Ms G.
pay Ms G £80 plus 8% simple interest per year from the date she paid it until the date 
of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Michael Ball
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4891331