K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs K bought the policy  in 2006 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs K for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £1,050 a month towards  Mr and 
Mrs Ks mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. The benefit was split between 
Mr and Mrs K  so it would pay £735  if Mr K made a claim and £315  if Mrs K made a claim. 
At the time,  it cost £49.09 a month, although it was free for the first three  months. 
At the time,  Mr K was employed as an engineer. He has told us he was entitled to sick pay, 
redundancy pay and death  in service cover  though  his employer. Mr K has said he was in 
good health at the time of the sale. 
Mrs K was employed as a customer service advisor.  She has told us she was also entitled to 
sick pay, redundancy pay and death  in service cover though her employer. Mrs K has said 
she was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Santander has sent us its records to show that the mortgage account started  in 2006. 
Mr and Mrs Ks representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ks representative  says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs K 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Ks representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr and Mrs K about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs K 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN41963532The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs K received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs K disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ks. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2006 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
Ref: DRN41963533In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Santander, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs K with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs K sufficient,  appropriate  and timely information  
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
Ref: DRN41963534including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs K, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs K 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs K 
and Santander,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs K know they had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Ive seen a copy  of the demands and needs  document Santander produced  in the meeting 
where Mr and Mrs K applied for the PPI. PPI was recommended in this meeting and the 
advisor made a note that Mr and Mrs K had agreed to the recommendation. Mr and Mrs K 
have also recently said they did agree to it. 
Ive also seen a copy of their mortgage  offer document  that was sent to them  before the PPI 
started. In it, it explicitly says Mr and Mrs K are under no obligation to take out any insurance 
through Santander (called Abbey at the time). It goes on to explain that they do have to have 
buildings insurance  but again  this doesnt  have  to be with Santander. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs K knew  the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
Santander says it provided advice during the meeting at which  it sold PPI, but Mr and Mrs K 
dont agree. Looking at what  happened  when Santander sold Mr and Mrs K the PPI, Im 
persuaded that it provided advice. I say this because I can see a demands  and needs  
document was produced in the meeting where  the advisor asked M and Mrs K a series of 
questions to assess suitability and then made a tailored recommendation for them to take 
the PPI. 
This means  Santander  had to advise Mr and Mrs K with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Santander took some steps  to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs K. The adviser  had information about some of Mr and 
Mrs Ks financial circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although a demands 
and needs statement was completed to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs K had a need 
for the policy  by asking questions about  their wider circumstances such as any health 
issues and existing means  I dont think  it did enough to ensure  the PPI was suitable. I cant 
Ref: DRN41963535for example see that the advisor sought details of any employee benefits Mr and Mrs K 
mightve had to help them  meet their mortgage  repayments. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs K given their 
circumstances. So, Im not persuaded Santander  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs K, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs K met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs K had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ks ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if Mr 
and Mrs K were not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the 
redundancy and sick pay benefits  they say they would have been  entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs K. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs K. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Ks employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  And they havent told us about any pre-
existing medical conditions that could  affect  their ability to claim. There were  also no 
additional restrictions on cover  for mental health  or back  problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any other  
work condition, the requirement that Mr and Mrs K be disabled  or unemployed for 28 
days before they could make a claim and the fact the policy  would only pay benefits 
for a maximum of 12 months for each  claim), the policy  still provided  valuable cover 
given:
Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances, including their employers sickness  and 
redundancy provisions (which  they might expect to provide an income during 
the policys 28-day  qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, 
which mean the policy could play an important role after those provisions 
were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs K be unable  to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs K 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Santander was recommending  to them and make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs K were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr and Mrs K were  unable to work through accident,  sickness  or unemployment)  and of the 
Ref: DRN41963536approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs K 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and how much 
the premium might  be. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs K agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs K Im not persuaded 
Santander did enough to present information about the policy  it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs K all of 
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ks representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Ks. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ks representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs K about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ks representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs K have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs K? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs K suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs K. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr 
and Mrs K suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs K would have still taken  out the policy, had Santander  done  things properly.  
Ref: DRN41963537While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs K, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs K have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Santander had explained  things 
properly, Mr and Mrs K would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs K say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs K had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Santander advised them  that there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event 
they were unable to work because of accident, sickness  and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs K knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Santander told them the exact  premium  at the 
point Mr and Mrs K applied for the policy. Having said that, I can see they were sent a 
welcome letter with an insurance schedule attached shortly after the PPI was set up  this 
set out the cost of the PPI which was free for three months. Had the cost been  largely  
different to what they been told during the sale, I wouldve expected  them to have 
questioned this on receipt of it  especially since they hadnt yet paid a premium. They also 
paid for the policy for a number of years, so if the costs were significantly  at odds with their 
expectations at the point  of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with Santander at 
the time,  or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs K would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Mr and Mrs K would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr and 
Mrs Ks expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs K thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
Ref: DRN41963538The policy excluded claims relating to any condition, injury, illness,  disease, sickness  
or related condition  and/or associated  symptoms, whether diagnosed or not which  Mr 
and Mrs K knew about, or should reasonably have known  about,  at the start date, or 
which they had seen or arranged to see a doctor about,  during the 12 months 
immediately before the start date. Claims  are only excluded if those pre-existing 
medical conditions  persist or return during  the first 12 months from the start date of 
the insurance.
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs K werent permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs K be 
unable to do their own jobs or any paid work  which they may reasonably become  
qualified for, in view of their training, education  and ability.  
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs K pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs K from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr and Mrs K wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr and 
Mrs K didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions and were  in permanent employment.  
So, I still think they had some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs K would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs K had known they could  only claim for disability if they were not only unable to 
do their job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers  view they might reasonably 
be qualified  for, it might  have played  into their thinking about what  they would do. And I 
accept it may have given  them pause  for thought  although given Mr and Mrs Ks 
circumstances on balance, I still think they would have been interested in taking out the 
cover.
Santander may not have told Mr and Mrs K that any claim  they made would be limited  to a 
12-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for 
 but the policy paid out on top of their full sick pay and their statutory redundancy 
entitlement was likely significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs K would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs K be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
Ref: DRN41963539could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Mr and Mrs Ks sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs K would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr and Mrs K were made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs K would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ks representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs K would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ks 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs K found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs K believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs K in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mr and Mrs K compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN419635310Im also aware that Mr and Mrs K think Santander  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Santanders  statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mr and 
Mrs K, in the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 2006  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ks representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Santander negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs K and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Santander had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs K in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 January 2021.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4196353