K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands)  has 
unfairly declined  a claim she made on her pet insurance policy.
background
Mrs W took out pet insurance  for her dog in August 2017 with Red Sands.  Mrs  Ws dog was 
taken to a vet with an ear problem around  May 2018. She contacted Red Sands around this 
time to make  a claim for veterinary costs,  and made two further  claims for the same  issue in 
June 2018.
Red Sands  investigated the claims.  It said the policy would not cover any claim or costs 
related to a pre-existing condition  before the policy started,  or within  14 days  of the 
commencement date. It said it had looked at the dogs clinical history, and this showed signs 
the condition had been identified in October 2015.
Red Sands  also said the dog had been  treated for an ear condition  at the start of September 
2017, a few days after the policy was taken, and within the 14 day exclusion period. So it 
said it wouldnt cover  these claims  as a result. Mrs W spoke to her vet, who said the recent 
condition was a bacterial  ear infection which hadnt  been diagnosed before.
Red Sands  reviewed this and said while  the vet felt the previous ear problems are unrelated  
to the current diagnosis, no previous testing had been undertaken in 2015 to determine any 
possible underlying  causes. And it said it wasnt  satisfied the previous ear problems were  
being caused by another,  unrelated pathological problem.
Mrs W brought her complaint to our service  and one of our investigators looked into what  
had happened. Our investigator said the comments given by Mrs Ws vet showed  the current 
condition wasnt related to anything it had previously. And looking  at the clinical notes there 
was nothing to suggest the conditions were linked.
So she upheld the complaint, saying  the vets comments were more  persuasive in 
demonstrating the conditions were not linked and so there wasnt  a pre-existing condition. 
And as a result, Red Sands should reconsider the claim  without  applying  the exclusion 
related to pre-existing conditions.
Red Sands  replied to say when Mrs W visited the vets just after the policy  was taken; the 
dog was given  ear drops for otitis externa which is a bacterial infection.  And as Red Sands 
disagreed, the case was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 December 2018 explaining why I intended to not uphold 
the complaint.  Ive summarised my reasons  below:
I said Mrs Ws policy excludes pre-existing medical conditions.  And this meant  if 
Mrs Ws dog showed any sign or symptom of the condition  claimed  for prior to the 
date she took the policy,  Red Sands wouldnt cover  it.
Mrs Ws vet had said that the condition the dog suffered from hadnt been diagnosed 
before. But I said this policy exclusion didnt require a diagnosis,  only a symptom or 
sign of that condition. And looking  at the notes  I saw Mrs Ws dog had previously 
shown symptoms including  scratching  and shaking ears in 2015  leading  to ear 
Ref: DRN41810622drops being given at the time. The vet recommended  an otoscope examination  but 
this didnt take place so it was difficult to know the cause of these problems.
And I said notes from 2017  suggested the dog was scratching her left ear, and it was 
reddish  and full of wax.
On balance I was persuaded that Red Sands had fairly  construed these previous 
instances as signs or symptoms related  to the condition Mrs W claimed  for. And so I 
thought Red Sands  had reasonably declined the claim.
I explained I would consider any further evidence before issuing my final decision. 
Red Sands  didnt provide me with anything else to consider. Mrs W disagreed  and said she 
didnt make a claim when her dog first had wax in her ears. And she said Red Sands unfairly 
told her it was declining the claim after the treatment was finished.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs W feels strongly about  this claim and Im sympathetic to her situation. But 
as Ive outlined,  I have to consider whether her dog showed any sign or symptom  of the later 
condition  not whether a sign or symptom was previously claimed for or formally  diagnosed.
Red Sands  said there was a link between the dogs history and the condition in question. 
And as Ive outlined, Im satisfied Red Sands reached this conclusion reasonably  based on 
the evidence and within the terms of the policy. I understand Mrs W incurred costs prior to 
being told the claim was declined,  but this wouldnt change my mind, nor have I seen 
anything to suggest it didnt handle the claim promptly. 
So I havent been persuaded to change my mind from my provisional decision. And I think  
Red Sands decision  to decline the claim was fair in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4181062