K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained about the way in which Bradford & Bingley Plc (referred  to 
here as B&B) has administered their mortgage account since June 2017. They  want B&B to 
provide a statement of account, an explanation  of why B&B is saying the account is in 
arrears and compensation. They  also wants the Financial Ombudsman  Service  to take 
punitive action  against B&B. Mr S has dealt  with the complaint  on behalf of both parties.
background
Mr S and Mrs S have an interest-only mortgage  with B&B.  The mortgage term has now 
expired, but it has been extended  indefinitely by B&B. 
Mr S has had a number of concerns about the way in which  B&B has dealt with the account. 
On 20 June 2017 Mr S discussed the issue with B&B and reached an agreement about  what 
was outstanding on the mortgage account.  Immediately after the call Mr B wrote  to B&B to 
confirm the position, and asked B&B to provide reciprocal confirmation. B&B failed to 
respond.
Since then,  although  Mr S says hes complied with the agreement reached  with B&B, he has 
continued to receive  letters saying he is in arrears. Hes raised  this with B&B on a number  of 
occasions, but has had no substantive response to his concerns.
In the absence of any response  from B&B, Mr S brought his complaint to us. An investigator 
asked B&B to respond to the complaint, but it failed to do so. The investigator looked at what  
Mr S had said about what had happened. Based on the evidence provided by Mr S, and in 
the absence of any response from B&B,  the investigator upheld the complaint.
The investigator asked  B&B to provide Mr and Mrs S with a copy  of account statements from 
June 2017. If these figures  were different from those agreed in June  2017,  B&B needed to 
explain why this is the case.  B&B also needed to provide an explanation of how it arrived at 
what it says are arrears on the account.
The investigator also thought B&B should  pay compensation of £500 for the trouble and 
upset caused  to Mr and Mrs S. 
B&B didnt respond to the investigator, despite  reminders. In the circumstances, the case  
has now been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is regrettable that B&B has failed to respond  either  to Mr Ss numerous complaints about 
this matter or to the Financial Ombudsman Services legitimate and reasonable requests for 
its response to the complaint once it was escalated to us. This conduct is unacceptable  and 
has caused Mr S significant distress  and inconvenience.
As the investigator  explained, the Financial Ombudsman Service has no power to fine, 
punish or regulate B&B. Nor do we award punitive  damages. So although I acknowledge Mr 
Ss strength of feeling,  I have  no power to take action against B&B for its transgressions.
Ref: DRN43439832Having reviewed the available information, Im satisfied Mr S has made reasonable requests 
of B&B,  over a considerable period of time, asking it to provide  him with an explanation for 
claiming he is in arrears. I can find no legitimate reason why B&B would  have ignored  his 
requests.
In the circumstances, I uphold this complaint.
The investigator recommended  an award  of compensation of £500  to be paid to Mr S. I think  
this is fair in all the circumstances.
my decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement I require Bradford & 
Bingley Plc to do the following, within 28 days of receiving acceptance  of this final decision:
provide Mr and Mrs S with a statement of account from June 2017 to date;
if those figures are different from those agreed with Mr S in June 2017, provide an 
explanation for this;
give an explanation  of why it is alleging there are arrears  on the account;
pay £500 compensation.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 February  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4343983