K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that Lifes Great Limited mis-sold him an unemployment insurance 
policy.
background
In 2015, Lifes  Great sold Mr F an insurance  policy providing accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. In respect of unemployment,  the policy would pay a monthly  benefit  of 
£4,000 for up to twelve months in the event that Mr F was made involuntarily unemployed. 
The payment of benefit was subject to a waiting period of six months.
In October  2017, Mr F was made  unemployed. His employment contract entitled him to six 
months notice. As part of his settlement, his employer therefore  paid him the amount  he 
would have received in salary between then and the end of April 2018.
Mr F made a claim under his policy. The insurer explained that, under the terms of the 
policy, Mr Fs unemployment would not begin  after the period for which he had received 
payment in lieu of notice,  meaning 1 May 2018.  It said he would then have to undergo the 
six month waiting period,  meaning that he would become eligible for benefit  on 1 November  
2018. The insurer also confirmed  that if Mr F regained employment then benefit payments 
would stop completely, regardless of whether his new salary was less than the amount he 
was receiving in benefit.
Mr F complained to Lifes Great. He said it hadnt  made clear  that he would have to wait a 
further six months, on top of the six months  payment hed received  in lieu of notice, before 
he could start receiving benefit  under  the policy. He further said it hadnt made clear that his 
benefit payments  would stop completely in the event that he found  another job during the 
claim period; he assumed  that if his new salary  was less than the amount hed been 
receiving in benefit, the insurer would  continue to pay the difference.
Lifes Great  didnt uphold the complaint. It said the policy had been sold on a non-advised  
basis. It was satisfied it had sent the policy document to Mr F before he agreed  to take out 
the policy and that this accurately outlined the terms under  which  benefit would be paid. It 
pointed out that Mr F had been able to cancel the policy at any time if hed felt it was 
unsuitable.
Mr F was unhappy at Lifes Greats response. He referred his complaint to us.   
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In his opinion,  Lifes  
Great had sold the policy in an appropriate way.
Mr F didnt  accept the investigators findings.  He said he drew Lifes  Greats attention to the 
fact he had a six month notice period  in his employment contract and that he was choosing 
the six month waiting  period because he wanted  the benefit  payments to start when his 
payment in lieu had expired. He said Lifes Great should therefore have advised  him at this 
point that his understanding was incorrect and that he should choose a policy with no waiting 
period. He further said that it failed to highlight that partial benefit wasnt payable  under the 
policy if he were to obtain employment  at a lower salary, which  he considered  to be unusual.  
He additionally pointed out that nowhere  in the policy did it actually state that partial benefit 
would not be paid.
Ref: DRN48997392In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Lifes Great  has explained  that the policy was sold on a non-advised basis. This means it 
wasnt required to ensure the policy  was suitable for him. Mr F has questioned this but I can 
see no evidence that Lifes  Great conducted a fact find into his circumstances or 
recommended a particular policy. On the contrary, it appears that Mr F told it what  kind of 
cover he wanted and it provided options.  However, even in a non-advised sale, Lifes Great  
was obliged to provide  sufficient information  to enable Mr F to make an informed decision as 
to whether to take out the policy.
The evidence shows that Lifes  Great  provided  a quote for the accident, sickness  and 
unemployment policy, as well as details of a couple of unemployment only policies. It also 
provided the policy document of the accident,  sickness and unemployment policy,  and Mr F 
eventually decided to take this out.
The policy document clearly explains that if payment is made  in lieu of notice, unemployment  
is not deemed to start until the notice period has ended  and the waiting period will then 
begin. I dont find this unusual. I note that the two unemployment only policies which Lifes 
Great drew  to Mr Fs attention both contained a similar clause and I would expect most, if not 
all, other  policies to do so. Accordingly,  I dont consider  that Lifes  Great  needed to bring this 
to Mr Fs specific attention.
The policy document also clearly explains that benefit payments  stop when the policyholder  
gets a new job. Again, this isnt unusual and I am unaware of any such policy which  operates 
differently. Accordingly,  I dont consider  that Lifes Great needed to bring this to Mr Fs 
specific attention.
Ive seen no evidence  to support Mr Fs testimony that he told Lifes  Great he understood the 
six month waiting period  to mean  he would  start receiving benefit immediately that his six 
months notice period  ended, nor have I seen any evidence to suggest that Lifes  Great 
misled him over this point. Indeed, it would seem strange for Mr F to choose a six month  
waiting period on this basis  given that he couldnt be sure that in the event of unemployment 
he would  necessarily be paid six months  salary  in lieu of notice.
Mr F has also suggested that the policy wording is open to interpretation and he should 
therefore be paid partial benefit  after obtaining a new job. I see that Mr F has already raised  
this point with the insurer.  It has pointed to the policy terms which,  as I have explained 
above, clearly explain  that benefit  payments stop when the policyholder gets a new job and 
contain nothing  to indicate that partial benefit might be payable. Nonetheless, if Mr F wants 
to pursue this point  further, he needs to refer it back to this service  as a new complaint 
against the insurer.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN48997393Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4899739