K820x#14complaint
Ms A says MBNA Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000.  The policy was added  to 
Ms As credit  card account following a phone  call shortly after the card had been set up.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Ms A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms As case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms As complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Ms As credit card application form. It included a section about PPI, 
with equally clear  options to take or decline the cover. At that stage,  Ms A declined  the 
cover. MBNAs records show  that PPI was added to her account  following a phone call 
three weeks after Ms A signed the application  form.
Ms As account had initially  been set up without  PPI, and I think  it was clear from the way 
the credit  card application form was set out that PPI was optional.  Whats more, the 
telephone sales  script  in use at the time made it clear that it was up to the consumer to 
decide whether  or not they wished to take PPI, and required MBNAs representative to 
obtain the consumers consent before adding it. So taking everything into account, Im 
satisfied that MBNA made Ms A aware that PPI was optional, and that she chose to take 
it.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Ms A, so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. But it should have  given her clear enough  information to enable  her to decide  if the 
policy was right for her.
Its possible  the information MBNA  gave Ms A about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  
have been. I acknowledge that Ms As told us shed  have  been  entitled to some  pay from 
her employer if she was off sick. But shes not sure how much, and she hasnt been able 
to provide us with strong enough  evidence of her sick pay entitlement  for me to be able 
to rely on. And based on what shes told us, Ms A doesnt appear to have had significant  
other means to make her credit card repayments  if she was off sick, or if she lost her job. 
I acknowledge that she says her partner at the time could have made her credit card 
repayments if necessary. But circumstances can change,  and I cant  be sure that Ms As 
partner would have been in a positon to help if the need had arisen.
Ref: DRN43744782The PPI would have  paid out for up to 12 months per successful unemployment claim. 
And it would  have paid out until Ms A returned to work (or until the balance was paid off, 
if earlier) if shed  been off sick. So I think she could have  benefitted from having the 
policy.
It doesnt look as if Ms A was affected  by any of the main things the policy  didnt cover 
for example  existing  medical conditions or unusual employment situations. So I dont 
think having more  information about  the policys main exclusions would have made any 
difference to her decision to take out the PPI.
I dont think its likely  that MBNA properly explained the policy  cost,  or what Ms A might  
receive if she made a claim. MBNA might have made Ms A aware  that shed be charged  
68p per £100 of her statement  balance. But this probably wouldnt have helped her to 
understand how much this might actually work out costing each month. I also accept that 
it might  not have been clear to Ms A that the PPI premium  would be added  to her credit 
card balance,  and that she could be charged  interest on it. 
But Im satisfied that Ms A chose to take out the policy knowing she didnt have to  so 
she seems to have wanted  it, and the policy was apparently  affordable for her. So I think 
it unlikely shed  have  made a different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance I think shed still have taken out the policy.
This means  that MBNA doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms A.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms A because:
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms A about that. Because MBNA  didnt  tell Ms A, that 
was unfair.
To put that right,  MBNA has paid back the amount of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does  not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Ms A.
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Ms A any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4374478