K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two payment protection insurance policies (PPI). Mr and Mrs B took 
out a mortgage in 1983. PPI was taken out at the same time as two further  advances  in 
January 1994  and November 2008.  Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold 
them the PPI. 
The PPI policy taken  out in November 2008  was part of a package  of insurance cover  called  
Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). TMPP can be split into different levels of cover. 
Typically, PPI, life cover  and critical  illness  cover. In this decision Ive only considered the 
sale of the PPI element. 
Both PPI policies covered Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage  in the event of Mr B being unable to 
work due to accident, sickness and/or  unemployment.
background 
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 22 January 2019, which is attached  and forms 
part of my final decision.
Since issuing my provisional  decision, Mr and Mrs Bs representative and Bank of Scotland  
have confirmed that they have received my provisional decision.  Neither  Mr and Mrs B nor 
the Business has submitted any further  material comments or evidence for me to consider. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We have set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and I have taken this into account in 
deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
As neither the Business nor Mr and Mrs B has presented anything materially  new for me to 
consider, I dont see any reason to go behind my findings in my provisional decision. So, Im 
not going to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything Mr 
and Mrs B paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr and Mrs B back some  of the 
cost of the PPI. I dont  think it needs  to do anything  more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Marie Lewiecki
ombudsman
Ref: DRN48598352copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  two payment protection insurance policies  (PPI). Mr and Mrs B took out a 
mortgage in 1983. PPI was taken out at the same time as two further advances  in January  1994 and 
November 2008. Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  them  the PPI. 
The PPI policy taken out in November 2008 was part of a package of insurance cover called Total  
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). TMPP can be split into different levels of cover. Typically, PPI, life 
cover and critical illness cover. In this decision  Ive only considered the sale of the PPI element. 
Both PPI policies covered  Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage in the event of Mr B being  unable to work due to 
accident, sickness and/or  unemployment.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policies  werent mis-sold because:
Whilst I do not doubt what Mr and Mrs B have told us is their honest  and best recollections  of 
what took place,  I do not think their account is sufficiently detailed  or strong.  It seems most likely  
to me that Mr and Mrs B may no longer  have  a detailed recollection  of the sale in 1994 or 2008. 
This is understandable. This sale occurred  several years  ago.
Although, given the passage of time, Ive not been provided with all documentation  from the time 
of sales, Ive not seen any evidence  to make me think Mr B was ineligible for the policies. 
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows BoS didnt make Mr and Mrs B aware  that they were  
taking the PPI or that it was optional. Whilst I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs B may not have been 
given a fair choice, I havent seen sufficient evidence  to be able to uphold the complaint on this 
point. So having considered all the submissions and evidence I have received in this case, I think  
its more likely that BoS wouldve made Mr and Mrs B aware  that the PPI was optional  and that 
they chose  to take it, even though they may not remember that now, many years later. 
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for them  
and based  on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the material times, I think  that it was. For 
example I cant  see they were affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and 
they seem to have had a need for the cover.   
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And it seems 
like it would have been useful for them  if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them off taking out 
the cover. 
Ref: DRN48598353Ive thought about everything  Mr and Mrs B and their representatives have said.  But these points 
dont change  my decision. Mr and Mrs B were taking on large  financial commitments and the PPI 
was intended  to remove the additional pressure  of paying  the mortgage at what might be a 
difficult time financially.  I think it would have given them  additional peace of mind  in relation to an 
important financial  commitment. And the PPI would  have paid out in addition  to any of Mr and 
Mrs Bs existing  benefits  and possibly  for longer. So I dont  think this made the cover unsuitable 
for them.
I also note Mr and Mrs B have complained about a lack of a pro-rata  refund. However, Mr and 
Mrs Bs policies  were  paid by monthly premium and so this does not affect my decision.  
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B have said, but these points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So BoS doesnt need to refund everything Mr and 
Mrs B paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr and Mrs B back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs to do anything more. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  provided above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision  before 22 
February 2019.
Marie Lewiecki
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4859835