K821x#15complaint
Mr J has complained that Positive Solutions  (now  Quilter Financial Planning Solutions 
Limited) advice in 2015 has caused him to have a higher liability to tax on his pension than 
would otherwise have been the case.  This is because of the effect of the pension  lifetime 
allowance limit (LTA).  
background
I have previously issued  provisional decisions dated 4 December  2020  and 30 September  
2020. Copies  are attached and form part of this final decision. In my provisional decisions  I 
set out that I was intending to uphold the complaint. In my provisional decision of 
4 December 2020 I set out how I believed Mr J should be compensated. 
I have not received any further submissions from Quilter.  Mr J did not accept my provisional 
decision of 4 December  2020 in terms of the compensation  I suggested. In summary  he 
said:
When he submitted his claim the compensation would have been higher  over 
£100,000.
He had submitted  a, fully costed and supported  claim for £73,000. If my award is 
maintained then the adviser, after allowing for the fee she received for the advice and 
a payment from the insurer,  will only have to pay a small amount of compensation. 
He will have paid out £43,000. So he as the innocent party will have paid out 20 
times the cost of the guilty party and the insurer will only pay £20,000 of what was 
originally a £100,000 claim. He says that the, settlement should reflect the 
deliberation it's based upon  and leave all parties  satisfied.
The proposed  settlement  should  include; 
£25,000 for the tax liability 
a refund of the advisers  fees of £8,000 (bearing in mind  her actions), 
second opinion fees of £8,000, 
£4,000 of costs  for addressing questions from this service and other parties 
during this complaint
Mitigation Costs. £29,000 has been  spent to actively manage  the fund and 
reduce the liability  caused  by the adviser.  
Stress related costs.
interest related costs,  bearing in mind  it has taken over two years to settle 
the complaint.
He would be prepared  to accept an award  of £45,000.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN41792732I have considered Mr Js further submissions  carefully. I appreciate his position  that Quilter  is 
not being required to pay compensation of a level that would recognise the severity of its 
error. However I would  say that:
I set out in my provisional decisions that I do not fine or punish businesses  for their 
actions. I award  the redress necessary to correct  the loss that has actually been 
caused, not that which may have been  caused. Therefore I do not make awards 
which seek to penalise the individuals involved because of the errors they have 
made. That is irrelevant to how compensation is arrived at. As I say, the 
compensation should be whatever is required to address the loss, not punish various 
parties for their involvement in causing that loss. I assume when Mr J refers  to an 
insurer, that he is referring to a personal  indemnity  insurer  which may or may not be 
insuring some of the losses that Quilter might  have to pay. Be that as it may, 
whatever business arrangements Quilter might  have  as to how an award is paid is 
similarly irrelevant  to the amount it has to pay to settle the complaint.
In terms of the losses claimed,  I have set out why I will not ask Quilter to refund the 
fees charged by its adviser in my provisional  decision. I remain of that view.  
In terms of the mitigation and advice cost that have been  claimed,  I would clarify that 
costs are not normally awarded for having  to bring  a complaint to this service or 
administering such a complaint (such  as answering  questions  in order to progress 
the complaint).  I do not believe here that professional assistance was required for 
that and Mr J has clearly made  his points of complaint throughout  the process. I 
disagree that the costs incurred to rectify and mitigate Mr Js position have been 
clearly set out. I would  repeat  what I said in my provisional decision that various  
amounts have been claimed but it is isnt set out in any detail what those amounts 
relate to. I would refer the parties to my provisional decision of 4 December 2020 for 
my findings in that respect.  
I do not believe interest is payable on the excess tax Mr J will have to pay in relation 
to the amount above the LTA limit as I have not seen evidence  that this has yet been 
paid. 
I did make an award for the upset caused, although I appreciate  that this was some 
way from the amount  that Mr J claimed. I remain  of the view that my award  in this 
respect is appropriate. 
In conclusion, I remain of the view set out in my provisional decision of 4 December 2020. 
That is that the complaint should  be upheld and compensation should be calculate and paid 
in the following manner.
Ref: DRN41792733Fair compensation
Mr J has set out previously that £44,000  of his pension exceeds the LTA. Due to fluctuations 
in the value of whatever assets that sum is invested  in, that sum may, as at the date of this 
final decision, be more  or less than that. But whatever  the figure is, at the date of this final 
decision, now represented by that £44,000,  is they sum Quilter  should use to calculate the 
excess tax charge that he will have to pay. To that sum should be applied a tax rate of 45%. 
So 45% of that figure is the sum that Quilter should  pay to Mr J.
In addition, Quilter should  pay Mr J £400 for the inconvenience and upset caused and 
£5,000 for costs.  
If the redress is not paid within 28 days of Mr Js acceptance of this decision, then interest 
will be payable  at 8% simple a year on the loss amount, inconvenience and upset amount 
and the costs amount from the date of this decision until the date the redress is paid. If 
Quilter considers that it is legally required to deduct  income tax from the interest,  it must 
send a tax deduction certificate with the payment.  Mr J can reclaim  the tax from HM 
Revenue and Customs  if appropriate.
my final decision
I currently intend to uphold the complaint and award compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2021.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41792734copy provisional decision
 
complaint
Mr J has complained that Positive Solutions (now Quilter  Financial Planning Solutions Limited) advice 
in 2015 has caused  him to have a higher  liability  to tax on his pension than would otherwise  have 
been the case. This is because of the effect of the pension lifetime  allowance limit (LTA).   
background
I issued a provisional decision on 30 September 2020. A copy  is attached  and forms part of this 
provisional decision.  In the provisional decision of 30 September I set out why I believed  Mr Js 
complaint should be upheld.
Quilter did not accept  the provisional  decision. In summary it said:
It disagrees that it would have been best advice to fully crystallise Mr Js pension plans when 
they did not exceed  the lifetime allowance  when the advice was given, or in April 2016.  It 
referenced Mr J did not need  the tax free cash and this would have increased the value of his 
estate.
Mr J was made aware of the need to review  his pension yearly  this was set out in the 
Suitability Report. This would have included  a review  of any legislative or statutory changes.
Mr J has been absolved of the consequences of his decision not to review his pensions.  
I have  based my decision on future legislation that was not in force  at the time the advice was 
given and the lifetime  allowance had not been breached  when such  legislation was 
implemented in April 2016.
The plan was transferred to new advisers in June 2018  and at that point it was only valued at 
about £1,040,389. Therefore any redress should be based on the pension being fully 
crystallised as at the date of transfer and on the amount that exceeded the lifetime  allowance 
at that point in time.
Mr J responded  and said that he agrees with the provisional  decision but believes different 
compensation should be awarded. In summary  he has said:
His pension normal retirement date was 18 May 2019 and it would have been his intention to 
crystallise his pension at this point. At that point his pension fund was £1,247,640.33  and the 
LTA at that point was £1,055,000. So his fund was £192,640.33 above the LTA at that point.  
The LTA at 55% on that would  be £105,952.18.  
He could  have used drawdown or an annuity but did not feel comfortable making a decision at 
this time due the situation  with Quilter being unresolved. He has suffered a loss of value due 
to the Covid 19 situation  since  this time, which would make any annuity income lower. 
If his fund had been crystallised in 2015 then his fund would have been smaller than the LTA 
and he would  not have  faced the LTA charge. 
The advice fee charged by Quilter  should be refunded and he should be awarded  a sum for 
the stress this situation has created.
He originally planned  to retire in 2018 but he was reluctant to access  his pension funds whilst 
the situation remained unresolved with Quilter. But he had to access his pension  in May 2019. 
Ref: DRN41792735His adviser at the time advised him to only crystallise sufficient funds to get him through  the 
tax year. He would have preferred to crystallise the entire amount of his pension  funds. 
In 2020 when he came  to access his pension  fund again, the value of his fund had fallen by 
about £200,000 and his adviser  said that this was an opportunity  to crystallise most of his 
pension within the £1,055,000 LTA at the time. He crystallised the pension value up to the 
LTA at the time, leaving the remainder uncrystallised.
But for Quilters  actions he would not have needed to employ his new adviser or pay for the 
costs of doing  so. 
My suggested  compensation will reward Quilter for the time it has taken to resolve this issue. 
His fund value  has been affected  by the Covid 19 situation and his retirement  plans have 
been compromised.  He originally  had a tax liability in excess  of £105,000  due to the flawed 
advice given by Quilter.  
He has of today an uncrystallised  fund value  of £44,284.95 with a tax liability of £24,356.72. 
But he has incurred  fees (from his adviser) to get to that position which  he would not have 
incurred but for the actions of Quilter. He requests  compensation  of this tax liability,  plus the 
adviser fees he has been charged, plus Quilters advice charge,  plus a payment for stress  
and a payment of interest. This amounts  to about  £67,000. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate the comments that PS has made,  there  is little I can add to the findings  in my 
provisional decision.  To reiterate, I said:
Bearing in mind that, at the time of the advice, the lifetime  allowance was £1.25 million and that this 
was soon  to be reduced to £1 million, this should have been discussed  with Mr J. I have  not seen 
evidence that it was. 
I do not accept PSs argument that the fact that the budget changes had not come into effect  when 
the advice was given somehow reduces  its relevance  or importance. It is clear  that the government 
intended to make these changes and highly likely they would apply. It is clear  that PS should have 
taken this into account when  providing  its advice  and there is no mention  of it in the advisers 
recommendation letter.  In fact, apart from an oblique reference to the lifetime allowance in respect of 
a discussion about alternative  pension  options, there is no discussion  of the lifetime  allowance at all. 
Even if the assumption was that the lifetime allowance was £1.5 million,  given the pension savings Mr 
J had already accumulated  and his intention  to make significant further contributions in future, I would  
have thought  it would be appropriate to discuss this matter in detail. The fact that the lifetime 
allowance was actually  £1.25 million only it made it more important that Mr J was made aware of this 
fact and it was taken  into account when providing  the recommendations. 
In addition, PS should have been aware  of the intended reduction to the lifetime allowance, set this 
out, discussed it with Mr J, and decided  what  were the most appropriate steps to take. If it had I do 
not believe it likely that the same decisions would  have been taken. Mr J had already accumulated 
approaching £1 million in pension savings  and was intending to make further contributions of £40,000 
a year.  Bearing that it mind, and anticipating a reasonable  level for return on his pensions  savings, it 
was clear that it would be highly likely that Mr J would breach the lifetime  allowance within a few 
years. 
To be clear,  I do not accept that PS did not have to discuss these issues with Mr J because  the 
changes had yet to be enacted.  Any reasonable adviser  would  know that it was highly likely  these 
changes would come  into effect and take them into account when giving advice.  
Ref: DRN41792736As I discussed in the provisional decision, it was not incumbent  on Mr J to take further advice 
between 2015 and 2018 and I do not believe PSs liability is limited  on this basis.  The fact that Mr J 
may have had to opt for a higher level of tax free cash if he crystallised his pension  benefits earlier 
does not mean this crystallisation route would not or should not have been taken. He did not have to 
spend that money  and could have simply invested it. I assume that the comment about  this increasing 
his estate is made on the basis of inheritance tax. Although any such liability is not set out, such an 
increase in his estate  would be highly  likely to occur in future  in any event  and there  are mitigation 
actions that could be taken.  
In terms of redress, PS has said that this should be based on the situation that applied  in June 2018 
when he transferred  servicing of his pension  to new advisers. That assumes Mr J would  have 
immediately discovered the error with PSs advice and assumes he should  have then immediately 
taken steps to crystallise  his pension. That is not reasonable  it would be reasonable  to allow some 
time for that to be clarified and Mr J to assess and take advice on his situation.  
Having said that, there is a reasonable expectation  that an individual will mitigate their situation. In 
fact Mr J did do so. When I issued the provisional  decision I wasnt aware that he had taken the steps 
that he has now confirmed.  I based the redress on the assumption  that he had not crystallised any of 
his pension. But that is not the situation.  Mr J has said that he crystallised  some of his pension (it is 
unclear how much) around May 2019. And I assume (a total of) £1,055,000 around March 2020 (as 
Mr J says he crystallised up to the LTA limit at that point). He says he acted  in this way because  of 
the uncertainty created  by his ongoing  complaint with Quilter. 
I would confirm that my role is not to penalise businesses for their actions and I do not issue fines or 
penalties. This service is not the industry regulator  that is the FCA.  Any redress I award would be to 
reasonably make good what I believe  were  the actual  losses created by some error  of a business. I 
can also make awards for costs and any upset or inconvenience caused. 
In terms of what has actually happened here, Mr J has taken some steps to mitigate his situation.  
Given the specific circumstances  I think those  steps  are reasonable  I dont agree that he should  
necessarily have crystallised his entire pension fund at some point  in late 2018. By September 2018 
Mr J had taken action  by complaining to Quilter. In the circumstances I do not believe it was 
unreasonable for Mr J to take the action that he did  it was not that he simply ignored the situation   
he did take some mitigation  steps in an uncertain situation. That mitigation  has not only assisted his 
position but that of the redress Quilter would potentially be liable  for. Given the circumstances I 
believe it is fair that the situation should be viewed  and redress calculated based on the position as 
applies now.  
Mr J has said that he would have considered an annuity as well as drawdown in 2018/2019. But he 
has opted for drawdown and therefore  I have  based  my assessment on his decision  being more likely 
to enter drawdown.  I would also say that, given the size of his fund and the pension  freedoms, that it 
would be more unusual  that he would opt for an annuity. Therefore his pension fund would  have 
remained invested and that fund would have likely  been affected by the same market  movements (as 
discussed by Mr J) as applied  to his uncrystallised  pension. Whilst he could submit that fund choice  
would have been different and that would  have changed things to some extent, that is too uncertain  
I believe it is fair to assume the same market movements Mr J describes would  have applied  in any 
event. 
  
By virtue of Mr Js actions he only has a fund value of about £44,000  that exceeds the current LTA.  
Although my view is that the tax rate should be assumed to be 45% (for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision), I agree that this should  be the sum that is used to calculate  redress.  
Mr J has requested that he be awarded £5,000 for stress. Whilst  I understand that this matter would  
have been upsetting for him, I dont  believe that is warranted. That kind of award would only be made 
by this service in extreme circumstances and whilst  I acknowledge the upset of discovering that he 
had issues with his lifetime  allowance, I believe my award of £400 is reasonable.   
Ref: DRN41792737I also do not believe that Quilter should refund the costs of advice. It made an error  in terms of the 
lifetime allowance   and I am requiring that it compensates  Mr J for that. That mistake does not 
render the entirely of its advice void or unwarranted  and its recommendations covered  far more  
issues than LTA limits.  I do not believe it is fair to ask it to refund its fees. I believe the redress I will 
suggest is a fair resolution. 
In terms of the fees Mr J has claimed, they appear to amount to about £30,000. I have asked for a 
detailed breakdown as to how those fees were incurred  (what each  individual fee was for) but I have 
not received that level of granularity. I have only received  a list of the amounts charged.  Based on 
what I have seen  I cannot  make an award  for costs of the size that has been  claimed and I dont 
agree that it is likely  that all the fees Mr J incurred are as a natural  result of Quilters  error. Quilters 
error with respect  to the LTA would  have  caused  him to review his situation in 2018/2019. And in my 
view it would  be reasonable  to seek professional  financial  advice as to what  the options were  to 
mitigate the situation  i.e. mitigate the effect of the LTA. That would not include advice that would be 
likely incurred  in any event  such as what  vehicle to use for taking benefits or active  monitoring or 
management by a professional adviser (which  it does appear  make up a large  portion  of the costs). 
On the spreadsheet supplied, there appear to be large lump sum fees such as a Portfolio 
Establishment Fee which might well be an initial fee for investment into a specific  investment platform 
(it is not clear). That would not necessarily be a result of the error made  by Quilter. In addition to that 
are fees amounting to over £11,000 that are described  as deriving from fees relating to the complaint 
or crystallisation. That is a very large amount considering  what  would  be reasonably necessary to 
take advice on the specific error made by PS. 
I do think an award  for costs  is appropriate  in these circumstances because Mr J was faced  with a 
situation of PSs making that would be difficult for him to deal with on his own.  I think  it was 
reasonable for him to seek  professional assistance in that respect.  But because of the lack of detail 
my suggested  award will be pragmatic and based on what  I think  would have been a reasonable sum 
to seek  advice  as to the matter. I will therefore suggest £5,000. 
fair compensation
Mr J has said that £44,000 of his pension exceeds the LTA. This may change  somewhat due to 
fluctuations in investment returns,  but whatever that value  is at the date of my final decision is the 
sum that should be used for calculation of the loss figure. To that figure should  be applied a tax rate of 
45%. So 45% of that figure is the sum that Quilter will required to pay to Mr J.
In addition it should pay him £400 for the inconvenience and upset caused and £5,000 for costs.  
If the redress is not paid within 28 days of Mr Js acceptance of my final decision, then interest will be 
payable at 8% simple a year on the loss amount  and the costs amount from the date of my final 
decision until the date the redress is paid. If Quilter considers that it is legally  required to deduct  
income tax from the interest,  it must send a tax deduction  certificate with the payment. Mr J can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold the complaint  and award compensation as set out above.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41792738copy provisional decision 
complaint
Mr J has complained that Positive Solutions (now Quilter  Financial Planning Solutions Limited) advice 
in 2015 has caused  him to have a higher  liability  to tax on his pension than would otherwise  have 
been the case. This is because of the effect of the pension lifetime  allowance limit. 
background
Positive Solutions (PS) wrote to Mr J on 23 March  2015 giving him advice about his pension. In order 
to achieve his goal of securing maximum allowable annual pension contributions, Mr J was advised 
by PS to transfer  about £360,000  into an existing  Standard Life pension plan, crystallise a nominal 
amount, and continue to make gross  contributions of £40,000  to his pensions annually.  Mr J accepted 
the advice.
The advisers  report  from PS also stated  that:
Mr Js combined pension plans  were valued at about £915,000
The pension  lifetime allowance was £1.5 million
There was a tax charge of 55% for everything in excess of £1.5 million
Mr J complained in 2018 to PS about their advice, having been  informed by his new financial adviser  
that he had exceeded  the lifetime allowance.  He said that PS had not told him in 2015 that the lifetime  
allowance was due to be reduced to £1 million. He would  have taken different steps if he had been  
told that. PS did not uphold the complaint. In summary  it said: 
Mr J was a Finance  Director and trustee of his employers pension  scheme. His level of 
understanding of pensions was therefore higher than usual and it was this knowledge that led 
him to considering  a capped drawdown  plan  because this option was being withdrawn from 
6 April 2015.
Taking capped drawdown  before  2 April 2015 meant that he could retain the option of 
contributing £40,000  a year to pensions whilst retaining  the ability  to take income from the 
drawdown plan. 
Mr J intended to remain  employed  for the next four years  and maximise pension contributions 
with the option to take an income in four or five years time from the pension  - with the option 
of still being able to make pension contributions. 
When the drawdown was completed the majority of Mr Js pension  funds remined 
uncrystallised. 
Mr J declined  the recommended ongoing advice  service  so the adviser was under  no 
obligation to provide any further advice or inform him of any subsequent legislative of 
statutory changes. If Mr J had not sought further advice  in light of further changes  in pension 
legislation after 2 April 2015, the adviser cannot be alible  for any subsequent  tax charge  
incurred on the basis of the inaction  to seek further advice. 
Furthermore the tax charge is only levied when  withdrawals are taken, on death  or age 75, 
and will depend  on annual allowance at that point. 
The advice was suitable.
The complaint was referred to this service. An adjudicator at the service  considered the complaint and 
thought it should be upheld.
Ref: DRN41792739The adjudicator thought that the suitability  report given  to Mr J had incorrectly stated the lifetime  
allowance was £1.5 million  when it was actually £1.25  million. The adjudicator  also noted that a week 
prior to the report being  written, the Chancellor  of the Exchequer had announced that the lifetime  
allowance would be dropping even further to £1 million in April 2016. Given that Mr Js pensions were 
valued at £914,000 at the time of advice, and the widely publicised budget announcement, the 
adjudicator felt that PS should have known  the allowance  would soon be dropping  and should have 
advised Mr J accordingly. 
The adjudicator stated that correct advice should have been for Mr J to have applied  for fixed 
protection 2016, which  would have given him a lifetime allowance of £1.25 million. And to have 
ceased making  contributions altogether to his pensions to allow sufficient  room for investment growth. 
Redress should be paid to Mr J with this in mind.
Mr J and his adviser partially accepted the adjudicators  view but suggested a different method of 
redress. They  stated that correct advice  should have been for Mr J to crystallise his entire  plan in 
March 2015. Based  on a value of £914,104, this would  have used 73.13% of the then lifetime 
allowance of £1.25 million, and all growth from this crystallised portion  would be excluded from future  
lifetime allowance  charges. Mr J would  then have been left with 26.87% of the current  (then)  lifetime  
allowance of £1,055,000, a total of £283,478.  This would  have allowed  Mr J to have made  full 
contributions of £40,000  each year until his retirement in 2018, with room  for investment growth, safe 
from the lifetime allowance tax charge.
The adjudicator considered this method of redress and was persuaded  it was more suitable. The 
adjudicator recommended this method  be used. 
The business,  meanwhile, did not agree with the adjudicators original outcome. They stated that 
although their suitability report had given the wrong  lifetime  allowance figure  of             £1.5  million 
when it was actually £1.25 million, the new £1 million value had yet to be passed into law. Also, it had 
stated, at the time the advice was given, that the current rate of tax was 55% if the allowance was 
exceeded.
PS also stated that because Mr J had not taken ongoing advice and because the lifetime  allowance 
breach occurred  later,  the complaint should not be upheld. Finally,  the business also commented that 
Mr J should still be able to apply for Individual  Protection 2016 (which  is different to Fixed Protection 
2016), which  would  mitigate the loss.
The adjudicator was not persuaded by PSs arguments.  The adjudicator reiterated that had both PS 
and Mr J been  in possession of the correct facts,  that advice would  have been different. The 
adjudicator also did not agree that Mr Js decision  to not take ongoing advice was relevant because  
the advice was wrong at the time it was given. Finally, the adjudicator  explained that Mr J could not 
apply for individual  protection  2016 because the lifetime  allowance breach  had happened after 5 April 
2016.
Consequently the complaint has been referred to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The PS adviser sent Mr J a letter dated 23 March 2015 which set out his recommendations with 
regards to his pension.  This  set out that Mr J was 56, earned £150,000 a year and planned to retire  
at 75. 
It was discussed that he had: 
A group  pension  plan with Standard Life, to which his employer contributed £24,000 a year
Ref: DRN417927310Personal pension  plans with Aviva and Standard Life with ongoing contributions  of £16,000  a 
year
an anticipated state pension of about £7,000 a year
Needs and objectives were  set out:
This letter  concentrates solely on your stated objective of retirement provision
and specifically  on taking  a minimum  tax free cash lump  sum of £1 from your
pension fund.  You do not currently  require  additional income, although this will
change in the future, and as such you specifically want to leave the balance of
your funds invested until such time as you choose to commence taking a
retirement income.
Your primary objective  is to secure a capped drawdown  contract  prior to the
rule changes  on 6th April 2015, as this will then secure the ability to continue  to
fund the plan at the current maximum level of £40000 pa. You understand that if
the whole fund remained invested for longer, you have the potential  for a higher
tax free cash sum.
By taking a tax free lump  sum now,  the growth potential  of your pension  fund is
reduced. This could have  the effect  of providing a lower  income in retirement.
Despite this, you have confirmed  that you want access to your tax free lump as it
is very important to you to secure a capped drawdown contract by the end of
this tax year.
This means  that the balance of your pension fund will be invested for the
potential for future  growth.
The combined  value of Mr Js pensions  plans was recorded as about  £915,000. The adviser went to 
recommend Mr J transfer some of his pensions to a drawdown plan. It was confirmed  that, you plan 
to make annual contributions  of £10,080  (net) to the new plan. These contributions will go into a 
'pension accrual  pot'.
It was set out that Mr J was to only take the sum of £1 in tax free cash   effectively so that he could 
enter drawdown whilst making further contributions. It was set out that Mr J would  not be taking any 
income from the drawdown plan. It was recorded that:
Your sole aim is to secure a capped drawdown contract prior to the change  in regulations on 6th April 
2015.
Because:
It is advantageous for you to enter into capped drawdown before 2 April 2015 as
that means that even if you make income withdrawals  from the drawdown
arrangement, you can still retain the full annual allowance  for new pension
saving (currently £40,000),  which automatically applies  under flexible
drawdown.
Furthermore, even where you are uncertain that you may need a full annual
allowance in future, you may benefit through going into capped drawdown  now,
simply to maximize your future options for future pension  saving when also
making income withdrawals.
A note in the letter is indicative of Mr Js future intentions: 
I looked into with-profit  and unit-linked  investment annuities which are
designed to provide a rising  income over time. However,  as they are investment
Ref: DRN417927311linked, while the income can rise, it can also fall. You preferred not to consider
this route further as using the capped drawdown  route secures the future ability
to continue to make  contributions at the current maximum  level of £40000.
Of relevance to this complaint is that it was also set out:
If your state of health was such that you were considered  to be in serious ill health
with a shortened life expectancy we could  consider not vesting your
pension at all as in these circumstances, it may be possible for your dependants
to take your entire pension fund as a lump sum. Where the amount of the fund
exceeds the current Lifetime Allowance  of £1.5m (my emphasis), then a tax charge of 55% will 
apply. As above, given  that you are in good health,  this option is not available  to
you or your dependants.
Apart from this reference in the letter there is no discussion  of the lifetime allowance, how this might 
affect Mr J or that certain protections are available.
When the advice was given  the actual lifetime allowance was £1.25  million, not £1.5 million.  
In addition, on 15 March 2015 the 2015 Budget announcement had been published. This set out the 
governments intention to reduce the lifetime  allowance for pensions to £1 million from April 2016.   
Bearing in mind  that, at the time of the advice,  the lifetime allowance was £1.25  million and that this 
was soon  to be reduced to £1 million, this should have been discussed  with Mr J. I have  not seen 
evidence that it was. 
I do not accept PSs argument that the fact that the budget changes had not come into effect  when 
the advice was given somehow reduces  its relevance  or importance. It is clear  that the government 
intended to make these changes and highly likely they would apply. It is clear  that PS should have 
taken this into account when  providing  its advice  and there is no mention  of it in the advisers 
recommendation letter.  In fact, apart from an oblique reference to the lifetime allowance in respect of 
a discussion about alternative  pension  options, there is no discussion  of the lifetime  allowance at all. 
Even if the assumption was that the lifetime allowance was £1.5 million,  given the pension savings Mr 
J had already accumulated  and his intention  to make significant further contributions in future, I would  
have thought  it would be appropriate to discuss this matter in detail. The fact that the lifetime 
allowance was actually  £1.25 million only it made it more important that Mr J was made aware of this 
fact and it was taken  into account when providing  the recommendations. 
In addition, PS should have been aware  of the intended reduction to the lifetime allowance, set this 
out, discussed it with Mr J, and decided  what  were the most appropriate steps to take. If it had I do 
not believe it likely that the same decisions would  have been taken. Mr J had already accumulated 
approaching £1 million in pension savings  and was intending to make further contributions of £40,000 
a year.  Bearing that it mind, and anticipating a reasonable  level for return on his pensions  savings, it 
was clear that it would be highly likely that Mr J would breach the lifetime  allowance within a few 
years. 
I also do not accept that PS is not liable  because mention was made of a 55% tax charge  above the 
lifetime allowance  in the advisers  recommendation  letter. That clearly misses the point that Mr J 
could, had PS provided appropriate advice, taken other steps  to mitigate  or avoid such a tax charge. 
He was only taking the steps he did based on erroneous information and advice provided by PS. 
The material  issue is not that Mr Js pension  was valued  at less than the lifetime allowance in 2015,  
but that it would likely exceed  the lifetime  allowance  in future  which PS clearly did not take into 
account or advise Mr J of. It is the ramifications of that oversight which  are being  considered.
Ref: DRN417927312I do not agree that PS is not liable for Mr Js current situation because he did not take further financial 
advice between 2015 and 2018. There was no necessity for him to take advice in this period and he 
was proceeding on the basis of advice that PS had given  him in 2015. 
Consequently I believe that Mr Js complaint should be upheld.
fair compensation
Mr J has said that, had he been advised of the correct situation  by PS, he would  have (and should 
have been advised to) crystallise his full fund so that it was assessed against the lifetime allowance at 
that point.  That would have  left about 27% of the applicable lifetime allowance applying at the time of 
future crystallization remaining, which he could have 
utilised for further contributions (and any growth on them). My view is that is a reasonable  submission 
and would have been a reasonable step to take at the time.  Mr J didnt have to take any significant 
amount of income to do that and any tax free cash could simply have been reinvested elsewhere.  So I 
do not believe  PSs submissions in that respect are persuasive.  
Consequently I believe that redress  based on this approach is fair. This is on the assumption that Mr J 
has not made any further pension contributions after he was advised of the issue of the lifetime 
allowance in 2018. 
Whilst my understanding  is that Mr J has not yet crystallised the full value  of his pensions  yet, I do not 
believe he should be required to so before redress is paid. And I believe it is fair to compensate him 
now, based on the position  that applies currently. PS would not be liable for any future losses that 
might accrue  after this point.
My view of the redress  calculation differs somewhat from that suggested by the investigator. 
My view is that PS should  calculate and pay redress as follows:
Firstly assume that Mr J had crystallised  his entire pension pot in March 2015, with a value  of 
£914,104, which would have the effect  of using 73.13%  of his then lifetime  allowance of £1.25 million.
This would mean Mr J would have had a remaining lifetime allowance  of £288,342, based on 26.87%  
of the current lifetime allowance of £1,073,100.
As at the date of my decision, this gives Mr J an effective  lifetime allowance of £1,202,446. 
Obtain the value for the purposes of the lifetime allowance of Mr Js pensions plans as at the date of 
my final decision. Then calculate  the value  of that which is in excess of £1,073,100  but below 
£1,202,446. This is value B. 
Assume 25% of value  B is tax free cash  and would  have had no tax applied. Assume now that a tax 
rate of 45% will be applicable on this amount (assuming  Mr J will be a basic rate taxpayer in 
retirement). So this 45% is value C.
Assuming that Mr J takes the rest of value B as income*, he will face an effective excess  (above  
lifetime allowance) tax rate of 25% on this amount - that he would  not otherwise have paid had he had 
the higher lifetime allowance. To the remainder of value B after the 25% tax free cash has been 
deducted, apply a tax rate of 25%. This is value  D. 
 
C + D is the redress to be paid to Mr J. 
If the redress is not paid within 28 days of Mr Js acceptance of my final decision, then interest will be 
payable at 8% simple a year on the loss amount  from the date of my final decision until the date the 
redress is paid. If the business considers that it is legally  required to deduct income tax from the 
Ref: DRN417927313interest, it must send  a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Mr J can reclaim  the tax from HM 
Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
I also intend  to award Mr J £400 for the upset and inconvenience this matter will have caused him. It 
would have been upsetting to realise  that he has a potentially large tax liability that could have  been 
avoided. 
* I have not assumed that Mr J will take this as a lump sum  ordinarily pensions  (apart  from any tax 
free lump sum)  are taken as income  and I believe that this the most  appropriate method to apply in 
the circumstances. 
 
It is possible that Mr Js pension  fund exceeds £1,202,446.  And it might be argued that any sum in 
excess of that would  not have been accumulated because  pension planning  post 2015 would have 
mitigated it (had he been given suitable advice and information in 2015). That might have been 
achieved by, say, reducing contributions.  But I think that it is too speculative to calculate, given any 
reduction in contributions may or may not have been reflected elsewhere and considering  that the 
majority of contributions  were made by Mr Js employer.  Based on Mr Js submissions about what he 
would have done, he would not have ordinarily been able to avoid  tax on pension  value above  
£1,202,446. And the tax applied above that amount only seeks to recover the benefit  of the tax reliefs, 
it is not a penalty.  
As discussed, this redress is based on contributions not being made  after April 2018 and on the 
assumption that Mr J has not crystallised  any of his other  pension benefits.  If that is not the case, then 
the parties should let me know.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold the complaint  and make the award detailed  above.  
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4179273