K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that they were  mis-sold  a decreasing term assurance (DTA) policy  
with Critical Illness Cover  (CIC)  referred to in this decision as the policy  by Bank of 
Scotland Plc (the business). 
They say they were led to believe the policy was a condition of their mortgage. They also 
say Mrs M had death in service benefit (and sick pay), so the policy wasnt  necessary. 
background
The business hasnt  upheld the complaint. In summary,  it said:
Mrs M met with an adviser in June 1998,  and it was agreed that she wished to look at 
mortgage protection as a priority.
The adviser identified  a protection shortfall in respect of Mr and Mrs Ms joint 
borrowing. In other  words, in the event of death or diagnosis  of a critical illness they 
had no mortgage  protection. 
The adviser was aware that Mrs M had death  in service benefit  and sick pay, but this 
wouldnt normally be relied upon to protect a mortgage.
Mr and Mrs M were  recommended a joint DTA policy  with CIC, that matched the 
mortgage term and amount.  
The adviser subsequently wrote to them with the recommendation, so they had time 
to consider the recommendation and cancel it, if it wasnt what  they wanted. 
It was a matter for Mr and Mrs M whether  (or not) they wanted the policy  as life cover 
wasnt a condition of their mortgage.     
The adviser wouldnt apply pressure for Mr and Mrs M to take cover  but its sorry if 
thats how they felt. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Hes seen nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs M were told that the policy was a 
condition of their mortgage.
Hes unable to say that the policy recommended in respect of a repayment mortgage 
is unsuitable in the circumstances.  
In the event of death of one of the lives assured the policy  would ensure that the 
outstanding mortgage  balance is paid off. 
Although Mrs M had death in service benefits, this wasnt  an adequate replacement 
for life cover  in respect of a repayment mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans  
decision. In short, Mrs M made  the following key points:
They dont feel the investigator has grasped  the main points of their complaint. 
The investigator makes no mention of them being sold a policy  that they didnt need 
or want.  
They only agreed to take out the policy because they were told (in no uncertain 
terms) that without it their mortgage wouldnt be approved. 
Its extremely nave of the investigator  to think that thered be documents available  to 
evidence this hard-sell.  
Ref: DRN42320312Mrs M knew in 1998  at aged  19  that shed be with her employer for the rest of her 
working life. 
Shed  been  with her employer since 1979  until retirement last year when she 
received a generous sum in retirement  that covered her mortgage.  
Mr M wouldve received the same  if shed died or been diagnosed with a critical 
illness, so her half of the policy was mis-sold.  Mr M was a house husband and had 
no want or need for cover,  so the only reason he took out cover was because he was 
told he had to. 
Mrs Ms death in service benefit  was more than enough to cover  her mortgage. 
When Mrs M met with the adviser in 1998,  their only priority  was getting the 
mortgage, not mortgage protection which they knew nothing about. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt  persuaded to change his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons, Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr and Mrs M say, Im unable to 
safely say that the recommendation  was unsuitable  or that they were told the policy  was a 
condition of their mortgage.  
But before I explain  why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I recognise Mr 
and Mrs Ms strength of feeling about  this matter.
Theyve provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  they wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr and Mrs M and the business, and reach what  I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information  
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Theres no dispute that life cover  wasnt  a condition of the borrowing and therefore Mr and 
Mrs M were under no obligation to take out the policy in respect  of their mortgage. Despite 
what they say Ive seen nothing  to suggest that life cover was a condition of their mortgage. 
This doesnt mean that the recommendation for life cover in respect of a repayment  
mortgage was unsuitable. In my opinion the complaint doesnt just hinge  on life cover being 
a condition of the mortgage but also whether or not the recommendation was suitable.
Ref: DRN42320313Its possible that the adviser (strongly) recommended Mr and Mrs M take out life cover to 
protect their mortgage, but that doesnt mean the adviser was wrong  to do so, or that 
pressure was applied  such that if they didnt take out cover their mortgage would be denied.  
But despite  what Mrs M says, Im unable to safely conclude  they were  told that the policy  
was a condition  of their mortgage and that they simply  couldnt  get the mortgage without it. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr and Mrs M drew the advisers attention  to any existing 
life cover they had or wanted to use, instead of taking out the policy. The adviser can only 
advise on the basis of the information provided.  
In the event of Mr M or Mrs M dying before the mortgage was repaid, the recommended 
policy was designed  to fully repay the outstanding borrowing. And the policy  was designed to 
go down in line with the outstanding loan amount, over the term of the mortgage. So, in the 
circumstances I cant say that there was no need  for the policy. And given the length of time 
that it was maintained, I cant say that Mr and Mrs M didnt meet the affordability  and 
eligibility requirements for the policy either.   
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M say that in 1998  when  they met the adviser, they knew nothing 
about mortgage protection and that their priority was getting  a mortgage. Even if Mr and Mrs 
M knew  nothing about mortgage  protection  at that stage, I would still expect  their attention  to 
be drawn to it as there was evidently  a need. 
In other  words, I would expect the business to advise Mr and Mrs M to take out life cover so 
that in the event of death or diagnosis of a specified critical illness  the surviving spouse is left 
with a mortgage free property. Im also aware  that Mr and Mrs M had a young  child,  so the 
policy would mean  the surviving spouse was left without the worry of having to pay off the 
mortgage. Im mindful Mr M was a house husband and Mrs M was working  but its likely that 
they were supporting each other  in terms of caring  for bringing up their child.  
Im mindful of the points made by Mr and Mrs M about employee benefits and I note it was 
only in Mrs Ms name. It is the case  that those employee benefits would only have been 
available whilst Mrs M remained in that particular employment. And even if she did stay in 
that employment  with the power of hindsight I can see that she has  there was no 
guarantee that the benefits  wouldnt be withdrawn or changed in future by her employer. But 
the policy, in contrast, would continue to provide  cover as long as the premiums were  paid. 
Despite what Mrs M says,  Im not persuaded that death in service benefit  was an adequate 
replacement for life cover in respect  of a repayment  mortgage. 
I appreciate that a pension can provide a one-off lump sum or smaller payments, but 
pension payments are generally intended to help maintain a standard  of living rather than to 
pay off mortgage  debts. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed  Ive reached the same  conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what they want  to hear.
But on the face of the available evidence, Im unable  to uphold this complaint and give them 
what they want.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN42320314Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  31 August 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4232031