K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Secure Trust Bank Plc (Secure Trust) mis-sold them a 
sickness and accident insurance (a type of payment  protection plan  PPP) in 1988.
background
In 1988 Mr and Mrs S opened  a One Bill account with Secure Trust. This account  helped to 
manage household bills. At the same time they were sold PPP in Mr Ss name only. This 
covered Mr and Mrs Ss monthly bill payments if Mr S couldnt work  because of sickness or if 
he had an accident.  This policy didnt cover  him if he lost his job. In 1988  it would have  cost 
them 4p for every £1 unit of benefit. 
Our adjudicator thought the policy sold in 1988 was mis-sold. He didnt think  the information 
about the costs  and the benefits was clear enough  and thought  if Secure Trust had given 
clearer information then Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have taken out the cover. Secure Trust 
disagreed with this view and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think the issues  for me to consider are 
the same  as those about PPI. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the 
sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint.
Im upholding this complaint and I will explain why.
As the policy was sold such a long time ago, neither  Mr S, Mrs S nor Secure Trust has all 
the paperwork from the time of the sale. This isnt unusual and its understandable as 
businesses arent  required to keep records indefinitely. But I dont have a lot of information 
about the way the policy  was sold to Mr and Mrs S. Where  the evidence  is incomplete, I will 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities,  that is, whats  more likely  to have 
happened taking  into account any evidence that is available, what  the parties have told us 
and what we know about these types of sales.
I dont think its likely  Secure Trust recommended the PPP in 1988 to Mr and Mrs S. That 
meant although it didnt need to take reasonable steps to make sure the policy was suitable 
for them; it still needed to give clear  enough  information so Mr and Mrs S could decide  for 
themselves whether or not they wanted to take it out. I dont think the information Secure 
Trust gave them was clear enough for them to make an informed decision about what they 
wanted to do.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the costs were  clear. I agree. Secure Trust has provided  some 
copies of schedule  of liabilities  which  it says would have been  sent to Mr and Mrs S and set 
out the cost of the PPP. And it says it would have given the cost of the cover  as a cash  
figure at the time the policy was taken out. But I dont think  Mr and Mrs S would have been  
given the schedule at the time of the sale - I think  this would have  been  sent to them  
afterwards. I also dont  think it would  have been easy for Mr and Mrs S to work out exactly  
how much  their premium would be and I dont  think they would have understood that the 
Ref: DRN47897782costs of the policy could vary depending on the amount of Mr and Mrs Ss bills or how much  
the costs of the PPP would be in the long term.
So even if Mr and Mrs S had been told that the cost of the policy was 4p per every £1 unit of 
cover in 1988, I dont  think  it would  have been  easy or clear enough for them to understand 
how much  they were paying. And I dont think Secure Trust would have explained that they 
needed to keep paying the premiums if they made  a successful claim which would  mean the 
benefit from the policy was less than Mr and Mrs S thought it would be.
I need to think  if this would have made a difference to Mr and Mrs S and whether they would 
have been put off buying the cover if they had clearer or better information in 1988.
 
Overall, I think this would  have mattered to Mr and Mrs S. As they were  setting up the One 
Bill account to manage their outgoings, its likely they would have wanted to budget their 
outgoings carefully and they might not have been  in a strong financial position. So I think it 
wouldve been important  to them to understand exactly what the costs  of the policy  would 
be. If the costs  had been properly explained,  I dont think they would have thought  the PPI 
was good value for money and I dont  think they would have bought it.
 
Overall, I think Mr and Mrs S lost out because of what  Secure  Trust did wrong. So I intend to 
uphold this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Secure Trust has said about  being unable to accept that 
the costs werent  clear  and that we havent  expressed how it should have stated the costs 
but these points dont change my decision. I dont think the information provided  was clear 
enough for Mr and Mrs S to understand the true cost of the policy. And I think they would 
have been put off buying the PPP if they had been  given  better  information.
putting things right 
Secure Trust should  put Mr and Mrs S in the position theyd  be in now if they hadnt taken 
out the PPP in 1988. Secure Trust should:
Pay Mr and Mrs S the amount that was paid each  month  for the PPP;
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until Mr and Mrs S get it 
back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on;
If Mr and Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPP policy,  Secure Trust can 
take off what they got for the claims from the amount it owes.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Secure Trust to take off tax from this interest. Secure 
Trust must  give Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if requested.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Secure Trust Bank PLC should pay 
compensation as set out above.
Ref: DRN47897783Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4789778