K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that Legal  & General Insurance Limited (L&G) have caused her significant 
inconvenience and suffering by the way theyve  handled her insurance claim. 
background
Ive attached my provisional decision dated  29 November 2019 which forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I said that I was intending to conclude  that L&G should 
pay Mrs B a further £150, in addition to the £350 theyve already offered, to compensate her 
for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered while works have been carried out to repair  
the damage at her property. I asked L&G and Mrs B to let me have  any final arguments  or 
information theyd  like me to consider by 13 December 2019. 
L&G responded to the provisional decision to confirm they accepted my conclusions; 
however Mrs B hasnt  provided any further  comments in relation to the provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party have provided  any further 
information or arguments for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions 
Ive set out in my provisional decision. So for the reasons detailed in this decision, and the 
provisional decision attached, I uphold this complaint and require L&G to pay Mrs B a total 
sum of £500  to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience  shes suffered as a result 
of the way theyve  handled her claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I require Legal  & General Insurance Limited to pay Mrs B £500,  if 
they havent already done so, to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
suffered. I make  no other  award  against  Legal & General Insurance Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Carolyn Harwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN40044612COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mrs B complains that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) have caused her significant 
inconvenience and suffering  in the way theyve handled her insurance claim.
background
On 2 March 2018 Mrs B contacted L&G to make  a claim for an escape of water from a pipe in the loft 
of her property  which had become disconnected due to snow and ice. Two days later a plumber  came 
to the property to reconnect the pipe. The next day the bedroom  ceiling collapsed,  damaging  the 
carpet, walls  and furniture. A surveyor arrived  on 7 March  to view the damage and, a week later, 
L&Gs contractors started the works to repair the damage which  were completed on 12 October 2018.  
During the period of the claim, Mrs B had health condition diagnosed  which she feels  was made 
worse by the problems she encountered with the claim. She also had major  surgery and says the 
stress she experienced  due to L&Gs poor handling of her claim made  everything more  difficult  for 
her. In addition, for the first two months of the claim,  Mrs B slept  badly as she wasnt able to sleep in 
her own bed. She also says that although  L&G assigned a case manager to her at the end of April, 
shed not spoken  to her case manager. Mrs B believes L&G need to significantly compensate her for 
all the inconvenience and suffering shes experienced  as a result  of what she says was a very poorly 
managed claim.
L&G considered Mrs Bs complaint and issued  their first final response letter in May 2018,  offering 
£100 compensation for the poor service shed  received. In their further final response letter  of 11 
January 2019 L&G increased their offer by £150. Following  discussions with Mrs Bs son, L&G offered 
a further  £100, making a total compensation offer of £350. Mrs B wasnt happy with that offer and felt 
that the stress shed suffered required  something in the region  of additional  £2000  compensation. She 
brought her complaint to this service in January  2019. Our investigator looked into Mrs Bs complaint 
and felt that due to her vulnerabilities, and L&Gs failure  to make adjustments  for her, an additional  
payment of £150 should  be made to Mrs B. L&G accepted our investigators view but Mrs B did not, 
and remained of the view that additional compensation in the region of an £2000  would be 
appropriate. Mrs B then requested an ombudsmans decision  on her complaint.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs B first contacted L&G to make a claim  on 2 March 2018. The works relating to the claim were  
completed on 16 October 2018. So from start to finish the works took seven and a half months to 
complete. But approximately half way through this period,  on 20 July 2018,  damp was identified in the 
kitchen floor and walls  which  necessitated a new scope of works to be agreed and completed in 
relation to that damage.
I can appreciate  this was a difficult and stressful time for Mrs B. But I also have to bear in mind  that 
theres always going to be an element of stress  for a policyholder while an insurance claim  is being  
settled and works are being carried out in their home. So in considering  an appropriate level of 
compensation for distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs B, Ive focused  on the avoidable  delays 
caused by L&G. Ive also thought  about whether  L&G could have done more  for Mrs B, bearing in 
mind her vulnerabilities.
Ive first considered the delays which  have arisen in relation to the original claim,  between    2 March  
and 20 July 2018, to see whether the works  were completed within a reasonable time. Ive then gone 
on to consider the delays which have arisen in completing the second part of the works. 
Ref: DRN40044613Within two days of the major damage occurring L&G arranged for a surveyor to attend the property.  
Within a further week, contractors were on site to start repairing the damage. So I dont think there 
were any delays at the outset of settling the claim. However, on 15 March Mrs B was informed  that 
the furniture  would need to be removed  from the room before the ceiling could be plastered.  But it 
wasnt until 2 May that the furniture was collected.  Mrs B has told us that she made  a number of calls 
to L&G and its contractor during this eight week period but her calls werent returned, which  caused 
her stress and worry. Following an initial  complaint  by Mrs B about  this, L&G offered £100 to 
compensate her for the poor service shed received  up to that point. 
However, the delays and mis-management of Mrs Bs expectations continued  throughout the first part 
of Mrs Bs claim.  On 9 May contractors  collected the rubbish  from the property that had been there for 
two months. Then  Mrs B says there  were  three occasions on which contractors failed to turn up at the 
property, on an agreed day. This meant that she had to make additional calls which she says werent 
returned. By the end of May the painting and decorating had been completed.
By early June Mrs Bs furniture was put together,  and the businesss file indicates that the initial works  
were completed. Then, towards the end of June Mrs B was informed  that the works to the kitchen  
floor would begin on 20 July. 
During this first period  of works being carried out, I think there was an avoidable delay in collecting 
Mrs Bs furniture of at least 6 weeks. Given it was one room which  needed to be emptied, it seems 
unreasonable for L&G to have taken two months to arrange for the furniture  to be collected and 
stored. 
Mrs B has complained that during this time she had to sleep  in a single bed surrounded by furniture 
and clothes,  without her memory foam mattress which meant  her sleep  between      2 March and 8 
June was of poor quality,  exacerbating her health problems. Mrs B also says the stress of having to 
chase L&G and not have  her calls returned has added to her stress  and ill-health.  I dont currently 
think the £100  offered by L&G for the poor service Mrs B received  during this time is sufficient to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience she suffered.
However, I think the delays from early June to 20 July were in the most part attributable to the new 
damage that was identified, and the process that needed to be followed  to have a new schedule of 
works agreed by L&G.  
While carrying  out the initial repairs to the property the damp in the kitchen floor and walls  was 
identified, extending the original repair schedule  by a further three months. I accept that the new 
damage led to the claim being  unavoidably delayed, however I dont think all of the work was carried 
out as quickly as it could have been  during the second part of the claim.  
Once the damp in the kitchen was identified,  it was referred  back  to L&Gs  technical team to approve, 
and approval was given within 11 days. It then took a further  three weeks to get contractors on site. 
They knocked  some  plaster off the wall and removed  the skirting board  but then told Mrs Bs son that 
they couldnt repair the walls  and screed the floor until theyd received a certificate of dryness from the 
specialist contractor. The drying equipment was installed  on 5 September and the specialist 
contractor certified it was dry on 24 September. 
This is where I think the second avoidable  delay  occurred. On 20 July L&G first had notice that the 
kitchen walls  and floors were  damp, but it took until 5 September (six and a half weeks) to agree the 
new scope of works with the contractor, and arrange for a specialist contractor to attend the property 
to install the drying equipment. I think that this led to an avoidable delay  of at least  two weeks.  Once 
the kitchen had been  dried, it took a further two and a half weeks for the works to be completed. And 
Mrs B said her son had to come to the property to do some minor  repairs to the works which  she felt 
werent carried out to a high standard. On 11 January 2019 L&G offered Mrs B a further £250 
compensation for the further delays and inconvenience  shed suffered in having her claim  finally dealt 
with. 
Ref: DRN40044614In considering the distress  and inconvenience caused  to Mrs B, by the delays in L&G settling her 
claim, I havent  included delays that were due to factors  that L&G wasnt responsible for, for example 
when Mrs B was admitted to hospital for a major operation at the end of August.  
Having given  careful  consideration to the timeline  of events  for Mrs Bs claim, I currently think that 
there were approximately  two months of avoidable delays over the two periods in which  works were  
carried out on the property,  which caused her distress and inconvenience.  I also agree with our 
investigator that L&G could have done  more to support Mrs B, given  her vulnerabilities,  which may 
have reduced  the stress Mrs B tells us she suffered in making a large  number of calls which often 
werent returned.  I accept that a case manager was appointed but I havent seen any evidence  of 
support the case manager  offered to Mrs B.
Taking everything into account, in addition to the £350 L&G have already  offered Mrs B, Im currently  
minded to require L&G to pay Mrs B a further £150 compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience shes suffered while the works have been carried out. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  in this provisional decision, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint  and 
require Legal & General  Insurance Limited to pay Mrs B £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced as a result of the way its handled her claim.
I now invite  Mrs B and Legal & General Insurance Limited to provide any final arguments or evidence 
theyd like me to consider before I issue my final decision  on this complaint.
Carolyn Harwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4004461