K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr C says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has said that this sale took place in a meeting. But the evidence Ive seen suggests 
that this was a postal  sale. I say this because the application form appears to be a generic 
one thats been addressed to Mr C. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Cs credit card application  form. On this form theres a section 
headed Cardholder Payment Protection.  A tick has been placed  next to the option  to 
add PPI and Mr C has signed  the overall application. But, Mr C says that it wasnt  
him that ticked the form and he was never aware  that hed taken PPI.  
Ive thought carefully about this, but I havent  seen  strong enough evidence to 
support what Mr C has said. For Mr Cs recollections to be correct, the tick would 
have had to have been added after he completed the form and sent it back to Tesco. 
Ive seen no evidence  at all that this is what happened. 
Ive also considered that Tesco have  said that the PPI policy terms and conditions  
would have been sent to Mr C following his application and Ive seen some of Mr Cs 
monthly credit card statements that show PPI on the account.  
If the PPI had been added without Mr C realising, I think that he would reasonably  
have questioned  much sooner than he did why he was being charged  for PPI. But 
I havent seen  evidence that he did, and PPI remained on the account for over two 
years.
On balance, based on the evidence,  I think that the PPI was presented as optional  
and Mr C chose to take it out. Given that so much  time has now passed,  its possible 
that Mr C may not recall everything clearly  now and there are other  inconsistencies in 
his recollections. For example this sale didnt take place in a meeting as Mr C has 
said.
Tesco didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr C got the information  he needed to decide if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
he was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would 
Ref: DRN47641302have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
 Which means Tesco  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Tesco will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Tesco didnt tell Mr C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has basically  offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
Ive thought about everything Tesco has said - including what  theyve said about not needing 
PPI because of his existing means of making his repayments if he was unwell and unable  to 
work or if he was made unemployed. Mr C has said that he had some sick pay through his 
employer, but this policy would have paid out for a lot longer (up to 12 months)  than Mr Cs 
sick pay entitlement (9 weeks) would have lasted.  
Ive noted that Mr C has said about  being  able to rely on his wife to help him, but 
circumstances can change and Mr Cs wife may not have  been in a position to help when 
needed.
Mr C has said that he had some  savings as well as some shares and some premium  bonds.  
But having  this policy would mean  that Mr C wouldnt need to rely on his savings to make his 
credit card repayments if he was made unemployed or unwell and unable  to work. I also 
think that the shares and premium bonds may not have been instantly accessible when 
needed. 
The value of shares can also change so I still think that Mr C could have found the PPI 
useful if he ever needed to claim on it and it would mean that he could leave his investments 
intact.
So these points dont  change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Tesco has to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Tesco should  also pay back to Mr C any extra interest they paid 
because of that.
Tesco should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr C the difference  between 
what Mr C owes  and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco  should also pay Mr C 8%* simple  interest  if he 
paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN47641303my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019. 
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4764130