K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Paymentsense Limited  mis-sold her a merchant  acquiring  agreement 
and a terminal hire agreement,  and later reneged on a promise to cancel them.
background
In August  2018  Mrs H was sold a merchant hire agreement with Paymentsense,  and a 
terminal hire agreement with a third party called FDR Ltd, which works in partnership  with 
Paymentsense. Both agreements were  sold on the same occasion  by Paymentsenses 
salesman. The terminal hire agreement was to last for a term of three years,  but Mrs H says 
that the salesman told her it would be one year. That is in dispute, but it is not disputed that 
when she complained to the salesman in September, he accepted  that there had been  a 
misunderstanding and he told her the contract would be cancelled.  The terminal  was never 
installed, and the salesman took it away. Mrs H cancelled the direct debit by which  her 
monthly payments  were to be made. But the contract was not cancelled, and so arrears  
began to accumulate.
Paymentsense later told Mrs H that cancellation would not be possible after all, because the 
cancellation period had expired. It said the salesman had not been trained in the 
cancellation procedure,  and he had not been  authorised to promise  that the agreements  
would be cancelled for free, or to take the terminal away.  In January 2019, Paymentsense 
said that if Mrs H continued with the agreement, it would let her have the first three months 
for free, and waive the rest of her arrears. But otherwise, she would not be able to cancel the 
agreement until 18 months had elapsed, and she would have to pay a cancellation fee and 
her arrears.  So Mrs H brought  this complaint to our Service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that the agreement Mrs H had signed, 
and a letter  sent to her a few days later about her cancellation rights, had made  it clear  that 
the agreement  was for 36 months. It also set out the cancellation process, which  she hadnt 
followed. Instead, she had sent a text message to the salesman. So he didnt think  to would 
be fair to tell Paymentsense to cancel the contract now.  Mrs H asked for an ombudsman to 
review her case.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
First of all, there is no evidence, other than Mrs Hs own recollection, that she was ever told 
that the contract would  last for only one year. The salesman denies that he said that. Mrs H 
told Paymentsense that she had a CCTV recording (which I assume includes audio) which 
would prove  her case, and Paymentsense  agreed  to review her complaint if she provided it. 
But she has not provided this evidence to Paymentsense or to our Service.  She has 
provided the text messages she exchanged with the salesman, but in none  of these does the 
salesman accept that he told her the contract  would last for one year.
In any event, the hire agreement said that it was for a term of 36 months. Mrs H had the 
opportunity to read this before she signed it, but even if she didnt, she had several days  
afterwards in which she could have read the agreement and then cancelled it if she wasnt  
satisfied with it. Four days  after signing it, she was sent a letter  which summarised the key 
terms  including  the 36 month term  and setting out what  she had to do to cancel the 
Ref: DRN41037442agreement. The deadline for cancellation was five days after she received that letter. It said 
she had to send  her request in writing to a particular address, and included  a form which had 
already been filled in for her, ready for her to send to that address. The address was 
repeated on the form. All of this information was prominent, and not buried in small print.  So 
I think it was clear what she had to do, and she didnt  do it.
For the above reasons, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable of me to order  
Paymentsense to cancel the agreements. I did still consider upholding this complaint on the 
ground that the salesman  misled Mrs H into thinking  that the agreements would be 
cancelled, and for not reminding her about the correct cancellation procedure. That was 
clearly an error on his part, and Paymentsense is clearly responsible for it. But I think  that 
the offer Paymentsense made  in its final response letter,  dated  10 January, was fair 
compensation for that issue, so I wont  require  it to do more. (I know she rejected that offer, 
but she had a duty to mitigate  her loss, and so I think she ought  to have accepted  it and let 
Paymentsense install the terminal. That wouldnt have prevented her from bringing this 
complaint to our Service.)
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4103744