K821x#15Complaint
Mr G has complained that MCE Insurance Company Limited (MCE)  didnt register  a claim 
under his motorcycle insurance policy, instead referring him to third parties,  which has 
delayed the settlement of his claim.
Background
Mr G holds a motorcycle  insurance  policy with MCE. In June 2018 Mr G called MCE as hed 
been involved in an accident and wanted  to claim under his insurance.  He reported damage 
to his motorcycle and some injuries. In the call Mr G told MCE he believed  the third party  
was at fault. So, MCE passed  the details of his claim over to a solicitor, who Ill refer to as 
F, to handle  his personal injury claim and a claims  management  company, who Ill call P, 
to handle the claim for the repairs to his motorcycle. 
Mr G got in touch with MCE several  times  after this as he was unhappy with the progress 
made on his claim. In February 2019 Mr G was informed by F and P that they wouldnt be 
pursuing things  further as the third party was disputing  liability  and they didnt think  the 
claims would  succeed.  So, Mr G complained to MCE   he didnt think F or P had handled  his 
claim well. He said the claim  hadnt been  settled and hed incurred costs, such  as 
purchasing a car, which he wanted  to claim back.  As Mr G believed  F and P had been  
instructed by MCE under his insurance policy, he believed  MCE should take responsibility 
for their failings.
MCE advised Mr G that he hadnt  made a claim under his insurance policy  it explained F 
and P were  independent third parties working on his behalf, not MCE. It said Mr G had 
agreed to not make  a claim under his insurance  because he believed the third party was at 
fault and he wanted to claim  directly from them instead.
Mr G disputed this and referred his complaint to our service. He said he believed hed made 
a non-fault claim  under his comprehensive insurance policy and at no time was it made clear 
to him that F or P were  independent third parties.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She told Mr G we couldnt look at the service provided 
by F or P under his complaint about  MCE because  they were  acting independently.  But, she 
thought MCE  hadnt  made  it clear enough  to Mr G that using the services of F or P meant he 
wouldnt be making a claim  under his insurance  policy with MCE. Had it done so, she 
thought Mr G wouldve  chosen to claim through MCE.  So, she recommended  MCE should 
pay Mr G £250 for the trouble and upset  caused.  As MCE was now considering Mr Gs 
claim, she thought  it would be considering  Mr Gs additional costs as part of it.
Mr G didnt accept this  he said a much higher sum should be awarded in light of his costs 
and the delays. MCE also didnt accept the investigators view. It said Mr G had chosen to 
claim against the third party instead of his insurance. So, the complaint was referred to me.
I contacted MCE to advise that I agreed the complaint should be upheld  but that I thought 
£400 was a more appropriate sum of compensation. MCE didnt agree and provided some 
additional call recordings which it felt showed Mr G was aware hed chosen not to use his 
insurance policy.
I listened to the extra  calls and thought they demonstrated further that Mr G was unaware F 
and P were  not acting on MCEs behalf in connection with an insurance claim. I said that this 
Ref: DRN46517772was particularly clear  in a call he had with MCE in November  2018 when he expressed how 
unhappy he was with F and P. I thought the agent  had the opportunity to correct Mr Gs 
understanding of the relationship between MCE, F and P at this point but they hadnt done 
so. Instead, the agent told Mr G he would pass on the feedback. I said I thought this had 
contributed to the delays. I explained  I thought £400 was reasonable in the circumstances as 
MCEs failure to explain  things properly had meant Mr Gs claim was still unresolved more 
than a year after the accident, during which time hed been without his motorcycle.
MCE accepted  that it hadnt been clear  enough with Mr G about the fact that engaging F and 
P meant he wouldnt be claiming  on his insurance policy. However, MCE thought £300 was 
a more appropriate amount of compensation as they still thought Mr G wouldve most  likely 
pursued a claim against the third party if it had explained things more clearly.
As no agreement could be reached, Im now providing my final decision on the matter.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it.
MCE accepts that it didnt clearly explain to Mr G that using  F or P meant  that a claim 
wouldnt be made under his insurance policy. However, it disagrees about  the impact  this 
had. It believes Mr G still wouldnt have claimed under his policy  as he believed the third 
party was at fault. It said he couldnt  have  pursued  a non-fault  claim directly  against the third 
party using his comprehensive insurance cover. But Mr G asserts  that when he first called 
MCE he specifically called  to make a claim under his policy  and if everything had been  
properly explained  to him he still wouldve chosen to do so.
Ive considered this carefully but I still think Mr G wouldve chosen to claim on his insurance  
if hed fully understood things. I think this is demonstrated by the initial  call Mr G made to 
MCE in June 2018. When Mr G called the first thing he said was that he wanted to make  an 
insurance claim as hed had an accident the day before.  However, the agent asked again 
whether he wanted  to claim from his policy and later asked whether he wanted to claim from 
the third party  directly. It was only after this was introduced by the agent that Mr G thought 
this might be a good  idea.
In the call Mr G reported  he had a concussion and thought the third party  was at fault based 
on what he could remember, having woken up in the ambulance. In light of these facts it 
doesnt seem reasonable to me that this avenue was introduced by the agent at all given 
that Mr Gs recollection of the incident could be compromised,  not least  without some very 
clear warnings. Overall,  I dont think Mr G wouldve  asked to claim from the third party 
directly and not use his insurance policy if this idea hadnt been introduced to him by the 
agent.
I appreciate that Mr G felt quite strongly that he wasnt  at fault for the accident  this is 
apparent in several calls. And I think  its clear he believed  he could make a claim against the 
third party using his insurance policy. But if it had been explained  to him that he couldnt do 
this, I dont think he wouldve agreed  to proceed with the non-fault  claim using F and P. This 
was because in the first call, he disclosed that liability was already in dispute and that there  
wasnt any CCTV or witnesses. In circumstances like this it would be difficult for him to 
succeed in pursuing a non-fault  claim against the third party and I wouldve expected the 
agent to make him aware  of this. If Mr G had been  in possession of these facts,  Im satisfied 
Ref: DRN46517773he wouldve chosen  to claim under his comprehensive insurance  instead as he wanted the 
matter resolved as quickly as possible  so he could use his bike again.
Turning to the impact  of this, its clear to me that the resolution of Mr Gs claim has been 
delayed. I cant hold MCE responsible for any service failings attributable to F or P. But 
I think Mr Gs claim wouldve most  likely been  resolved by now if the claim had been  made  
on his insurance  as per his initial request.  I also think MCE delayed matters  further  by not 
correcting Mr Gs understanding of the claim and the relationship  between  F, P and MCE 
when it had the opportunity to do so. This has left Mr G without the use of his bike for longer 
than necessary.
Overall, I think £400 is reasonable compensation for the impact of the service  provided by 
MCE. I know Mr G feels that this sum is too low, as he says hes incurred costs as a result of 
using F and P to settle his claim.  But I think MCE should consider whether those costs are 
covered under his insurance policy when  it considers his claim. If Mr G is unhappy with 
MCEs decision relating  to his claim, he has a further right of complaint to it and our service.
If Mr G thinks hes been  disadvantaged  by the service provided by F or P, he should  
complain to those businesses directly. If hes unhappy with their responses, he may be able 
to refer his complaint(s)  to the Claims Management  Ombudsman.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding this complaint.
I require MCE Insurance  Company Limited to pay Mr G £400 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused by the service it provided  to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4651777