K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains that Close  Brothers  Limited (CBL)  trading  as Close  Brothers Motor Finance 
(CBMF) took too long to refund  an overpaid direct debit.  She would like a payment of £80 to 
compensate her for money she says she had to borrow as a result.
background
Mrs G says she settled her conditional  sale agreement with CBMF on 18 April 2018 by 
making a payment to clear the outstanding balance. But she says that CBMF took a further 
payment of £92.44 on 30 April 2018.
Mrs G says she called CBMF  on 17 May 2018  and says she was told the payment would be 
refunded within three days  but wasnt. Mrs G says she had to ring twice more (on 24 and 25 
May 2018) before she finally got the refund.
She says as a result  she was left out of pocket and had to borrow  money to pay bills.
CBMF said it had no records that Mrs G had called the business prior to 24 May 2018. And 
that when she did call it then arranged the appropriate refund. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. She found that CBMF made  a mistake in taking the 
direct debit. And that Mrs G had contacted  CBMF  three times about  this before the matter 
was resolved.
She recommended that CBMF pay Mrs G £50 for the distress and inconvenience.
Mrs G accepted this view but CBMF didnt.  It said there was no proof that Mrs G contacted it 
on 17 May 2018. Its system notes showed Mrs G contacted the business on 24 May 2018 
when it set up the instruction to make the refund.
Our adjudicator considered these comments but didnt change  her view.  She felt that CBMF 
should have realised an overpayment had been taken and attempted to reimburse  Mrs G. 
She also found Mrs G account  of her contact with CBMF persuasive.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mrs G paid off her outstanding balance  in full in April 2018. Or that 
CBMF then made a mistake in taking a further  payment of £92.44 on 30 April 2018 which  it 
shouldnt have done.
As I understand it Mrs G has now received a refund  for the overpayment. So the main issue 
for me to decide are the circumstances around the refund and what  compensation, if any, is 
appropriate.
Its not clear to me if Mrs G contacted  CBMF  prior to 24 May 2018 or not. She has given us 
some evidence that she did make some  calls to the same telephone no. But CBMF say 
although the area code is correct the actual number isnt for its business. I have also seen its 
Ref: DRN47109882customer notes which record Mrs G call of 24 May 2018 but not any previous ones   but the 
call note does refer to previous  calls Mrs G says she made.
I think it unlikely Mrs G would have said she had contacted CBMF with the detail thats 
logged in the call of 24 May 2018 if she hadnt done so. But if that were the case  I dont 
know why the two previous calls werent noted in the customer contact notes.
However I think the main  issue for me is that having paid off the balance  on her agreement  
in full CBMF  made a mistake in taking  a further  payment.  And irrelevant of how many times 
Mrs G contacted CBMF about  this she had to initiate getting  a refund. I think  the business  
should have realised it made a mistake and contacted Mrs G direct.
Mrs G says as a result of the payment being  taken she had to borrow  money  to cover bills. 
She hasnt  given us any evidence  of this so I dont feel I can take that into account.
But I do think the £50 compensation that our adjudicator recommended is fair in the 
circumstances. CBMF made a mistake. And Mrs G had to contact the business  to resolve 
this which  I do think put her to some  inconvenience.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Close  Brothers  Limited (CBL) trading as Close  Brothers Motor 
Finance (CBMF) should pay Mrs G £50 for distress and inconvenience.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4710988