K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold a finance  agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc.
background
In December 2015 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a fixed  sum loan PCP 
agreement.
Mr M thought hed entered into a PCP agreement which contained  rights  to voluntarily 
terminate the agreement.  However, he discovered  that instead  hed entered  into a fixed sum 
loan agreement which didnt offer the same termination rights as other PCP agreements  and 
only allowed him to voluntary  surrender  the agreement.
In its final response,  Santander said that during discussions  with the supplying dealer, Mr M 
was provided with pre-contractual information and was fully informed about  the type of 
agreement he was entering into.
Mr M wasnt happy with Santanders  response. He said hed been led to believe that he was 
entering into a PCP agreement. He wants to voluntarily terminate the agreement.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said it was more  likely than not that the 
agreement was presented to Mr M as a PCP and that he was expecting the agreement to 
contain a voluntary termination clause. Because of this, the investigator felt that the 
agreement had been mis-sold. She recommended that Santander cancel  the agreement.
Santander didnt  agree. It said it was clear from the finance documentation that the 
agreement was a fixed sum loan PCP. It said the agreement was sold as a PCP agreement 
because the customer  had the same  options at the end of the agreement but that it wasnt  
secured against  the car. Santander said Mr M was fully informed at the point of sale and was 
given an opportunity to read the documents before  he entered into the agreement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
 that is, what I consider  is most  likely to have happened in light of the available  evidence 
and the wider circumstances.
Mr M went to the dealership to acquire a car. He had previously had a PCP agreement  from 
a different financial provider and was aware  of the terms  which PCPs generally  included, 
specifically the option to voluntarily terminate.
Mr M says he initially had discussions with the dealership about a PCP agreement.  Neither 
of the salesmen who spoke to Mr M works for the dealership any longer, so it hasnt been 
possible to obtain  their version  of events. Nor has the dealership been able to provide any 
contemporaneous notes of those discussions. 
Ref: DRN45287412Following the discussions  Mr M was provided  with a sales agency agreement  headed  PCP  
Advantage. This references the agreement being  of a PCP nature but doesnt mention the 
words fixed sum loan.
Based on Mr Ms account of the discussions he had with the salesmen and the documents  
which were provided to Mr M, I find it reasonable that Mr M thought  the agreement he was 
entering into would be a PCP agreement with the right to voluntarily terminate.
Santander has said that it was clear  from the agreement itself that this was a fixed  sum loan 
PCP. However, given that Mr M signed  a document  which included terms which one would  
generally expect  to find in a PCP, such as annual mileage and a purchase option price, I 
think its reasonable that Mr M believed he was entering into a PCP agreement. 
Ive taken into account Santanders comments that Mr M had the opportunity to read the 
agreement before signing it. Mr M says that he was asked to sign the agreement  
electronically. I dont think  this of itself would have prevented Mr M from reading the 
agreement, but because  of the discussions which had already taken place, and taking into 
account the fact that the agreement contained terms which one would generally  expect  to 
find in a PCP, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that the agreement was presented to 
Mr M as a PCP. 
I accept that the agreement is called a fixed sum loan agreement.  However, theres nothing 
to suggest that this was what Mr M asked for when he visited the dealership,  and theres 
nothing to suggest that the difference between a PCP and a fixed sum loan PCP was 
explained to him.
My view is supported by Mr Ms comment that the dealership contacted him about upgrading 
the car and was itself initially under the impression that Mr M had voluntary termination 
rights.
Because the option to voluntarily terminate was a key factor  for Mr M, I dont think he would 
have entered  into the agreement if he had known it didnt include this option. Based on the 
information which had been given to Mr M at the point  of supply, Im satisfied he thought he 
was entering into a PCP agreement  with a right to voluntarily  terminate.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, Im of the view that the 
agreement was mis-sold to Mr M.
Mr M should be put back in the position he would have been in had he not entered into the 
agreement. He should be allowed to return the car with nothing further owing. I wont be 
asking Santander  to refund any of Mr Ms monthly payments because  hes had use of the 
car.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr M.
Refund the deposit of £1,239.50  paid by Mr M together with 8% simple interest from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
Remove any adverse  information relating to the agreement from Mr Ms credit file
Ref: DRN45287413Pay £150 to Mr M for trouble and upset
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4528741