K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained that she was mis-sold an income protection insurance policy by 
Countrywide Principal  Services  Limited.
background
In 2007, while in the process of obtaining a mortgage, Mrs H met with an adviser from 
Countrywide. The adviser recommended that Mrs H take out an income protection  insurance 
policy. Mrs H agreed to the recommendation.
In about 2013, at the time she ended the mortgage, Mrs H cancelled the policy.
In 2017, Mrs H complained the policy had been  mis-sold.  She said the adviser had told her 
she should take out the policy because otherwise the bank might view her as too great  risk 
to grant  her a mortgage, even though her father was acting as a guarantor for the mortgage. 
She said she now understood that taking out the policy would have had no effect on whether 
her mortgage was approved. She therefore  felt shed been mis-led at the time of sale.
Countrywide didnt  uphold her complaint. Mrs H therefore referred her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  He considered the 
policy had been  suitable for Mrs H. He considered that even if the adviser had implied  the 
policy was necessary to secure the mortgage, there had been nothing to prevent Mrs H from 
cancelling the policy once the mortgage  had started.
Mrs H didnt accept the adjudicators findings. She said that she hadnt  wanted to take out 
the policy but the adviser had insisted  that failing to do so would likely result  in the mortgage 
application being declined; she said she now understood  this was incorrect and the 
mortgage provider  would  have been unaware  of whether shed taken out the policy.  She said 
that she hadnt cancelled the policy sooner  because  she had mistakenly believed the policy  
and mortgage  were linked.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The adviser carried out a fact find which showed  that Mrs H was concerned to protect her 
income in the event  of being  unable to work  due to illness or injury.  The adviser 
recommended she take out an income protection insurance policy which I consider to be a 
suitable recommendation. The adviser  noted that Mrs Hs annual  earnings at the time of sale 
were £14,000 plus commission and recommended a sum insured of £181 per week  which  I 
consider to be appropriate. The adviser noted  that Mrs H had no entitlement  to sick pay from 
her employer and recommended a deferred  period of four weeks,  which  was the minimum  
allowed. Again,  I consider  this to be suitable.
Im satisfied that Mrs H had sufficient information to decide whether or not to accept the 
advisers recommendations.  In the end, Mrs H agreed to the recommendation to take out an 
income protection policy but chose to extend the deferred period to 13 weeks,  which 
reduced the cost of the policy. 
Ref: DRN49327612Mrs H says she made the adviser  aware  she was about to change jobs.  The adviser noted 
that Mrs H expected to be earning in excess of £30,000 within the next few years  but this 
didnt mean  the policy was unsuitable at the time it was sold.  Mrs H says that her new 
employer would provide her with sick pay but unless this would have lasted for more than 13 
weeks (and Mrs H has provided no evidence to this effect) it wouldnt have rendered the 
policy unsuitable.
I recognise that Mrs Hs father  was acting as a guarantor for the mortgage. However, I dont  
think this means the policy was unsuitable for Mrs H as she may still have wanted to protect 
her income in the event of being  medically  unable to work.
The paperwork for the mortgage made clear that the only insurance which was a condition  of 
the mortgage was buildings insurance. And Mrs H has acknowledged that she wasnt misled 
into believing it was compulsory for her to take out the income protection  policy.
The basis  of Mrs Hs complaint is that the adviser  misled her into taking  out the policy  by 
falsely implying that her mortgage application  was likely to fail if she didnt do so. I dont have 
any evidence beyond  Mrs Hs testimony  that the adviser said this. And I dont have any 
evidence beyond Mrs Hs testimony to show that the mortgage  provider didnt take the policy 
into account when  considering whether to grant  the mortgage loan. Furthermore, Mrs H 
didnt cancel the policy immediately on securing her mortgage but continued with it for 
several years. And while Mrs H has explained  why she didnt cancel the policy  sooner, the 
fact is she was protected by suitable  insurance  for the time the policy was in operation.
It may well be that the adviser did put pressure  on Mrs H in the way she describes and that 
the adviser knew the information was incorrect. But in the absence of any other evidence  to 
support Mrs Hs account, and given  that the cover was suitable for her, I cant  reasonably 
conclude that she was mis-sold the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4932761