K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2010. Miss J says Capital  One (Europe) Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  agree that this policy was sold during a telephone call. Capital One have told us 
that the PPI was sold during an activation  call after Miss J had applied for a credit card 
online. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Unfortunately due to the time thats  passed, a copy  of the call recording, call notes or 
even a call transcript arent available. So I dont know what  was discussed during the 
telephone call. 
Miss J has said that she was pressured into taking PPI. But Ive not seen persuasive 
evidence to support  what shes said.
Ive considered a copy of Miss Js credit card agreement form. This is important as it 
seems that Miss J applied  for the credit card online and then signed the credit 
agreement, not accredit card application - without PPI being  added.  So when the 
telephone call took place, Miss J had already been approved for the credit  card.  
If Miss Js recollection of events was correct, I think she would quite reasonably  
questioned the pressure  she felt as her credit  card agreement described  PPI as 
Optional Capital  One payment Protection Insurance 
   
Ive also considered what we know more widely about how PPI was sold during this 
type of phone call by Capital One around the time the policy  was taken out. I think  its 
more likely than not that Capital One followed their normal sales process and the PPI 
was presented as optional  before Miss J agreed to take it out.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss J so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make  sure Miss J got the information  she needed to 
decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss J about  the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  
this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Ref: DRN40619232So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the 
cover. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Miss J.
But Capital One will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss J because : 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss J about  that. Because  Capital  One didnt 
tell Miss J, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has basically offered  to pay back the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss J has said - including  what  shes  said about her 
circumstances at the time of sale and returning to work part time.  But I dont think this means 
she wouldnt  have found the policy useful. Under  the terms of this policy Miss J would still be 
covered and be able to claim  even if she did begin to work part time after her maternity 
leave. 
Ive also considered Miss Js existing  means of making her repayments  if she was unwell 
and unable to work  or if she was made unemployed. The PPI policy  would have paid out for 
longer than Miss J received full sick pay for and although her partner may have wanted to 
help her, they may not have been  in a position  to when  needed  as circumstances can 
change.
So these points dont  change my decision.
I appreciate that this wont be the outcome that Miss J wanted and Im sorry to hear of the 
change in her circumstances, but I wish her well in her future.
what the business needs  to do
Capital One has to pay back to Miss J any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Capital One should  also pay back  to Miss J any extra  interest 
she paid because of that.
Capital One should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Miss J the difference  
between what Miss J owes  and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. 
Capital One should also pay Miss J 8%* simple  interest if she paid off their credit  card at 
some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss J can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc does  not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss J.
Ref: DRN40619233But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Miss J any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss J to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4061923