K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance  Limited has turned down the claim he 
made under his household insurance.
background
In November 2018 Mr A said he lost his necklace  and pendant while he was shopping. So 
he made a claim on his household insurance policy. Mr A said the necklace  was bought by 
his parents in the country where they live and then gifted  to him. His brother picked up the 
necklace during  a visit to their parents and delivered  the necklace  to him, about four months 
before he lost it.
He showed Lloyds the receipt his parents were given when they bought the necklace. But 
Lloyds didnt think Mr A had done  enough to prove ownership and possession  of the 
necklace, so declined his claim. Mr A didnt accept  this and asked us to look into his 
complaint. 
Our investigator thought the additional  evidence Lloyds has requested was reasonable in the 
circumstances. But Mr A didnt agree, so the case has been  passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The question I need to consider here is whether Lloyds unfairly declined Mr As claim and so 
Ive looked first at the policy terms and schedule. Having done  so I can see Mr A added the 
necklace as a specified item to his existing household insurance  policy in August 2018.  And 
the policy provides  cover  for accidental loss of such items.
But, as is usual with this type of policy, the terms and conditions also explain that Mr A must 
be able to prove and substantiate his loss and includes some examples of the sort of 
information it might require him to provide. And, in light of their investigations, Lloyds didnt 
think the receipt Mr A provided was sufficient  to show he owned it and had it in his 
possession. 
Often, insurers will accept photos of lost or stolen items as proof  of ownership or possession. 
And that might have  been helpful in this case.  But Mr A said hed recently lost his mobile 
phone along  with all his recent  photos.  And he doesnt seem to have had anything  else to 
show hed actually received the necklace  to which the receipt related. So Lloyds asked for 
evidence to show his brother had visited the country  where their parents  lived and then 
visited Mr A in the UK.
Mr A has always said that too much  time has passed since  his brother took the flights for him 
to prove  he visited. Hes also said, more  recently,  that hes tried to obtain  this information but 
has been told that travel companies only keep records  for six months.  It seems  to me Lloyds 
has always been willing to reconsider  the claim and it has invited Mr A to share the 
information hes recently obtained.  But it has also, helpfully I think, explained  its 
understanding of legislation  and aviation  regulations (which appear  to have been in force  
when Mr As brother flew into the UK with the necklace) which  require such information to 
Ref: DRN40165622retained for longer than six months. And if Mr A has any queries about this Id encourage 
him to contact Lloyds  to discuss the matter further.
In the circumstances, taking everything into account, I dont think  Lloyds unfairly declined 
Mr As claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4016562