K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland  Plc (Bank of Scotland) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out by Mr B in August 1998. The policy 
was added to Mr Bs credit card account after he sent in an application  in the post.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint for the following reasons:
 I am persuaded  Bank of Scotland made  Mr B aware that the PPI was optional and he 
chose to take it. I say this because  I can see on the application form he completed, that 
he signed separately to have  the insurance, in a separate box where Bank  of Scotland 
offered PPI. So after seeing this, I think that Mr B was given  a choice to have PPI on 
the form and he agreed  to it by signing for it. 
 As this was a postal  sale,  Bank  of Scotland didnt provide advice to Mr B so it didnt  
need to ensure  that the policy was suitable  for him. But it did have to ensure that the 
information it gave  Mr B was clear,  fair and not misleading  so that he could make  an 
informed choice  about the insurance. 
 When looking at the information provided on the form, I am not sure that it did. But 
even if it had provided  clear information to Mr B, I dont think it would have made a 
difference as I think he would have taken the PPI policy  anyway. 
 I say this because,  when  looking  at Mr Bs circumstances at the time,  I think  he would 
have found the cover  useful. He has told us that he was entitled  to at least  6 months 
full sick pay with his employer at the time of sale, but the policy would have  provided  a 
useful benefit in a difficult time and for longer. The policy  would have paid in addition to 
his sick pay, for up to an extended period of 12 months  if he couldnt work. So I think  
he would have found at least some benefit  in having the cover.
 I dont think on this occasion Mr B was affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
within the policy such as those given for pre-existing medical  conditions.  
 Im not sure if the costs were clearly  disclosed to Mr B. But I think he wouldve taken 
the policy  anyway even if they were  for the same reasons  that I have already given. 
The PPI policy  was competitively  priced and affordable.   
Ref: DRN43974542So I dont think Bank of Scotland mis-sold Mr B this PPI policy. This means Bank of Scotland 
dont have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. But Bank of Scotland has paid back  
some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr B about  that. Because Bank  of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Mark Richardson 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4397454