K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  payment  protection insurance (PPI) to him 
alongside a loan in 2001. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr G didnt agree with that view 
and he asked an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
I issued a provisional decision in this matter  because I could see there had been some  
confusion surrounding  this complaint at adjudication stage. It was fair for me to make clear  
the account Mr G had complained about  and to give the parties the opportunity to comment. 
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision, nor have I been provided with any 
further information or evidence to consider. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
My provisional decision is attached and it forms part of my final decision. As neither party 
has provided any further evidence, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
So, I havent upheld  the complaint about  mis-sold PPI. That means Lloyds doesnt have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G. 
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr G, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr G. 
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Ref: DRN47910422Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI)  to him alongside  
a loan in 2001. 
background
As I said above, there has been some confusion in this complaint. Mr G has taken out a number of 
loans and PPI policies with Lloyds. When  our adjudicator looked initially at this complaint, he thought  
Ref: DRN47910423we didnt have power to look at it because  it had been brought too late. Mr Gs representatives 
challenged that view and said they thought our adjudicator had looked  at the wrong account. Our 
adjudicator looked again and then said he didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. 
Through his representatives, Mr G disagreed with that view. To be clear, it appears to me that the 
matter under dispute is about account ending 2211  this was a loan for £3,000 that Mr G had taken  
out in August 2001. I can see from the initial complaint letter that the representative sent to us that 
they made reference to account ending 2211  only. And as far as I can see Lloyds has not objected  to 
us considering the complaint  for this account. 
So the matter has been passed to me to consider whether the PPI sold alongside the loan with 
account ending  2211 was mis-sold. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding this case .  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but as things stand, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. I think  the offer 
Lloyds made  to repay some of the commission it received from his PPI premiums is a fair way to 
settle this complaint. Ill set out the reasons  why below. 
The PPI appears to have been sold to Mr G during a meeting  he had with Lloyds. I cant know what  
was said during  that meeting. So to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive looked  at 
what Mr G remembers about the meeting. And Ive also considered the paperwork that is available 
from the time. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Mr G would  have known this PPI policy was optional. Mr 
G told us that the adviser who sold him the PPI said that hed have a better chance of his loan being  
approved if he bought the PPI policy. 
Ive thought about what Mr G said on this point. Im mindful that this cover was sold around 18 years 
ago and it is difficult  to recall precisely  what happened such a long time ago. I can see from the 
paperwork that PPI is described as an optional product on more than one occasion. Theres nothing  
on that document to indicate  that preference would be given to 
Mr G if he took PPI. And so I think its likely it would  have  been made  clear to him during  that meeting 
that he didnt have to buy this policy if he didnt want it. 
Lloyds advised Mr G to buy this cover. So it had to make sure the policy was suitable  for his needs. 
To help me decide whether  it was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And 
Ive also thought  about  what Mr G told us about his personal circumstances from that time.
Mr G had bought a single premium PPI policy. So that meant  he had to borrow extra  on top of his loan 
to pay for it. He also had to pay interest on the extra he borrowed. But I can see that if hed had to 
make a claim, his loan repayments would  have  been  covered  for up to 12 months if he was made 
redundant or until the loan was repaid if he became unwell. 
Mr G told us that hed have received some sick pay from his employer  if he was out of work. But from 
what he told us, I think the PPI would have paid out for longer than his full sick pay would  have lasted.  
Mr G also told us that he had some savings  he could  have used towards  his repayments.  But I can 
see from the PPI questionnaire that Mr G told us he had used some of this loan for his essential  every 
day spending.  I think if Mr G had savings as he recalls, its unlikely  hed have needed a loan for his 
essential expenditure. 
As I said above, Mr G bought a single premium policy. So if hed repaid his loan early, I dont think 
hed have got a pro rata refund. What I mean by that is that if he paid his loan off half way through the 
Ref: DRN47910424term, he wouldnt  have got half of his PPI premium back. At that time,  I dont think  the evidence 
suggested Mr G intended  or was likely to pay his loan off early. So I dont think the single premium 
was unsuitable for him. 
Mr G told us he was in good  health when he took this PPI policy out. So I dont think  hed have been 
affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent seen anything  unusual 
about his circumstances that would  have stopped  him from making a successful  claim if he needed  to. 
Overall, I think  the PPI Lloyds sold probably  was suitable  for Mr G. Even  so, Lloyds  had to make sure 
it gave him enough information about the cover so he could decide  for himself  whether  it was right for 
him.  That information had to be fair, clear and not misleading. I accept  it is possible  that Lloyds didnt 
tell Mr G everything it should have done about the cover. But Ive set out above how the PPI could 
have been helpful for him if he was out of work.  So I dont  think more or better information  would have 
put him off buying the cover. 
As I said above, Im sorry to disappoint Mr G. But as things  stand, I dont plan to uphold the complaint 
with regard  to the mis-sale. Which means Lloyds doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr G. 
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Mr G about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back  the amount of commission and profit  share  that was above 
50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
Ive provisionally decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so I dont intend to tell Lloyds  Bank PLC to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G. 
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit  share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further 
compensation. 
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 14 
April 2019 after which I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4791042