K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that National  Westminster  Bank  plc placed a fraud marker against  his name 
after fraud was identified on his account.
background
In early 2016 there were, over a period  of around  three weeks, a number of transactions  on 
Mr Rs NatWest account. These included a series of card transactions  totalling around 
£5,000  and deposits of a similar  amount. 
Mr R tried to report his card stolen, but was told that his account had already been  closed. 
When he later tried to open  an account with a different bank, he was unable to do so, 
because NatWest had placed a marker  with CIFAS, the UKs fraud alert service. 
Mr R didnt think that was fair and complained  to the bank. It said it had carried out an 
investigation at the time of the disputed transactions and decided then to close his account.  
Mr R said he was unaware  of that investigation or the outcome. 
Mr R didnt think hed been treated  fairly. He said he hadnt carried out the transactions 
himself or allowed anyone else to do so. They  were  out of character, not least because he 
was only 14 years old when they took place. To resolve things he wanted NatWest to 
remove the fraud marker. NatWest wouldnt agree to do so and Mr R complained to this 
service. 
One of our investigators  considered what Mr R and the bank had said.  She concluded 
however that it was likely  that Mr R had authorised the transactions, and so she didnt feel 
that NatWest needed  to do any more  to resolve  his complaint. Mr R didnt agree and asked 
that an ombudsman  review the case.           
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs primary concern  appears to be the CIFAS marker thats been placed against his 
name, rather than the transactions  on his account  that he says he knew nothing about.  But, 
in order to decide whether I should make  NatWest arrange for the removal of the marker,  I 
need to consider the circumstances in which  those transactions took place. 
As Ive said,  the unusual  activity on Mr Rs account continued for around three weeks,  
without him noticing  it. I can understand that he might not have checked his account in that 
time. Its possible  too that he didnt know about the payments into his account, since  they 
could have been made by anyone who had his sort code and account  number   information 
which isnt difficult to find out. But I also think the use of the account over that time suggests  
very clearly that the same people  were responsible for both the payments  into the account 
and the card transactions. 
Im satisfied the genuine card was used with the correct PIN. So whoever made the 
transactions must have been able to get hold of the card and find out the PIN. Theres  no 
credible explanation as to how that would have been possible in this case. Mr R hadnt used 
the PIN for some days before the first withdrawal, and its unlikely someone would have 
observed it and then waited to take the card.  Mr R doesnt know how his card went missing,  
Ref: DRN41270642and its surprising that he didnt notice for three weeks that he no longer had it. I note too that 
the bank wrote to Mr R about his concerns but he says he didnt receive  that letter. 
I think its very likely  that Mr Rs account  was, in effect, taken over by someone  else who 
then arranged for fraudulent payments into it in the knowledge that they would be able to 
take money out of it. It may well be that Mr R hasnt benefited from that himself, but I think  
its more likely than not, for the reasons Ive explained, that he was involved  at least in the 
sense that he allowed  his account to be used or knew that it was being  used.
As Ive indicated, it may well be that Mr R didnt profit from these  events and its possible,  
especially given his age, that he was a less than willing than willing  participant. But I do 
believe he knows rather more about what happened than hes told the bank or this service. 
But none  of that leads  me to think the bank has treated him unfairly. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require National Westminster Bank plc to do anything  further  
to resolve Mr Rs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr R to accept or reject  my decision before 17 November 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4127064