K820x#14complaint
Mr E is unhappy with what American Express Services Europe Limited (American  Express) 
has done to put things  right following his complaint about the commission it got when it sold 
him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
In 2000 Mr E took out a card with American  Express. At the same  time, he bought PPI.
In 2013, Mr E complained the policy was mis-sold.  American Express  didnt uphold the 
complaint. But in 2017, American Express wrote to Mr E to tell him he could complain about 
the commission and profit share  it got when it sold him the policy.
American Express has now offered to pay Mr E some of the cost of the policy. It worked out 
it needed to pay Mr E £161.15.
Mr E thinks  American Express should pay more   he says he got back more when he 
complained about commission  on other cards and doesnt understand why he gets so little in 
this case.
An adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought that what  American Express had offered  
was fair. Mr E didnt  agree with the adjudicator. So the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.
Based on what Ive seen,  I think American  Express has worked  out what  it needs to pay 
Mr E fairly. Ill explain why. 
American Express says it got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium)  so it should  have told Mr E about that. Because  American Express  didnt 
tell Mr E, that was unfair.
To put things right, American Express has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium.  So Ive looked  at 
whether the amount its offered is fair.
The cost of the PPI was added to a credit  card.  So I think American Express needed to 
re-work the credit card account and offer to pay back  to Mr E the difference between what he 
owed and what he would have owed if the commission  and profit  share it got hadnt been 
over 50% of the cost of the PPI. And if Mr E paid off his credit card at some point, American 
Express should also add simple interest (the rate is 8% simple per year)  to compensate Mr E 
for the time hes been  out of pocket.
Ref: DRN49668942American Express has sent us details  of how it worked out its offer. The PPI started in May 
2000, when the account opened. American  Express charged for the PPI each month  until 
November 2007.  But Mr E doesnt get all of this back. 
This is because American Express says the commission and profit share it got for the PPI 
was only more than 50% of the cost of the policy before 1 August 2001   or for the first 16 
months Mr E had the card. 
Mr E was only charged £65.11 for PPI during this period  and American Express has 
worked out that Mr E was charged an extra £33.52  in total because  of the extra  commission 
and profit share. (This also includes any PPI Mr E was charged after this period because his 
balance was higher because of the extra commission and profit share.)
American Express also worked out that it charged Mr E an extra £62.33 in interest because 
of this extra commission and profit  share. 
And because Mr E repaid his card at the end of 2007, it has added simple  interest  (the rate 
is 8%) to the extra Mr E paid. Its worked  this out to be £65.30, after tax.
So in total,  American Express has worked out it needed to pay £161.15  and I think  thats 
right.
I can understand why Mr E thinks this figure is low. But for most  of the time Mr E had the 
card, American Express says the commission and profit share was less than half the cost of 
the policy. 
Weve looked  at how American Express  has been  working this out, and based  on what  
weve seen, Ive got no reason to doubt  thats  right  so I think  Mr Es commission was less 
than half the cost of the policy for most of the time he had it. This means American Express  
doesnt need to pay Mr E back  any of the commission he paid for the PPI during this period.
In all the circumstances, I think what American Express  has offered to pay Mr E is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I think American  Express Services  Europe  Limited  has offered fair 
compensation for not telling Mr E about the commission and profit share  it got. If it hasnt 
paid this already,  it should bring  its calculation  up to date and then pay Mr E.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4966894