K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold  them  a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP) policy in 2007,  with their joint mortgage. 
background
A TMPP  is a type of protection policy which typically includes mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) together with other features,  such as life insurance and critical illness cover 
(CIC). The individual elements of the TMPP can be added or taken out as the consumer 
wishes. 
In this particular  case, Mr and Mrs H were covered for all elements of the TMPP, that is to 
say PPI, life and CIC. And the policy was split equally  between them  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
did Mr and Mrs H agree to the TMPP?
Mr and Mrs H and Halifax agree the policy was taken out during a meeting. And during that 
meeting, Halifax shouldve made Mr and Mrs H aware the TMPP was optional. 
These events were obviously some time ago now. We dont have much documentary 
evidence to refer to because Halifax no longer has any copies. This is unfortunate, but not 
particularly unusual given  how long ago the sale was.
However, Ive looked at the main points  of complaint put forward by Mr and Mrs H. The key 
one is that they were  led to believe it was mandatory  to take the TMPP to have the 
mortgage approved.  Whilst I accept  this may well be their genuine belief now, weve seen 
quite a few similar sales to this from that time period. And as a result, weve  looked in detail 
at what Halifaxs sales processes were like.
We know for example  that consumers were  normally  sent or given a letter about the types 
of cover theyd agreed to at the mortgage  interview. This usually set out that consumers, 
like Mr and Mrs H, had accepted the recommendation  to have certain,  or all, elements of 
the TMPP policy.
Halifax has been able to provide a copy of the letter about the TMPP which was sent to Mr 
and Mrs H at the time they took their mortgage out. In that letter  it explained that the policy 
could be cancelled at any time. If the policy had been mandatory  to get the mortgage  I think  
its unlikely the option to cancel it would have been available.  
We were also sent some  screenshots of Halifaxs internal computer system. Ive seen  
quite a few of these  before and I also know from experience  that they show, as in this case,  
that Mr and Mrs H were  asked several questions  relating to the cover  theyd agreed to buy. 
Because I think what was keyed into the Halifax computer system,  would  have been  done 
Ref: DRN42902752at the time of the mortgage  interview   I think its most likely  all aspects of the TMPP were 
probably discussed in some  detail. 
So overall, I think its more likely  Mr and Mrs H agreed to the TMPP at the time of the 
mortgage interview and sale.  
Mr and Mrs H have also said they felt pressured  to take out the PPI. They say they were 
nave first time buyers and the adviser was older and more experienced than them. I dont 
doubt that this is Mr and Mrs Hs recollection.  But I also have to consider that the sale took 
place over 10 years ago. And the adviser may have  told Mr and Mrs H it was a good idea to 
take out the policy out. But this isnt the same as pressure. And looking at the evidence I 
have I cant say its more  likely that they were  pressured into taking out the policy. So I cant 
uphold their complaint  on this point. 
were Mr and Mrs H given suitable recommendations?
Halifax accepts it recommended the TMPP to Mr and Mrs H. So it had to make sure it was 
suitable for them.
Mr and Mrs H say they didnt have any sick pay benefits from their employers and they 
didnt have any other means  to fall back  such as savings. Mr and Mrs H were  relatively  
young at the time and not uncommonly, they were taking on a mortgage  which  I think  would  
have been a long term commitment  for them. 
The life / CIC cover was designed  to help their next of kin cope with unforeseen or sudden 
financial uncertainty and I dont  think it was unreasonable that Halifax recommended  these  
elements as part of the overall TMPP policy. 
For the PPI element, I also think the recommendation that they take this was suitable. They 
appear to have been eligible for the PPI cover and not affected by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these policies. Their  mortgage was also secured against their 
home and so the consequences of them not being able to make  the repayments  could  have 
been serious. The PPI policy,  on the other  hand,  was designed to pay a monthly sum for up 
to 24 months if he had needed to claim.  
were they given enough information?
During the sale Halifax had to provide information which was clear fair and not misleading. I 
cant say Mr and Mrs H were told or given all the information they should have been but I 
think they would have been  easily able to see how much the TMPP cost and what was 
covered. I think they would have also been given a copy of the policy  rules.
Having carefully considered this case,  I think its much more  likely that Mr and Mrs H 
tailored the TMPP  cover  to suit their needs  of the time. I think  they probably agreed to the 
elements of the cover because it was something  they thought would be useful to have.  
All this means I dont  think the PPI ultimately  was mis-sold. 
I know Mr and Mrs H feel strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome. Theyve put time 
and effort  into their complaint. And Ive thought carefully about all the points theyve raised,  
including what theyve  said about  the delays  Halifax  caused when they first raised their 
complaint to them. And the fact Halifax only addressed  part of their complaint. 
Ref: DRN42902753Looking at the delays, it seems  like Halifax had sent a final response letter within  the 8 
weeks it is expected  to respond. Although Mr and Mrs H say they didnt get the letter, Ive 
not seen enough evidence to suggest  it wasnt sent when  it was dated. But in any event,    
Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have been  prevented in making a complaint to this service  after those 
8 weeks had ended. 
As for the fact Halifax only addressed part of their complaint   I can see in the 
acknowledgement letter Halifax sent Mr and Mrs H it stated that it was only considering the 
mis-sale of the PPI element of the policy. So I think Mr and Mrs H couldve  replied  to Halifax  
at that point if they felt it was not addressing  all of their complaint. 
So I dont  feel that any award is necessary or appropriate here for these points.  
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give Mr and Mrs H some of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage was a regulated mortgage they dont apply. So Halifax  doesnt  need to refund any 
of the commission  Mr and Mrs H paid for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I dont direct 
Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything more than the above, to put matters  right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4290275