K820x#14complaint
Miss S, and her father Mr S, say Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) hasnt done 
enough to put things  right following the cancellation  of her car insurance.
background
Miss S bought  car insurance from RSA in August 2018. The cover entitled other members of 
her family to drive her vehicle, including Mr S. The policy required the fitting  of a telematics 
device which  monitored things like driving  style, speed and location. Data  collected is used 
for a range of purposes including  informing the calculation of insurance premiums;  helping 
determine the circumstances of any claims; and identifying unacceptable  driving  behaviour.
Theres broad agreement between the parties about the circumstances leading to Miss S 
and Mr Ss complaint.  To summarise, Miss S left her car at a garage. Without her knowledge 
or authority, someone connected  to that firm used her car outside  of business hours. And in 
doing so they broke  road traffic regulations. Both parties agree where responsibility for this 
serious incident sits  with the garage  Miss S entrusted her car to.
The dispute  between Miss S and her father, and RSA concerns the effect of this incident on 
her insurance cover  which was cancelled,  and how things  were handled.
Miss S and Mr S have several  concerns about  what happened. For example, they say RSA 
wasnt clear what evidence  was required to satisfy it that Miss S hadnt been driving the car 
when the incident happened. They say their complaint wasnt  handled in the right way. They  
felt the customer service they received  was obstructive and rude. And they felt theyd  been  
subjected to discrimination.
RSA says the initial evidence provided  by the garage about the incident wasnt sufficient. It 
raised further questions  about what had happened. It did acknowledge  it had got some 
things wrong in how it handled  Miss S and Mr Ss complaint. To put things right it waived its 
usual cancellation  fees and offered a new contract of insurance  at the same premium as the 
previous policy.
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. Miss S and Mr S disagreed  and so their complaint 
has come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im not upholding Miss S and Mr Ss complaint. 
Ill explain  why.
RSA informed Miss S on 28 September  2018 that it was cancelling  her insurance at mid-
night on 5 October 2018. It gave her seven days notice of withdrawal  of cover because  it 
had been notified of a serious driving  incident. Her car had been recorded  speeding  at 
80mph in an area where the limit was 50 mph.
Miss S responded the same day to let RSA know she wasnt  responsible for the violation. 
She said her car had been with a garage. On 1 October  2018  RSA asked her for evidence 
and it set out what information it would  require from the garage  to investigate further.
Ref: DRN47724492The garage supplied  some information on 4 October  2018  and Miss S resent  this to RSA. 
Although RSAs adviser couldnt find the information  on the system when she called on 5 
October, she was assured the email inbox would be checked prior to any action  being  taken. 
This happened on 6 October and the communication was located.
Unfortunately when RSA reviewed the garages  email this wasnt  in the format required.  For 
example, it wasnt an officially headed  communication. The information  provided also raised 
further questions  about what had happened. For example,  Miss Ss car was being driven 
outside usual  business hours. And it had been used for journeys to residential  addresses, 
which werent connected to the policyholder. So her policy was cancelled.
I can see both sides of the argument here. Miss S says that the template she was provided  
to get gather  information from the garage  couldve been clearer.  And since RSA had the 
garages contact details it couldve made  contact with it to tie down any remaining issues.
But I can also see why the information  provided  by the garage raised further  material 
questions for RSA. The relationship in question was between Miss S and the garage.  So it 
wasnt responsible  for chasing the garage  directly.
RSA couldnt let the position with Miss Ss insurance  roll-on. It couldnt know  for sure 
whether and how soon the garage  would  submit the information it needed.  And while 
satisfactory evidence was provided  a few days later, by then it was too late because  Miss 
Ss cover had already been cancelled.
As with the main  incident  which gave rise to this unfortunate situation, the main  responsibility 
here rests with the garage. It shouldve been more fulsome and candid about  what  had 
happened in its first communication. Instead I think it was ambiguous about the 
circumstances that had led to the traffic  violation.
Overall, I dont  think it was unreasonable in the circumstances for RSA to have cancelled  
Miss Ss insurance at the point it did. The terms of her policy  are clear about when this will 
happen. But I recognise this caused Miss S inconvenience as she couldnt  use her car for a 
few days until alternative cover had been arranged.
Miss S and Mr S have highlighted concerns they had about RSAs  service. There were 
problems with information recorded on file, for example a supposed call to Miss S which  
shed never  received. And a complaint  was set-up  and then closed before resolution.
Miss S and Mr S also say they experienced obstructive  and rude behaviour from advisers.  
For example when trying to establish their complaint they felt the manager they spoke to was 
trying to block them. And they felt the points  they were making werent being listened to or 
properly reflected in the case being considered.
From reviewing the documents on file and having listened to the phone  calls between them 
and RSAs advisers, I agree with Miss S and Mr S that the service they received was lacking 
in some areas. And RSA accepted that the service it provided wasnt what they shouldve 
expected.
Miss S and Mr S told us there  were  discriminatory  undertones  to how theyd been treated. 
Obviously, any allegation of racial discrimination is a very serious  matter.
All I can do is reflect carefully on what Ive read and listened to. Whats clear  here is what 
Ref: DRN47724493Ive seen in other cases Ive dealt with before involving different firms  and a wide cross 
section of customers. On occasion RSAs communications  caused  confusion and frustration 
at a time that was already stressful for Miss S and Mr S.
Ive not picked up anything that makes me think that Miss S and Mr S were being  treated in 
the way they were  because of their race. But its not for me to tell them what  they should and 
shouldnt feel. Ive no doubt  theyve  been  genuine in telling me how things felt.
Im pleased that at least Mr S had a much  better  experience with last person he dealt with at 
RSA who tried to put matters right for him and his daughter. He recognised  this service as 
being excellent.
putting things right
Were all inconvenienced occasionally in our day-to-day lives,  including in our dealings with 
other people, businesses and organisations. When Im deciding how to sort out a complaint 
like this, Ill think about whether its fair to award  compensation  for trouble and upset.
This isnt intended to fine or punish  a business   which is the job of the regulator. But when 
somethings gone wrong, a businesss recognition of the emotional  and practical impact can 
make a real difference.
I can see that RSA has apologised for the things it got wrong. It also recognised that some of 
the service Miss S and Mr S received wasnt good  enough.
It tried to put things  right, for example by waiving its usual cancellation fees. Mr S thinks  RSA 
were bound to do this anyway  hes not quite right.
Miss Ss policy schedule says where cover is cancelled the amount of premium returned  to 
customers isnt normally pro-rated. There can be a number of reasons for this including  the 
way administrative overheads are charged  and risk apportioned  across  the contract.
So in this case, as Miss Ss policy ended after two months RSAs schedule  indicated she 
would only get back 58% of her annual premium. Instead it returned much  more of the 
charge, to reflect the amount of time shed  been  on cover. Given the insurance premium cost 
nearly £2,000,  this was a reasonable outcome.
RSA also offered Miss S a new contract  of insurance at the same  premium she secured 
previously. And it reassured her there wouldnt be an impact on her insurance  record  due to 
what had happened.
RSA decided to do these things because it recognised  Miss S had tried hard to sort matters 
out. It had eventually been  satisfied  that she wasnt responsible for what  had happened. And 
it had got some things  wrong in how it handled the complaint.
I wouldnt characterise RSAs offer as generous. But I do think overall  its been  pragmatic 
and fair in how it tried to put things right. So, I think its done enough.
Ref: DRN47724494my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 February  2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4772449