K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Oakwood Homeloans Limited isnt treating them fairly as the 
end of the term of their interest only mortgage approaches. In particular, they complain it 
refused an application they made  to extend  the term for eight years.
background
Mr and Mrs H have had their mortgage  for many years. It was originally taken out with 
another lender but is now with Oakwood.  Around  ten years  ago, during a period of financial 
difficulty, Mr and Mrs H asked  the lender to convert  the mortgage  from repayment to interest 
only terms. This was done,  and the term now ends later this year.
Mr and Mrs H have not been having  difficulties  paying their mortgage in recent years; 
indeed, theyve been making  overpayments  to reduce the balance. However, their finances  
overall are still somewhat  strained,  as Mr H has been made redundant and is now getting his 
own business up and running. Theyve been  reliant to some  extent on overdrafts and the 
selling of part of their collection of antiques and memorabilia.
In 2016, Mr and Mrs H asked Oakwood for an extension of eight years, taking the end of the 
term to 2027 when Mr H would reach  65 years  old. They said they planned to continue 
making overpayments to reduce the balance,  and estimated that most  of it would be paid off 
by then. They said they would, if necessary, continue to use sales  of their collection  and an 
anticipated inheritance to assist. They anticipated  that most of the balance  would be paid off 
by the end of a revised term, and if there was anything left it could then be paid off by equity 
release or downsizing.
Oakwood refused  their application to extend the term. It said it didnt meet its lending criteria 
as Mr and Mrs H didnt have a valid repayment  strategy. It looked  at their finances  and said 
they didnt pass  affordability and had adverse credit on their records.  So Mr and Mrs H 
complained.
Our investigator recommended upholding the complaint. She said that there  wasnt any need  
to assess Mr and Mrs Hs affordability or repayment  strategy provided  the term extension  
was in their best interests  and she thought it was Oakwood didnt  agree,  so it asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to deal with the various criticisms Mr and Mrs H have of how Oakwood  runs its 
business. Theyre not really matters  for me to comment on, and Ill focus on what seems to 
me to be the real heart  of this complaint. Thats what is to happen to this mortgage now the 
end of the term is near.
I dont agree with Oakwood in its interpretation of the rules of mortgage regulation  (known as 
MCOB). It said that it had to carry out an affordability assessment because it didnt consider 
the term extension  to be in Mr and Mrs Hs best interests, as set out in MCOB rule 11.7.1.
Ref: DRN44097582However, as the investigator pointed out, rule 11.6.3 says that an affordability  assessment 
isnt necessary if the proposed change  to the mortgage doesnt involve a change  to the 
terms thats material to affordability. As the term wouldnt be extended  into Mr and Mrs Hs 
retirement, and would stay on interest only terms, there is no change to the terms that would 
be material to affordability. So theres no requirement to carry out an affordability  
assessment. Rule 11.7.1 only needs  to be considered if rule 11.6.3  doesnt apply  which it 
does in this case.
The rules  also say that theres no requirement to carry out an assessment of Mr and Mrs Hs 
interest only repayment strategy against  the strict rules that apply to such strategies  if the 
change is in Mr and Mrs Hs best interests.
Those are the rules applicable to this case.  But my role is not just to apply  the rules  its to 
decide, taking  the rules  into account, what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this case.
In my view, this is a finely balanced case.  On the one hand,  Mr and Mrs H are required to 
repay their mortgage. Oakwood is entitled to its money back. When they switched to interest 
only in 2008, Mr and Mrs H made clear they understood they would need to pay back  the 
capital in 2019, and that they didnt require  financial advice  but had made up their minds that 
this was the right thing  for them to do. Its not unreasonable  for Oakwood to expect  them to 
do what they agreed to do.
On the other hand, its clear that in practice Mr and Mrs H now arent in a position  to repay 
their mortgage unless they sell their property. They recognised that in good time and applied  
to Oakwood for a term extension. The regulators rules set out that such  an extension is 
possible, and make clear  that affordability and interest only strategy need not be crucial 
factors  if the term extension is in their best interests. This isnt the way Oakwood thought 
about their application, and in my view in doing  so it didnt  approach  the application fairly.
So in essence the question I have  to decide is what I think Oakwood would  or should  
have decided if it had thought about their application in the right way. 
Mr and Mrs H have demonstrated they can afford the mortgage  payments  theyd been 
making overpayments for some time and were willing to carry on doing  so. They say the 
overpayments would  increase over time,  reducing the balance further. And they have capital 
assets  and expectations of more capital  which would assist  in further reducing the 
balance. Theres not much equity in the property, according to Oakwoods  most recent 
valuation, so if the property were  to be sold now Mr and Mrs H wouldnt be able to downsize.
Ref: DRN44097583Theres around eight  years left to Mr Hs retirement age. Mr and Mrs H have set out a plan 
they say will ensure the mortgage is paid off by then. The consequences for them if the 
mortgage isnt extended will be significant. Ive acknowledged they did agree to repay it in 
2019  and Oakwood can legitimately  expect them to keep to that promise.  But, on balance,  
and taking everything into account, I think  a term extension is the fairest  outcome in the 
particular circumstances  of this case.  Mr and Mrs H will need to make sure they stick to the 
plan  including making sure that they have a way of paying off any remaining capital at the 
end of the revised term  or theres a very real prospect theyll  lose their home at that point.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
Oakwood Homeloans Limited to extend the term of Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage by eight years 
from the current expiry date.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4409758