K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that shes being asked to pay interest on a Buy Now Pay later (BNPL) 
purchase when  Home Retail Group Card Services Limited, trading as Argos,  told her theyd 
waive the interest.
background
Ms C purchased an item on BNPL terms using her Argos store  card. The balance was to be 
paid by 22 December  2018 and if it wasnt paid in full interest would be payable.
Ms C checked her statement in November  but read the wrong column  and therefore paid 
£99.05 instead of the £390.84. She realised her mistake when her January statement arrived 
and it included an interest charge of £98.27 for the BNPL item.
So she called Argos and explained her mistake. She asked if theyd be prepared to waive  
the interest if she paid the full balance now and she says the call handler accepted  this and 
took her payment only to later renege  on his promise and tell her the interest wouldnt be 
removed.
She complained to Argos but they said, as the full balance of the debt hadnt been  paid by 
the 22 December  deadline, they were right to charge interest  and they didnt agree that their 
call handler had promised  to waive interest in return for full payment.
So Ms C referred her complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion. He 
listened to the call shed had with Argos but he didnt think that at any point the call handler 
had promised to remove interest. He thought  the outstanding balance  would have  needed to 
have been paid anyway so he didnt  think Argos  had done anything wrong.
But Ms C disagreed. She said that during the call shed asked if I pay the entire  outstanding  
balance, could you remove  the interest  and that the call handler had said yes we can sort 
that out for you. So she thought it was clear there  had been an agreement to waive  interest 
in return for full payment and she therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms C but I agree with the investigators view and for similar reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ive listened to the call recording of the conversation Ms C had with Argos.  Its clear  she 
does ask for the interest  to be waived but I dont think  the call handler agrees to this. 
Ref: DRN47672902Payment is taken before he goes  off line to discuss this with a manager and see if its 
possible. And Im persuaded that Ms C knew that, at the point she paid the full balance, an 
agreement hadnt  been reached to waive interest.  I say that because after the payment is 
made she asks:
so my question is on the next statement wont you charge  me that deferred  interest
I also dont think the call handler was referring to the interest payment when he said Ill get 
that sorted  for you, I think its clear he was referring  to the provision of larger  statements.
The final balance was always  payable so I cant say Argos  has done anything  wrong  by 
taking payment for it and whilst I accept that Ms C made a mistake in not paying the correct 
balance I cant say Argos have been unfair when charging interest  on it. The full balance 
wasnt paid and in those circumstances the interest was due.
So overall, Im afraid I dont think it would be fair to ask Argos to take any further  action here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4767290