K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that a tied advisor from Allied  Dunbar (now Zurich  Assurance  Ltd) gave him 
advice to set up a new personal  pension policy when he already had three  existing policies. 
He thinks he may have been  disadvantaged  by this. 
background
In 1996 Mr B met with a tied advisor  from Allied  Dunbar,  and his financial circumstances and 
existing pension, investment and protection  products were reviewed. At this time Mr B 
around thirty  years old, and had three existing pension policies with another  provider. One of 
these had been set up to receive National Insurance rebates,  as Mr B had contracted  out of 
the second state pension  (SERPS) and another had been set up to hold the protected  rights  
Mr B had built up in another pension through contracting out of SERPS, which  hed wanted 
to transfer to the provider. A final policy had been  set up to receive  monthly contributions. 
The provider of these  policies has confirmed that it was only this latter policy  which attracted 
charges  the other two did not make charges. 
The documents from the time record that Mr B was unhappy with his current  provider. He 
had received poor service and he was no longer going to have a local representative. Hed 
made a complaint to the provider about  some of the things he was unhappy  about.  
Allied Dunbars advisor recommended Mr B take out an Allied  Dunbar  personal  pension, and 
make monthly contributions to it. This policy was to be a replacement  for the policy  with the 
other provider which  Mr B was making contributions to. The monthly  contributions were to be 
indexed (meaning theyd  be increased annually)  and invested in a managed fund. Mr B 
accepted this advice and began to make monthly  contributions into the new policy  in 1996, 
stopping his monthly contributions to his old policy at the same time. In 1997 and 2000 he 
increased his contributions. And in 2008  he transferred the policy  to another  provider. 
The documents from the time of the advice record that the disadvantages of starting  a new 
policy were described as follows:
New setting up costs.
New underwriting requirements.
Increase in monthly premiums (as there  was a minimum contribution, which  was 
higher than the amount Mr B was contributing to his previous policy).  
The policy with the existing provider would be made paid up and incur an ongoing 
monthly charge.  
Mr B signed  a declaration, saying he accepted and understood this. 
Allied Dunbar  is now part of Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich), so the complaint was made to 
it. Zurich did not uphold the complaint. It said there was evidence  to show  Mr B was unhappy 
with his existing  policies and the advantages  and disadvantages  of setting up a new policy 
had been fully explained to him. Mr B was not happy with this response,  so came to us. 
Our investigator looked into things, and concluded that Mr Bs complaint should  not be 
upheld. She said she did not feel Allied  Dunbar had done anything wrong in recommending 
the policy, as Mr B was clearly unhappy with his existing  arrangements. And she thought the 
document Mr B signed setting out the disadvantages clearly  explained  things to him. 
Ref: DRN40713762Mr B did not accept this view, so the complaint was referred to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr Bs concerns about his pensions. Hes ended  up with a lot of different 
policies and I know it cant be easy keeping track  of them  all. I understand Mr B has a made 
a number of complaints against different businesses about  the pensions  he has built up, and 
is keen for these complaints to be considered alongside one another. I will consider  each  of 
the complaints  and issue decisions  on each  in due course. To reassure Mr B, I confirm  I 
have read the case files on the other complaints  to get an understanding  of the full picture. 
I know Mr B will be disappointed by this but, like the investigator, I do not think  there is 
sufficient evidence to show it would be fair and reasonable to say Allied Dunbar did anything 
wrong when recommending the new policy to Mr B in 1996. 
The policy Allied  Dunbar recommended was essentially a replacement  for one of the three 
policies Mr B already  held  the one he was making  monthly contributions to. Allied Dunbars 
advisor was tied, meaning he could only give Mr B advice on Allied  Dunbars policies. He 
could not give Mr B advice on his existing policies. However, I am satisfied there was 
sufficient evidence at the time of the advice to show Mr B was clearly unhappy with his 
existing policy provider.  And, with that in mind, I do not think it was unreasonable  to 
recommend an Allied Dunbar policy as an alternative  as long as sufficient steps were 
taken to make Mr B aware of the disadvantages  of setting up a new policy. 
I am satisfied that Allied Dunbar did take sufficient  steps to identify the disadvantages  and 
explain them  to Mr B. The evidence  from the time shows its advisor thought  carefully about 
the disadvantages of replacing  Mr Bs existing policy with a new one. And it shows  that the 
advisor correctly identified the disadvantages  and clearly explained them  to Mr B. Mr B 
signed a statement to confirm he had read and understood the explanation. 
I am also satisfied that the policy was suitable for Mr B. The premiums were affordable, and 
the selected managed fund was consistent with his circumstances and objectives. So, 
looking beyond the disadvantages of replacing his existing policy,  I do not think  there  were  
any other issues with the advice Mr B was given. 
Overall, I do not think there  is sufficient  evidence to say Allied Dunbar did anything  wrong.  
So I am not going to ask Zurich to do anything else. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4071376