K820x#14complaint
Mr K says APFIN Limited (trading as cashasap.co.uk)  irresponsibly lent to him.
 
background
This complaint is about a payday loan and four instalment loans  cashasap  provided to Mr K 
between February 2017  and September  2018. Mr Ks borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 12.02.17 28.02.17 1 £150 £169.07
2 01.03.17 27.05.17 3 £300 £149.47
3 02.02.18 30.03.18 3 £300 £146.25
4 31.05.18 29.08.18 3 £300 £150.29
5 01.09.18 09.10.18 3 £400 £197.85
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. Given the amounts Mr K 
was borrowing and his borrowing history, the investigator didnt think it wouldve been 
proportionate for cashasap  to ask for the amount of information needed to show that the 
borrowing was unsustainable.  
In addition, he didnt  think the number of loans Mr K took out or the overall  period  of 
borrowing meant cashasap shouldve realised he was struggling  to manage his finances. 
Mr K disagreed with the investigators conclusions  and the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cashasap needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. Im also 
mindful that the relevant  regulations arent prescriptive about  what  lenders need  to do, and 
they dont stipulate the types  of checks that lenders should carry out.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that cashasap  should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN44379662the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that cashasap was required to establish 
whether Mr K could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K says cashasap shouldve carried out more  detailed checks  on his finances  before 
agreeing to provide the loans. He says if it had done  so it wouldve realised he was in a debt 
management plan,  had several  other short-term loans and was gambling  heavily. So 
cashasap wouldve realised it was unlikely Mr K could repay his loans sustainably.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr K has told me. And I can see why he might 
consider cashasap wouldnt have given him the loans if it had carried  out better checks on 
his finances.
But as Ive mentioned above, the checks that cashasap  was required to make  had to be 
reasonable and proportionate. And in the early  part of the lending relationship I wouldnt 
expect cashasaps checks to be as thorough as they might be later on. I understand that 
cashasap asked Mr K about  his income  and expenditure  each time he applied for credit.
The repayment of Mr Ks first loan represented  a relatively small proportion of his income  
and would have  appeared affordable  based  on the information Mr K provided. So I dont  
consider it was necessary for cashasap to ask for any more information from Mr K or verify 
the information Mr K had provided at that stage.
His second loan was taken out a few days after the first was repaid. It was for a larger  
amount, but Mr K chose to repay it over three instalments. Again, the repayments  were a 
relatively small proportion of his income.
I still consider loan 2 was taken in the early stages of the lending relationship. And given the 
amounts involved,  again I dont consider it was necessary for cashasap  to verify the 
information  Mr K had given it about his finances  or make further enquiries about his 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN44379663Loan 3 wasnt  taken until around eight  months  after loan 2 had been repaid. I think this gap 
was big enough  to break the chain of lending. In other words,  I think  it was reasonable for 
cashasap to conclude  that Mr K didnt have an ongoing need for short term credit and treat 
him as a new customer when he returned  to ask for another loan.
Loan 3 was also to be repaid over three months and the repayments were a relatively low 
proportion of Mr Ks income.  Which,  again,  means  I think it was reasonable of cashasap not 
to carry out detailed checks on Mr Ks finances  at that time and accept what  he said about 
his income and expenditure - which would  have shown that the loan repayments  were 
affordable for him
Loan 4 was taken about two months after loan 3 was repaid, and loan 5 was taken about a 
month after the repayment of loan 4. Loans 4 and 5 were to be repaid over three months and 
the repayments were  a relatively low proportion of Mr Ks income (even though  loan 5 was 
for a higher  amount than loan 4).
Again, when I take account of the repayment  amounts  for loans  4 and 5, Im not persuaded 
that cashasap  shouldve verified  the information  Mr K had given it about his finances.  
This means  that overall Im satisfied the checks cashasap carried out for Mr K were 
reasonable and proportionate for each of his loans.  I dont consider it would have  been  
proportionate to carry out more detailed checks. From the financial information  available  to 
cashasap, I dont think it was unreasonable for the business to conclude  that Mr K could 
sustainably repay  his loans.
Mr K took out five loans with cashasap in just over eighteen months. But as Ive already said,  
there was a gap of around eight months  during that time,  between  loans 2 and 3. With that in 
mind, I dont  consider  the lending period or the number of loans taken  demonstrated that the 
lending was unsustainable. So I dont find that Mr Ks pattern of borrowing meant cashasap 
shouldve realised he was having  difficulty managing his finances.
Im obviously  sympathetic to the position  Mr K was in when his loans were arranged.  But 
from what Ive seen  and been told, Im not persuaded that it was unreasonable for cashasap 
to provide the loans. So there  are no reasonable grounds on which  I can uphold Mr Ks 
complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Ref: DRN4437966