K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mishandled  her buildings  
insurance claim.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in January  2019,  which  forms part of this 
final decision. 
I said I didnt intend asking Halifax to pay any further compensation, as I considered  the 
£275 theyd already paid to be a proportionate  reflection of the distress and inconvenience 
Mrs R had suffered. I also didnt think it was unreasonable  that Halifax had refused  to 
disclose a full breakdown  of the costs  incurred in relation to the repair works, as such 
information was commercially sensitive to the insurer.  And in terms of Halifaxs  complaint  
handling, I said that I wasnt able to comment on such  matters  as the handling of complaints 
is not a regulated activity. 
Mrs R responded with several  points of reply, which Ive summarised below:
There were  elements of poor service that continued for a number of weeks  after the 
compensation had been paid, which  Mrs R does not feel she has been  adequately 
compensated for;
No mention was made of the fact that the contractors led to Mrs R missing an 
important lunch  celebration with a friend  (amongst  other  failings and service  issues) 
so she does not agree that her experience  can be described  as just moderate  
inconvenience or upset 
Sufficient account has not been taken  of the time Mrs R has spent dealing with 
Halifax and chasing up the contractors;
The delays were  largely down to the contractors rather than any of Mrs Rs actions;
Mrs R reiterated some of the service  failings she was unhappy with, and maintains  that 
further compensation should be paid. Halifax had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  including  Mrs Rs recent points 
in response to my provisional decision  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I still consider the £275 compensation 
offered to be fair in the circumstances.
I appreciate that Mrs R feels her experience with Halifax  and their contractors  left her more 
than moderately  inconvenienced, and that there may have been other instances of poor 
service for a few weeks after the compensation had been paid. But this service does not look 
to make a set award for each individual error  an insurer or their agents  might have made  
by adding them together to reach  a final figure  for example. Instead, we consider all the 
circumstances of the complaint and take a step back to assess  what would be considered 
fair compensation overall. So although there  may have been a few incidents that Mrs R feels  
were unaccounted for in the compensation, I still do not consider overall that it would be fair 
to direct Halifax to pay any further  compensation.
Ref: DRN45222632In my provisional decision  and in line with considering the overall impact an insurers  
failings have had  I didnt itemise every  point Mrs R was unhappy with. But I assured her 
that I had fully considered everything shed  sent us. I understand Mrs R was particularly 
upset about having to cancel important lunch plans with her friend. But Id like to assure 
Mrs R again that I did consider  this when reaching  the outcome  set out in my provisional 
decision, along with all the other emails and correspondence she has sent. And while I 
understand that the delays and inconvenience  were largely down  to the actions  of Halifax 
and their contractors  which has been distressing for Mrs R  I still dont think  it warrants a 
more substantial award in the circumstances  particularly given that the overall time it took 
to complete the repairs was also hindered by Mrs Rs requests in relation to her holiday 
plans and the need to dismantle/re-erect  the scaffolding several  times.
I acknowledge that Mrs R has had to spend  time dealing with Halifax and their agents, 
chasing up responses and sending numerous  emails. But this service does not look to award  
compensation based on specific  units of time or per item of correspondence.  And Halifax 
has already acknowledged that there  was a breakdown in communication and offered £25 
by way of an apology specifically for this. As I set out in my provisional decision, the nature 
of building  works can often lead to a certain  level of stress, inconvenience and disruption in 
any event  of which  a homeowner cant always expect to be compensated for. And 
although I can see that the level of service Mrs R received was often  far from perfect, I 
consider that Halifax has suitably  acknowledged these failings with the compensation 
theyve already paid..
I appreciate that Mrs R has been  put to varying  degrees of frustration, disappointment and 
inconvenience, and I know  his will come  as a disappointment to her.  But for the reasons  
given above  as well as those set out in my provisional decision  I dont consider the 
degree of inconvenience to be significant enough to warrant  an award in excess  of the £275 
already paid. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, as well as those set out in my provisional decision,  I do not 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN45222633COPY OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mrs R complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mishandled her buildings insurance  
claim.
background
Mrs R holds a buildings insurance  policy with Halifax, and submitted a claim  in March 2016 when one 
of her skylights blew out in a storm and caused further damage to her roof and conservatory.  Halifax 
appointed contractors to complete the necessary works  to repair the damage, but since the works 
began, Mrs R has been  dissatisfied  with various  elements  of the service shes received from Halifaxs 
contractors, as well as the progression of her claim.  
Mrs R has submitted correspondence between herself and the various parties involved  in the 
insurance claim, outlining the issues she has been unhappy with. These include, but are not strictly 
limited to:
She was given incorrect information about various  elements of the claim which  led to delays 
(such as whether scaffolding would be required, or whether installation  of the new skylight 
couldve been completed from inside the house);
The contractors ordered incorrect materials, and it took them  several  months before  they 
started organising  a replacement skylight;
There was a lack of communication from those  involved, leading to a significant  amount of 
chasing and correspondence having to be sent by Mrs R;
The contractors were informed  of Mrs Rs holiday plans but failed to organise the works 
around her plans accordingly, meaning the scaffolding had to be taken down and re-erected  a 
number of times;
When the scaffolding was re-erected,  on one occasion it was incorrectly  positioned meaning 
that work could not be undertaken  to the conservatory; 
It took almost  a year for repairs to be completed, despite them being relatively 
straightforward;
The temporary fix to the damaged skylight failed  more than once,  allowing water to cause 
further damage to the property;
It was left to Mrs R to source the correct colour of skylight controller.
Mrs R originally complained  to Halifax in August 2016 about the service shed received,  and was 
offered a total of £275 compensation, but she doesnt believe this is a proportionate reflection of the 
distress and inconvenience  suffered, so she is seeking additional compensation. 
Mrs R has also complained  that Halifax has consistently refused to provide a basic breakdown  of the 
value of her claim  which she believes to be far too high compared to what  she thinks the claim  
shouldve realistically cost.  This has also caused her concern that such  a large  amount will impede 
her future  ability to find a more competitive insurance quote. She has therefore requested to see a 
total breakdown  of the costs expended in her claim.  Finally, Mrs R has complained about Halifaxs 
complaints handling process, which she feels was inadequate and led to considerable frustration. 
Halifax refused to disclose the total breakdown of Mrs Rs claim,  as they maintain that their liability 
was to return  Mrs R to her pre-loss condition, and that the costs involved are commercially sensitive 
to them and not relevant to the customer. Theyve refused to offer any further compensation, and do 
not believe that their complaint handling  was inadequate. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint.  She didnt consider whether the compensation  for 
the service failings was adequate, but was satisfied that the cost of her claim  had been calculated 
fairly, which she felt was a matter of Halifaxs discretion in any event and not something they would 
Ref: DRN45222634need to disclose. In terms of the complaint handling, the investigator commented that this is not 
something wed be able to look into as it is not a regulated activity.
Mrs R disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I dont intend to uphold  it.
service failings and compensation  
Mrs R submits that Halifax and their contractors  mismanaged her claim, which  led to additional 
damage to her property, extreme stress, frustration and inconvenience. I dont feel it necessary for the 
purposes of my decision  to list or detail  everything that has happened since Mrs R submitted  her 
claim. But I would like to assure her that I have fully considered everything she has sent us, in order 
to reach an outcome that is fair and reasonable.
Halifax offered  £275 compensation  in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused,  having  
initially paid £25 due to a lack of communication, and then a further £250 for the overall service  
failings. But Mrs R does not feel this is commensurate to the experience shes had with her claim, and 
argues that she should receive further  compensation.
Ive considered the service  Mrs R received after submitting her claim,  and its clear  that shes been  
left frustrated and inconvenienced by the actions of Halifax  and their contractors. I can see, for 
example, that there  have been delays in the progress  of her claim due to poor communication, and 
that there have been various issues with the standard of workmanship. But I have to consider 
whether, in the circumstances, the compensation  awarded so far is proportionate to the distress and 
inconvenience suffered.
The power  to make  such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial Conduct 
Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for distress or inconvenience 
experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a proportionate reflection of the impact that a 
businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order to award further compensation to Mrs R, I 
would have to be satisfied that the wrongful  actions of Halifax and/or  their agents  have had a greater 
impact than just moderate inconvenience or upset, which I cant say it has in these circumstances.
I appreciate the experience  wouldve been  entirely  frustrating for Mrs R, but I dont consider the 
actions of Halifax or their agents  to warrant any further compensation  at a higher  level. I can see that 
some of the delays were  as a result of the scaffolding having to be taken down on a number  of 
occasions due to Mrs R going on holiday, for example, so I dont consider that the overall  time taken 
to carry out the repairs was solely  down  to the contractors  in any event. I appreciate that Mrs R gave 
the contractors advanced notice of her plans, but building  works can often take longer than initially  
anticipated. And its understandable, and sometimes even expected, that during ongoing building 
works there is going to be a certain level of disruption and inconvenience. I acknowledge that there 
have been times where Halifaxs service (and that of their agents) has fallen below  an acceptable  
standard. But I dont consider £275 to be an unreasonable or disproportionate  reflection  of the impact 
experienced by Mrs R. 
So I dont intend on asking Halifax to pay any further compensation in the circumstances.
 
claim value
Mrs R is unhappy with the total amount Halifax have paid towards the cost of repairing her property,  
and has also complained  that they will not provide  her with a breakdown  of the costs. Halifax  paid a 
total of £28,617.74, but Mrs R is concerned that the failures attributable to the contractors  have added 
significantly to the overall cost of the claim.
Ref: DRN45222635The policy gives Halifax the sole discretion as to how claims are settled,  and states that they will pay 
the cost of rebuilding or repairing the part of your home which is damagedbut  not more than the 
cost of completely rebuilding  it in its original form. So once Halifax had chosen to indemnify Mrs R by 
electing to repair the damage caused by the storm, they were  obliged to pay the costs  of those  
repairs. 
I appreciate that Mrs R may think the total cost of the claim was exorbitant, and is concerned that the 
size of her claim  could impede her ability to find a competitive insurance  quote in the future. But 
insurers are typically  concerned with the frequency of claims rather than the individual costs involved.  
I also appreciate  that Mrs R is concerned that Halifax has also paid for the failures  attributable to the 
contractors. But in any event, the contractors have  confirmed that Halifax has not been charged for 
any repeat  work and  having  reviewed  the scope of works  I havent seen anything  to persuade me 
that the costs Halifax has paid were  unreasonable  or unrelated to the claim, or anything other than a 
legitimate exercise of their commercial judgment for that matter. Halifax  elected to repair the damage 
using their approved contractors and, accordingly, they cannot simply walk away from their 
contractual obligations to pay for the work completed just because it seems a bit expensive  to the 
policy holder. 
I also dont think Halifax has acted unreasonably in refusing to disclose a full breakdown of costs, as 
information relating to the rates in which  an insurer pays to their preferred contractors can be 
commercially sensitive  so I dont  intend  asking them to provide this. And in any event, Halifaxs 
obligation to Mrs R in these circumstances was to return her property to its pre-loss condition so far 
as reasonably possible. How they choose to indemnify  a policyholder and how much it costs to 
discharge their obligations  under the insurance contract is ultimately  a commercial matter for Halifax, 
and is not something in which this service would ordinarily interfere. So I dont  think  Halifax has acted 
unreasonably in this regard.
complaint handling
Mrs R has raised concerns regarding  the way in which her complaint was handled by Halifax. I 
appreciate that the service Mrs R experienced couldve been better.  But in this case, I can only 
consider Halifaxs activities that are covered by our service, i.e. the handling  of the insurance claim; 
Im not allowed to consider unregulated matters beyond our remit, such as the overall  quality of their 
complaint-handling. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not intend to uphold  Mrs Rs complaint,  as I consider the £275 she 
has already  been paid to be fair compensation in the circumstances.
Both parties should let me have  any further comments before  4 February  2019,  at which  point I will 
look to issue my final decision.
Ref: DRN4522263