K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that a used car she acquired  through a hire purchase agreement with
Secure Trust Bank Plc (Secure Trust) wasnt of satisfactory quality. She also believes the 
mileage of the car was tampered with.
background
On 27 July 2016 Miss G entered into a hire purchase agreement  with Secure Trust for the 
supply of a used car that was first registered in September  2011. Shortly  afterwards, she 
complained to the dealership that the mileage  of the car had been tampered with. The 
dealership investigated Miss Gs concerns,  but it didnt agree the mileage had been  
tampered with.
Miss G also complained about the quality of the car. She says that by November 2016 
various warning lights including one that indicated the car was due for a service  had become 
illuminated. The service  light concerned  her because the car had received a service  a short 
time before it was supplied. The dealership inspected  the car, but said it couldnt identify any 
fault.
Miss G remained unhappy and complained to Secure Trust. She also said the brakes were 
making a grinding  noise.  An independent  inspection of the car took place in December 2016 
and the engineer said he felt the general  performance and condition of the car was 
proportionate to its age and mileage.
Secure Trust also explained that it had reviewed  Vehicle and Operator Services Agency
(VOSA), Hire Purchase Investigation (HPI) and National Mileage Register  (NMR) records  
which didnt suggest  there was any discrepancy  with the mileage  of the car.
Miss G says she took the car to another garage  in January 2017 and was told the car 
needed new front brake pads, discs and tyres.
Miss G remained unhappy so she referred her complaint to our service.  Our adjudicator  
reviewed the complaint,  but she didnt think it should  be upheld.  In summary, she said:
The issues Miss G had experienced with the car were more  likely to be caused by 
general wear and tear rather than an inherent defect with the car; and
There wasnt sufficient evidence to show the mileage of the car had been tampered  
with.
Miss G remained unhappy, so the matter was passed to me for a decision.
Miss G has also complained to our service about  how Secure Trust has handled  the 
termination of her hire purchase agreement. This is being treated as a separate  complaint.
my provisional findings
I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done that, I was minded not to uphold  
Miss Gs complaint, but for slightly different reasons than the adjudicator. I explained  why.
Ref: DRN40385252was the mileage tampered with?
I acknowledged that Miss G had said the car was advertised in June 2016 as having 
travelled 22,000 miles, but when she had test driven it in July 2016 she noticed the mileage  
on the odometer was much  higher.  
 
I explained that neither party had been  able to provide me with a copy  of the advertisement, 
but Id looked at the MOT history via GOV.UK  and records  showed the car had travelled 
22491 miles in September 2015  and 23456 miles  in July 2016.  This was also consistent with 
the car service history. This indicated the car had travelled more  than 22,000  when the car 
was advertised.  
I acknowledged the dealership had said it thought an error had been  made  in the 
advertisement and in the circumstances I thought that was a reasonable explanation.  I also 
explained that Id taken  into account  Miss G had agreed to purchase the car after she had 
become aware  it had travelled further  than advertised.
 
I was also mindful the mileage only went up by 965 miles between September 2015 and 
July 2016, but I didnt  think that was enough  to show the mileage had been tampered  with. 
I also acknowledged that Miss G had said when  the car was supplied to her the mileage 
showing on the odometer was lower than it had been when shed test driven the car. She 
said 24,595 miles  were showing on the odometer at the test drive  and this was confirmed on 
the invoices she was given by the dealership at that time. However, when the car was 
supplied to her the odometer was only showing it had travelled 23,456 miles. 
I explained that Id taken  Miss Gs recollections into account. However,  I struggled to find 
any motivation for someone to tamper with the mileage of the car in the manner she had 
suggested. I said this because the reduction in mileage could only have been a maximum of 
1139 miles, so any increase in the value of the car (which is the usual motivation to clock a 
car) would  be minimal. 
Further, the cash price  given on the invoices  noting  24,595 miles was the actual cash  price 
Miss G paid for the car when it was supplied to her. It seemed unlikely that the mileage 
would be tampered  with and reduced to 23,456 miles after the price  was agreed as this was 
unlikely to result in any financial benefit for the seller.
I said I felt there were a few possibilities. One was that the mileage did increase significantly 
in the few days from the MOT to when Miss G received  the car, and that her recollection  of 
the delivery mileage  is incorrect.
 
Another possibility  was that an error was made when the mileage was noted on the invoices 
and Miss Gs recollection wasnt an accurate reflection of the mileage of the car when she 
test drove  it. Having weighed everything  up, I thought it was more  likely than not that this 
happened, rather than the car being clocked after the test drive.
Miss G also said shed  logged her concerns with the National Mileage Register,  who were 
investigating the matter. However,  she hadnt  been  able to show it had found  any evidence 
of a mileage discrepancy.
Based on the information Id seen, I wasnt persuaded  the mileage of the car was tampered 
with before it was supplied to Miss G.
Ref: DRN40385253did Secure Trust supply  a car of satisfactory quality?
I acknowledged Secure  Trust had supplied the car to Miss G through  the hire purchase 
agreement. I explained  as the supplier of the car Secure  Trust needs to ensure the car is of 
satisfactory quality when its supplied. I went on to explain that exactly  what  is satisfactory 
quality will depend on a number  of things including the age, mileage  and price  paid for the 
car. Where a brand  new car is supplied the expectation is that the car is free from even 
minor defects. But with used cars, the car might show some signs  of wear and tear and this 
is often reflected in the price paid for the car.
 
I acknowledged that Miss G had said the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to her. She had told us that a short time after shed received the car the brakes 
started to make  a grinding noise and various  warning lights became illuminated.
 
Miss G also said she took the car to a local garage  in January 2017 and was told she 
needed to replace the front brake pads, discs and tyres  one of which was deformed. 
I acknowledged that Miss G had said shed replaced  some  of these parts  and Id asked her 
for more information about this, including any documentary evidence she may have to show 
this. But she didnt submit  anything further to me. 
I confirmed Id taken  Miss Gs comments into account. However, I had to bear in mind  the 
independent engineer who inspected  the car in December 2016  didnt identify  any inherent 
defects with the car. He also didnt say any parts needed to be replaced. He concluded  the 
general performance and condition  of the car was proportionate to its age and mileage. In 
particular, he noted the following:
Brakes were responsive and efficient  and no brake  judder or pull was noted. No abnormal 
noises were noted.
The engineer did identify a possible problem with wheel balance.  He noted:
a slight wheel  wobble  was present at approx. 30 to 35 mph.  It is considered this may be a 
wheel balance issue.
However, he didnt  attribute this to any inherent  defect  with the car. 
I acknowledged Miss G had said her local garage  told her the wheel wobble identified  was 
caused by a deformed tyre. I accepted that it was possible a deformed tyre could cause a 
wheel wobble,  but I hadnt seen enough evidence to be satisfied that is what happened  here.  
I also explained that I would have expected the independent engineer  to have identified a 
deformed tyre during his inspection.  
Ref: DRN40385254I also acknowledged Miss G had said various warning  lights  had become illuminated around  
four months after the car was supplied to her and I could see the independent engineer 
noted an illuminated service light during his inspection. He said this might be indicative of an 
un-noted fault,  but he also went on to say the light might not have been reset at the last 
service. So it wasnt  clear  why the service  light became illuminated. As such, I wasnt  able to 
conclude it was caused by an inherent defect with the car.
I explained that I didnt think Miss G had provided enough evidence to support what  she had 
said about what needed to be replaced. I also explained that even if the parts  Miss G had 
referred to needed  to be replaced, it doesnt necessarily follow that they were defective  or 
that there  was an inherent defect with the car. 
I explained that I was mindful that brake pads, discs and tyres are subject to general wear 
and tear and given  the age and the mileage of the car I would expect  to see some  sign of 
this. I also felt Miss Gs use of the car was likely  to have  contributed  to any wear and tear of 
these parts.  I could  see the mileage of the car had increased to 26,779 when it was 
inspected in December  2016 and I felt this was likely to have increased  further  by January 
2017, when Miss G took the car to a local garage.
 
Having weighed everything up, I didnt  think the information Id seen was sufficient to show  
there was an inherent defect with the car. I was therefore not persuaded the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality  when it was supplied to Miss G. 
Because I wasnt satisfied  the car was of unsatisfactory quality or that the mileage had been  
tampered with when it was supplied to Miss G, I didnt think  Miss G was entitled to reject the 
car. As a result, I felt Miss G remained responsible for the payments required under the hire 
purchase agreement.  
responses to my provisional  decision
Secure Trust didnt  respond to my provisional  decision.
Miss G provided me with a copy of an invoice she says she received from the local garage 
she visited in January 2017. This confirms a balance due of £214.50 and provides the 
following description of the work completed:
Replace front discs  and pads 
Replace brake pad warning wire
Reset brake service indicator
Check general condition  of vehicle & suspension  components 
Carry out diagnostic  check: no faults found
Note: All tyres cracked on walls 
N/s/f tyre deformed causing  wheel wobble
Front wiper blades split 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments including the additional information 
I received from Miss G to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, it remains that Im not going to uphold the complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Ref: DRN40385255The invoice provided by Miss G confirms  the brake pad warning  wire and front discs and 
pads were replaced. It also states  all four tyres were cracked on their walls,  there  was a 
deformed wheel causing a wheel  wobble  and the front wiper blades  were split.
I consider all of these problems to be minor  and this is reflected in the amount Miss G paid 
the garage for the work it carried out. Im also mindful that the parts  Miss G says were 
affected were all subject to general wear and tear of the car  which  Id expect  to see some  
sign of given the age and mileage of the car. Miss G had also driven  the car over 3,000 
miles since it was supplied  to her which would have contributed to the wear and tear of these 
parts.  
As a result, it remains that I havent  seen sufficient evidence the car wasnt of satisfactory  
quality when it was supplied to Miss G. 
Because Im not satisfied the car was of unsatisfactory quality or that the mileage  had been  
tampered with when it was supplied to Miss G, I dont think Miss G was entitled to reject the 
car. As a result, she remained responsible for the payments  required under  the hire 
purchase agreement.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given here and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June  2019.
Michelle Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4038525