K821x#15complaint
Mr T says Provident Personal  Credit  Limited  (trading as Satsuma) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about nine high-cost short term credit instalment loans that Satsuma 
provided to Mr T from January 2016  onwards. Mr Ts last loan was provided in February 
2018. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ts complaint and thought that he shouldnt  have been provided 
with loans 5 to 9. Satsuma didnt respond  to our adjudicators assessment. So the complaint 
was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history with Mr T, I think that Satsuma 
should reasonably have  seen that Mr T was unlikely to have been  able to make his 
payments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan 5. 
Ref: DRN40169322I say this because  by this stage, Mr Ts pattern of was indicative of his loans having become 
unsustainable for him. There was a break of a few months between  loans 3 and 4 but Mr T 
had a number  of applications  declined  by Satsuma during this period.  I dont  know why these 
applications were  declined. But, in my view,  these repeated applications  notwithstanding  
the fact that theyd been declined - demonstrated Mr Ts reliance upon  this type of credit. 
This pattern of borrowing  went on to continue over an extended number of loans and over a 
period of over two years. Im not persuaded that Mr T having  repaid these loans means  that 
they were sustainable  for him or that it was fair and reasonable  for Satsuma to have 
provided them in the first place.
Mr T had to pay interest and charges on loans that Satsuma shouldnt have provided him 
with. So I think that he lost out and Satsuma should put things  right.
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr T paid on loans  5 to 9;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
all reference to loans  5 to 9 should be removed from Mr Ts credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ts complaint. Provident Personal 
Credit Limited should pay Mr T compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4016932