K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains NewDay Ltd, trading as Debenhams, will not refund a disputed transaction.
background
Mr T complained to NewDay in March  2018 about a transaction which had appeared on his 
credit card earlier that month.   It was for just over £50 and Mr T said he neither made nor 
recognised it.  The  payment  was made  through  an online payment system   P.
NewDay carried out the chargeback process for him  a procedure whereby it (NewDay)  can 
challenge the merchant to whom  the payment was made.  The merchant  responded with 
information showing that the item(s)  purchased with that transaction was sent to Mr Ts 
registered address.
Generally speaking, the chargeback procedure should  allow  Mr T the opportunity to respond 
to this evidence.   It was sent to him  but Mr T said he never received it and so did not 
respond.
NewDay concluded that he had authorised the transaction  and rejected his complaint.
Mr T then came  to this service and our investigator did not think  he could ask NewDay to do 
anymore.  So, Mr T asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Having done so, I have come  to a different conclusion than the investigator.  I have 
explained my reasons  for doing so to both Mr T and NewDay.  I have  not had a response  
from either with any further  submissions.
I am pleased  to see that NewDay  carried  out the chargeback procedure   there is no 
requirement for it do so but is considered to be good practice.   Unfortunately,  Mr T was not 
able to respond to the evidence presented because he said he didnt  receive it.  If it was sent 
to Mr T, I cant see that NewDay did anything wrong  here. Although, I do make  the point  that 
whilst the postal address  showed Mr Ts address on the order,  I have not seen any evidence  
that the items were ever delivered to his address.
However, the chargeback procedure is just one element of assessing the complaint.  The 
relevant rules which govern banking relationships between the consumer and banks say that 
for transactions to be deemed  to be authorised, the consumer must also consent to it being 
made.
Ive read and listened to everything Mr T has had to say about  this transaction,  and based  on 
that, I dont  think he did consent  and so, I cant see how the payment was authorised.
In the circumstances, I think NewDay should  refund the amount of the disputed  transaction 
and pay Mr T compensation of £100  for the distress  and inconvenience he has been caused.
Ref: DRN42235352my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  NewDay  Ltd should refund  the amount of 
the disputed transaction and pay Mr T £100  in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4223535