K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Cofunds Limited stopped  processing his direct  debit mandate  for his 
ISA account and that it hasnt acted fairly or promptly to correct  this error or offered 
adequate compensation.
background
Cofunds informed  Mr C in November 2017  that it wouldnt be able to take his December 
direct debit due to a system upgrade but it would  take a double  payment in January 2018  to 
make up for this. In fact, it continued not taking direct debits, something Mr C repeatedly  
pursued. 
In April 2018 it apologised for these failures  and said the problem was with Mr Cs individual  
account (rather than the system upgrade) and it was still trying to fix this. It said that it would 
ensure that Mr C was not financially disadvantaged  by its failure  to take the direct  debits  in 
question by allowing  him to pay the missing amounts, implying that it would purchase  the 
number of units which wouldve been  bought  if the direct debits had been paid on time. It 
also said it would also ensure that these  were included in the right tax years ISA allocation.  
It paid Mr C £100 in compensation for its errors and refunded fees of £108. Subsequently,  in 
June, it told Mr C that it had still not solved the back-payment  issue  and paid him a further 
£100 in lieu of this. It also said it was now in a position to accept his direct  debits going 
forward so he should re-authorise these.
Mr Cs complained to this service in July 2018.  He said:
He had had to make numerous calls to try and resolve this problem and yet still 
Cofunds was not able to sort out the back-payments
He wants it to provide  the calculations about what his back-payments will buy in 
terms of units  so he can decide  what to do about this issue
This situation has meant hed not been  able to start a new ISA with a different 
company until this was resolved,  something  he was considering  doing
This has caused him considerable stress  and its compensation doesnt reflect this
He is incensed that it is asking for a new direct debit to be set up under  the old 
system
An investigator at this service did not feel his complaint should be upheld. 
She acknowledged that Cofunds had made a number of errors but felt it had apologised and 
offered reasonable compensation for these. Crucially, she said it had offered to put things 
right by ensuring Mr C could be put in the position he would now be in but for its mistakes 
i.e. by ensuring that any back-payments  purchased the same number of shares  or units that 
would have been acquired  if the direct debits  had gone ahead. It also guaranteed that these  
would be registered  in the 2017/18  tax year.
Mr C did not agree, and said:
Cofunds has offered  no more  compensation since hes brought  his complaint to the 
ombudsman service
He has not made any further payments into his Cofunds-held  ISA as it has not 
promised that any payments  would be processed without error
Ref: DRN44779322It has still not said whether hes made a loss by not being able to make  the direct  
debits when planned so he has not paid the missing  payments. Why should he do 
this when it hasnt  said whether he would  be paying more or less for the units  than a 
year ago?
It has also wrongly continued to take fees while this complaint is ongoing
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the investigator 
and for the same  reasons.
My role, and that of this service, is to assess  where a business has made a mistake and 
admitted it  whether its offer of compensation is broadly  fair and reasonable. Crucially, 
whether it has offered  to put a client back in the same financial position they would now be in 
if the error  had not occurred. This is the role of our service as set out in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys  handbook.
So if Cofunds offer was broadly fair there is no reason why it should increase this simply 
because Mr C brought his complaint here. Equally, if the investigator  felt the offer was fair 
then she was right to conclude that the complaint should not be upheld.
I am satisfied that Cofunds offer would put Mr C back in the position  he would now be in if 
his direct debit mandates had been accepted.  What  it said,  in several letters, is that if Mr C 
makes the back-payments it will carry out a comparison to ensure he is not disadvantaged 
as a result  of the delayed purchases. I assume  this means that if the units were cheaper at 
the point the direct debits should have  been taken it will buy this number  of units with the 
back-payments. From what Ive read, it will not do so if the prices have fallen since so Mr C 
would then benefit from this unfortunate mess. It will also ensure HMRC is notified that 
these should count as 2017/18 ISA contributions.
If Cofunds had not upheld  Mr Cs complaint and made this offer, this is exactly what  I would 
have instructed it to do. As it made  this offer prior to Mr C referring his complaint here, my 
role is to consider  solely whether its compensation offer was adequate. If I believe it is then I 
cannot uphold  the complaint.
I fully understand  why Mr C would  like to know  the current price of the units in question and 
the prices on the dates  when they would  have been purchased  had everything  been dealt 
with correctly. I hope Cofunds  will provide this information. Clearly if the price of the units  
has fallen since then there is no point in effectively  buying them at the earlier price. But, from 
what Ive read it, will use current  prices  if these are more favourable. So either way Mr C will 
not be worse off. But its failure to do so, to date,  is not in my opinion a ground  on which to 
uphold this complaint.
 
Equally, I can understand why Mr C might wish to either transfer his ISA portfolio or start a 
new one with a different  provider but he can do both these things once he decides  whether 
he wants to make the back-payments. Ive seen no indicate that he has lost out financially by 
not doing so to date. Even though his 2017/18 ISA contributions have not been finalised due 
to this problem  does not prevent him using this years allowance  via a different provider.
I acknowledge that this issue took an excessive,  and probably unnecessary, time to resolve 
but I dont think  Cofunds  offer of £200  plus a return of fees between January  and April was 
Ref: DRN44779323unreasonable or completely out of line with what this service would have suggested if it had 
not made any redress offer. From what Ive read,  Cofunds refunded  the fees from January to 
April, the period during  which it failed  to process direct debits as it promised to do. I dont 
think it need refund the fees from May onwards.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4477932