K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that George Banco.com  Limited  treated him unfairly.  He was a guarantor on 
three loans  provided  by George Banco.com  to a very close  family member (the borrower). 
Amongst other things he says that George Banco.com was irresponsible when it accepted 
him as a guarantor because  it didnt adequately  check  that hed be able to afford  to repay  
the loans if the borrower failed to do so.
background
Mr K agreed to be a guarantor on three  loans taken  by the borrower  as follows (I have 
rounded the figures for ease of reference):
 date takenprincipal 
amounttermmonthly 
repaymentstotal 
repayable
1 05/08/16 £3,000 48 £125 £5,991
2 13/03/17 £4,000 60 £150 £9,021
3 13/10/17 £6,000 60 £226 £13,538
Part of the principal  amount of Loan 2 was used  to settle Loan 1. Similarly £3,824 from Loan 
3s principal amount  was used to settle  Loan 2.
Mr K and the borrower lived together in the same house. Mr K paid the borrower some rent. 
The borrower made all the repayments towards Loans 1 and 2. Mr K hadnt been called 
upon to make any repayments  on Loan  3 until after the borrower  suddenly  died in late 2018. 
Since that time George  Banco.com has tried to enforce the guarantee and indemnity 
agreement against  Mr K.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Ks complaint. As Mr K hadnt been required to pay 
anything towards Loans  1 and 2 she didnt think Mr K had lost out even if George 
Banco.com had done something  wrong.  But she concluded that George Banco.com 
shouldnt have accepted Mr K as the borrowers  guarantor at the point they took Loan  3. So 
she upheld Mr Ks complaint and also recommended  that George Banco.com pay him some 
compensation for the trouble and upset  it had caused him after the time it had been  notified 
of the borrowers  death. 
George Banco.com  doesnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has come to me 
- an ombudsman - for a final decision. If Mr K accepts  my decision it will be binding on the 
parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Even if George  Banco.com did something wrong  in relation to Loans  1 and 2 and Mr Ks role 
as guarantor on those  loans, it doesnt  seem  that he has lost out. So I'm only looking into 
what happened as regards Loan  3. However  Loans  1 and 2 do form part of the background 
in this case and so reference is made to them in this decision. 
Ref: DRN49512212George Banco.com  provided the loan in question while it was authorised  and regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA).
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with. These  included  PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says: A firm must 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The Consumer Credit  sourcebook (CONC)  sets out the rules  and guidance which  apply to 
guarantor loan providers  like George Banco.com  when  providing loans. CONC 5 sets out a 
firms obligations in relation to responsible lending.  
Section 5.2.1R of CONC sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
borrower a loan. It says:
(1) Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must undertake
an assessment of the creditworthiness of the customer.
And at Section  5.2.1(2) it says a firm must consider:
(a) the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to 
adversely impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account  the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement  is to 
be made; and
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of 
the regulated  credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable  period.
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  
on, for example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought  and the potential  risks to 
the customer. The risk of credit not being  sustainable directly  relates  to the amount  of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit  relative  to the customers  financial 
situation.
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account  more than assessing the customers ability 
to repay  the credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) 
should include the firm taking reasonable steps  to assess the customers  ability to 
meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement  in a sustainable manner 
without the customer  incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse  
consequences.
CONC 5.3.1G(6) clarifies  what  is meant  by sustainable:
Ref: DRN49512213 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated 
credit agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue  difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within  a reasonable period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and 
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
CONC 5.3.1G (4) adds  that if a firm does take account of income  and expenditure in its 
credit worthiness assessment:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the  
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
(c) its assessment should be based  on what  the firm knows at the time of the 
assessment
CONC also contains the additional  obligations owed by guarantor  loan providers to 
guarantors when providing a guarantor loan.  The additional requirements in relation to an 
assessment of the guarantors circumstances are contained in CONC 5.2.5R. It says: 
(1) This rule applies if, in relation to a regulated  credit agreement:
(a)  an individual other than the borrower (in this rule referred to as the 
guarantor) is to provide  a guarantee or an indemnity (or both); and
(b)  the lender  is required to undertake  an assessment  of the customer under 
CONC 5.2.1R or CONC 5.2.2R.
(2) Before entering  into the regulated credit agreement, the lender must 
undertake an assessment of the potential  for the guarantors  commitments in 
respect of the regulated credit  agreement to adversely impact the guarantors 
financial situation.
(3) A firm must consider sufficient information to enable it to make  a reasonable 
assessment under this rule, taking  into account  the information  of which  the firm is 
aware at the time the regulated credit  agreement is to be made.
(4) For the purposes of (2), CONC 5.2.3G, CONC 5.2.4G and CONC 5.3.1G to 
CONC 5.3.8G apply  as if:
(a) references to the customer were  references  to the guarantor;  and
Ref: DRN49512214(b) references to CONC  5.2.2R(1) were references to CONC 5.2.5R(2).
This last paragraph means that some  of the rules in CONC, relevant to the assessments 
undertaken in respect of a borrower,  apply equally to assessments in respect of a guarantor.  
So the bar isnt lower  when lenders  are making  an assessment as regards the guarantor. 
They have the same obligations  in relation  to guarantors  as they do for borrowers as regards 
the scope of the assessment, what is proportionate,  and the assessment of the guarantors  
ability to meet repayments  in a sustainable manner without incurring financial difficulties or 
experiencing significant consequences.
CONC 5.2.6G clarifies  this further  and contains  some guidance on the scope of the 
assessment of the guarantor. And it says:
(1) The assessment  of the guarantor does not need to be identical to the 
assessment undertaken in respect of the borrower, but should be sufficient in 
depth and scope having regard to the potential obligations  which  might fall on 
the guarantor.
(2) The provision of the guarantee or indemnity  (or both),  and the assessment of 
the guarantor  under  CONC 5.2.5R, does not remove or reduce  the obligation 
on the lender  to carry out an assessment of the borrower under CONC 5.2.1R 
or CONC 5.2.2R. Firms are reminded of the rule in CONC  5.3.4R that the 
assessment of the borrower must not be based primarily  or solely  on the 
value of any security provided  by the borrower.
CONC 4 sets out a firms obligations,  in relation to the provision of information, prior to 
contracting with consumers. A firm is required to provide adequate explanations when 
providing loans.  The additional explanations firms  are required to provide to guarantors  are 
set out in CONC 4.2.22R. It says:  
(1) This rule applies if:
(a) a firm is to enter into a regulated credit agreement;  and
(b) an individual other than the borrower (in this rule referred to as the 
guarantor) is to provide a guarantee or an indemnity (or both) in 
relation to the regulated credit  agreement
(2) The firm must,  before making the regulated credit agreement,  provide  the 
guarantor with an adequate explanation of the matters in (3) in order to place 
the guarantor  in a position to make an informed  decision as to whether to act 
as the guarantor in relation to the regulated credit agreement.
(3) The matters are:
(a) the circumstances in which the guarantee  or the indemnity (or both) 
might be called on; and
(b) the implications for the guarantor of the guarantee or the indemnity (or 
both) being called on.
(4) For the purposes of (2), the rules and guidance listed in (5) apply as if:
(a) references to the customer were  references  to the guarantor;  and
(b) references to CONC 4.2.5R were references to this rule.
Ref: DRN49512215(5) The rules and guidance are:
(a) CONC 4.2.6G to CONC 4.2.7AG;
CONC 4.2.6G (referred  to above) says:
The explanation provided by a lender  or a credit  broker under CONC 4.2.5 R should 
enable the customer  to make a reasonable assessment as to whether the customer 
can afford the credit and to understand the key associated risks.
CONC 4.2.7G says:
In deciding on the level and extent of explanation  required by CONC 4.2.5 R, the 
lender or credit broker  should  consider (and each of them should ensure that anyone 
acting on its behalf  should consider), to the extent appropriate to do so, factors 
including:
(1) the type of credit  being sought;
(2) the amount  and duration of credit  to be provided;
the actual and potential costs of the credit;
(2B) the risk to the customer arising from the credit (the risk to the customer is 
likely to be greater the higher the total cost of the credit  relative to the 
customers financial situation);
(2C) the purpose of the credit, if the lender or (as the case may be) the credit  
broker knows what that purpose  is;
(3) to the extent it is evident and discernible,  the customer's level of understanding of 
the agreement, and of the information  and the explanation provided  about the 
agreement; and
(4) the channel  or medium through which the credit transaction  takes place.
Finally CONC  3 sets out a firms  obligations  when communicating with its customers. And     
CONC 3.3.2R contains general guidance regarding the clarity  of a firms communications 
with customers. It says:
A firm must ensure that a communication  or a financial promotion:
(1) uses plain and intelligible language 
(2) is easily legible (or, in the case of any information given orally,  clearly audible)
Whilst CONC sets out the regulatory framework that authorised consumer credit providers 
have to adhere to it represents a minimum standard for firms. And - as an ombudsman - Im 
also required  to take into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are four overarching questions I need  to consider in order  to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ks complaint. The questions are:
1. Did George Banco.com complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy  
itself that the borrower would be able to repay  this loan in a sustainable way? 
If so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
Ref: DRN49512216If not, would  those checks have shown that the borrower wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did George Banco.com obtain Mr Ks properly informed consent  before binding him 
to the guarantee and indemnity agreement?
3. Did George Banco.com complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy  
itself that Mr K was in a position  repay the loan in the event the borrower did not?
If so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
If not, would  those checks have shown that Mr K wouldve been  able to do so?
4. Did George Banco.com act unfairly  or unreasonably in some  other  way?
If I determine that George Banco.com  didnt  act fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr 
K and that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider  how George Banco.com should  
put things right.
1. Did George  Banco.com complete reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that the borrower would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way? 
Ive outlined above some  of the regulations in place at the time George Banco.com provided 
the loan to the borrower. It had to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of 
whether they could  afford to repay their loan in a sustainable way. The fact that there was a 
guarantee and indemnity agreement in place - and so the potential  for George Banco.com to 
pursue Mr K instead  of the borrower - doesnt lessen that obligation.
However, as I've mentioned,  the borrower  has passed away. And the personal  
representatives of the estate are not parties  to this complaint. I dont have information about  
the borrowers circumstances or evidence of what George Banco.com did before it agreed to 
lend to them. But in any event, I dont think I need  to make a finding on this question for 
reasons Ill explain  below.
2. Did George  Banco.com obtain Mr Ks properly informed consent  before binding him 
to the guarantee  and indemnity agreement?
George Banco.com  was required to obtain  Mr Ks properly informed consent before binding  
him to the guarantee and indemnity  agreement.  This could only be done after having 
provided him with an adequate explanation of the circumstances in which the guarantee and 
indemnity might be called  upon and what the implications of this would be for Mr K. 
Mr Ks representative argues that the guarantee isnt enforceable against  Mr K because 
there wasnt a term in the guarantee  and indemnity agreement which expressly  stated he 
would be required to repay the loan in the event  of the borrowers death. In other  words  Mr K 
thinks that the guarantee isnt enforceable in this situation. 
I have seen a copy of the loan agreement signed  by the borrower. It does state that George  
Banco.com shall be entitled to call on the guarantee in a number of situations  including:  if 
you die.
Ref: DRN49512217There is no similar term expressed in the guarantee and indemnity agreement  signed  
electronically by Mr K. I accept that George Banco.com may have  provided  a copy of the 
borrowers signed loan agreement to Mr K but given that he did not sign that  and was only 
required to sign the guarantee  and indemnity agreement I have some concerns about  
whether George Banco.com is correct in its assertion that the guarantee is enforceable in 
these circumstances.
However  as with question 1  I dont need to make a finding on this issue  because,  even if 
Im mistaken and the term in the credit agreement means that the guarantor  remains  liable in 
the event of the borrowers death,  I am upholding Mr Ks complaint for other reasons. Im 
satisfied that George  Banco.com failed to do enough  in respect of its obligations under 
question 3.   
3. Did George  Banco.com complete reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mr K was in a position to repay  the loan in the event  the borrower  did not?  If 
so, did it make  a fair lending decision? If not, would those checks have shown that Mr 
K wouldve been able to do so?
The rules  and regulations required George Banco.com to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment  of whether Mr K could afford to repay this loan in a sustainable 
manner should  the borrower  fail to do so. It had to carry out this guarantor-focused  
assessment in addition  to any checks  it was required  to undertake in relation to the 
borrower. In effect  this meant that George Banco.com had to ensure that, if the guarantee 
was enforced  against Mr K, it wouldnt adversely impact Mr Ks financial situation. It had to 
consider the effect of having to make the loan repayments on Mr K if the borrower didnt.
The checks  George Banco.com did had to be proportionate to the specific  circumstances of 
the loan.  And what is proportionate will depend  on a number of factors  including things like 
the consumers  financial history and current situation as well as things  such as the amount, 
type, cost of the credit being sought.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is likely 
to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended period); 
Ive carefully considered  what a reasonable and proportionate check  shouldve  looked like 
when George Banco.com was in the process  of approving  Mr K as the guarantor  for this loan 
which - to confirm - was a loan of £6,000 to be repaid  over the following five years. The 
monthly repayments were  to be around  £226,  meaning that the total to be repaid was over 
£13,500. 
In its response to our adjudicators assessment George Banco.com raises  some questions 
about proportionate checks. Ive thought about  these but it hasnt persuaded me that George 
Banco.com did enough in this case. And in any event,  like our adjudicator, I think that the 
Ref: DRN49512218information George  Banco.com already had was sufficient for it to conclude  that the 
repayment of Loan  3  if Mr K were to be called on as guarantor   would be unsustainable 
for him.
However, as George  Banco.com has concerns about the matter perhaps  it would  be helpful 
if I outlined my conclusions on this issue.
The loan in question was the third loan taken by the borrower in 14 months. The borrower 
had begun by borrowing  £3,000 over 48 months with monthly repayments of around £125 
(Loan 1). Seven months later they refinanced Loan 1 with Loan 2. This was for £4,000 but of 
that the borrower received  only around £1,020 because £2,980 went directly  to settle Loan 
1. The repayments  for Loan 2 increased to £150 per month and the term was extended  
most likely to keep down the monthly cost - to 60 months.
Seven months  after taking  Loan  2 the borrower  refinanced again with Loan 3. This time the 
loan was for £6,000 of which the borrower  received around £2,175  because  the rest went to 
settle directly Loan 2.
Mr K was the guarantor  on each  occasion. Despite the amount being borrowed doubling, 
and the repayments increasing to £226, it seems that George Banco.com did the same  
checks as it had for Loans 1 and 2. From  my understanding George Banco.com actually did 
less because it had verified Mr Ks income through payslips for at least one the earlier  loans: 
it didnt do this for Loan 3. 
Potentially Mr K couldve been  liable for the repayment of the whole  loan  a significant sum 
of over £13,500 over 60 months. In other words George  Banco.com  couldve pursued 
payments from Mr K as the guarantor of £226 each month for five years  from October 
2017 to September 2022. This was a very serious commitment for anyone but, particularly 
so for someone in Mr Ks circumstances  some details of which  George Banco.com  was 
aware. As such it warranted  a thorough assessment to ensure that hed be able to repay  it in 
a sustainable  manner.
As I've mentioned,  under  CONC the risk of the credit not being sustainable directly  relates  to 
the amount of credit and the total charge relative  the customers  financial situation (and for 
customer read guarantor).  
And to be sustainable  Mr K had to be able to make the repayments  without  undue  
difficulties. In particular  George  Banco.com  shouldve been satisfied  through  its 
assessment that Mr K would be able to make  repayments on time,  while  meeting  his  other  
reasonable commitments, without having  to borrow to meet the repayments, over the life of 
the agreement  out of income and savings.
I can see that George  Banco.com did some level of credit reference agency  check for Mr K. 
And from what its shown me it doesnt  seem there was anything so adverse that George 
Banco.com shouldve  declined Mr K as guarantor  on the basis  of those results.  But George 
Banco.com was provided  with information  about Mr Ks personal day to day financial 
situation  and it was this which shouldve  concerned George Banco.com.
Mr K had declared a monthly income  of £1,200 at the point each loan was taken. Our 
adjudicator mentioned that she had seen  on his bank statements that his income was 
around £1,300.  But I've looked across the period and I can see that Mr Ks salary varied. 
Sometimes it was less than £1,100. At others  it exceeded the £1,200 hed declared. But a 
Ref: DRN49512219fair ball-park  figure was between £1,200 and £1,300. This is a relatively low income 
compared to the national  average salary at the time which was well over £20,000 per year. 
Even without  taking account  of any expenses Mr K might have had, repayment of a loan at 
£226 per month was going take over one-sixth of his take home  pay. And this was for a loan 
where he hadnt been the principal borrower.
I note that George Banco.com didnt question  whether it was correct that over the 14 months 
of borrowing  the amount  of Mr Ks cost of living figure hadnt changed at all. It had 
remained at £620.  And from what Ive seen this figure wasnt  broken down further  to provide 
details of how it had been reached. 
Of concern to me is the rent figure declared by Mr K at the time he took Loan 3. Ive listened 
to the call recording of the conversation between George  Banco.com  and Mr K prior to Loan 
3 being approved. Mr K told the George Banco.com  member of staff that it varied and was 
roughly between £50 and £100. The George Banco.com member  of staff suggested that he 
put down £75 and Mr K replied OK. Firstly as George Banco.com was undertaking an 
assessment of Mr Ks ability to repay  the loan if called upon  to do so, I think  it shouldve  
taken the higher figure of £100 for its assessment.
And secondly I note that for Loans 1 and 2 George Banco.com had recorded a rent figure of 
£150. But it doesnt seem  it questioned Mr K about  this reduction. Instead  it simply entered  a 
figure of £75 and proceeded to carry out its assessment based on that. I'm not suggesting 
that Mr K was misleading George  Banco.com  in any way at all. From what I can tell in the 
bank statements it looks as though he was paying  £100. My point is that George Banco.com  
shouldve done  more to confirm the figure than pick a mid-point and run with that especially 
in a situation like this where the margins were so small.
So I think George  Banco.com  shouldve done considerably more than it did to verify Mr Ks 
financial circumstances. However,  despite being satisfied that George Banco.com failed to 
do enough at the point  it assessed whether Mr K would be able to repay Loan 3 sustainably  
if the borrower failed  to do so, even on the information it did obtain,  it shouldnt have 
approved Mr K as the guarantor. 
According to George  Banco.com it obtained  the following information through its checks:
Income £1,200
Fixed credit £143
Revolving credit  £96
Rent £75
Monthly expenditure £620
It says that this therefore left Mr K with £266  per month from which  to meet the repayment of 
the loan. After the loan repayment of £225.63 this left Mr K with a disposable income of 
£40.37. 
Its unclear what the £620 declared as monthly expenditure  included  because as Ive 
mentioned, I havent  seen  anything to suggest that George Banco.com broke this down. But 
Mr K has confirmed  and his bank statements support  this - he was paying around £200-£300 
per month as child maintenance so its likely to have  been included in the £620.  And it 
seems to me that the declared £620 was essentially  Mr Ks regular minimum spend each 
month. I dont think its likely that it included a figure  for unusual, irregular or unexpected 
expenses - or an amount for gifts or socialising.  
Ref: DRN495122110In its response to our adjudicator George Banco.com questions  whether a reasonable 
disposable income is £40, £75, £150  or £200? And it adds that this is for the business to 
decide in compliance with FCA guidance and regulations. 
I dont disagree that as part of its assessment a business may want to decide what sort of 
figure might be a reasonable disposable  income  for someone called upon to repay a loan. 
But that doesnt mean that its decision will not be scrutinised. This is because  whatever 
figure the business decided upon  it also had to consider the risk to Mr K of him not being  
able to repay the credit sustainably. 
I think George Banco.com acted  irresponsibly  when  it concluded  that a monthly  sum of 
£40.37 disposable income from which to meet everything else not included in its list  
potentially for five years  was sufficient.  
In these circumstances George  Banco.com  shouldnt have approved  Mr K as a guarantor. 
As it did, it treated him unfairly  and I require George Banco.com to put things right in the way 
I describe below. 
4. Did George  Banco.com act unfairly  or unreasonably in some other way?
Given the relationship  between  the borrower  and Mr K its not surprising that Mr K has been 
devastated by his loss. In addition to the sadness and grief he has suffered through the 
passing of the borrower, Mr K says hes been caused considerable further upset by the 
conduct of George Banco.com as regards  its contact with him about Loan 3. And from what 
Ive seen I think that George Banco.com has added  to the distress already being  felt by Mr K 
because of the way it behaved after it was informed of the borrowers  death.
Our adjudicator recommended  that George Banco.com pay Mr K £200 for the trouble and 
upset it has caused.  It doesnt agree saying:
In relation to the contact after the death of the borrower, you have asked for £200 to 
be paid as you believe George Banco could have stopped any automated letters and 
emails being sent. This was responded to in our final response  letter  and I am unable  
to ascertain from your review what letters or emails  were incorrectly sent.  We put the 
account on hold and no communication was sent on the agreed times. Whilst I 
appreciate it may have  been good practice to put a hold on communication  
indefinitely, we still required contact  from [Mr K] regarding the account and for him to 
complete an Income  and Expenditure form in order to agree the new repayments if 
he was in financial difficulty.
I understand that a lender  is likely  to want some clarity as to how the person, it deems  is 
responsible for the loan, intends  to repay  it. But it seems to me from George Banco.coms 
response above that it has not taken into account the fundamental principal of treating its 
customer fairly. 
George Banco.com  has provided some contact notes relating to communications on the 
account. Within  about  11 days of the borrower  dying a third party friend of the family called 
George Banco.com  to let it know the news. During  that call George Banco.com  requested  a 
copy of the death  certificate and  according to its notes  discussed the existence of the 
guarantor.
Ref: DRN495122111Later that morning George Banco.com  sent an email to Mr K and the third party to say that it 
was sad to hear of the news. And it attached  an income and expenditure (I&E) form for Mr K 
to complete and return. 
Its apparent from this that George Banco.com was immediately concerned about repayment 
of the loan. A few minutes later Mr K rang George Banco.com and gave it permission to 
speak with the third party.  The notes say that George  Banco.com  advised that the guarantor  
would be liable for the account. It added exclusion to the account meaning  that automated 
contact would cease  for two weeks. There was some discussion over the following days  
about how much it would cost for Mr K to settle  Loan  3  it seems  he wanted  to understand 
his options. The third party also explained  that Mr K didnt think  that the amounts being 
quoted by George Banco.com  were  correct or that it had done enough during its assessment 
of him as guarantor. 
Over the following weeks  which included the Christmas period - George Banco.com made 
numerous attempts  to request payment from the borrowers bank account. Two of these 
were within the exclusion  period.  These  requests were unsurprisingly  declined.  Around a 
month after the initial contact and numerous  attempts to request payment from the 
borrowers account George Banco.com  sent a notice of arrears to the borrower and Mr K by 
email.
The third party again contacted George Banco.com  through email to explain that the notice 
(which included reference to potential legal  action)  to the borrower  had been received by Mr 
K even  though George  Banco.com had been advised of the death of the borrower. They  
added that Mr K was in deep grief and had understood that Mr K would  be allowed a period 
for grieving and to settle affairs. 
The third party added  that the succession  of emails had led to constant upset for Mr K and 
that George  Banco.com had compounded and intensified Mr Ks grieving period with 
additional unnecessary stress. It seems that at that point  George Banco.com did register the 
death of the borrower and cancelled the means to collect repayments from their account.
George Banco.com  replied by email to the third party again  I am sorry for yourself  and [Mr 
Ks] loss. I will need [the borrowers] death  certificate to update the system. Please reply to 
this email with the death certificate. I have  put 7 days breathing space on the account. 
However we do urgently  need to discuss the account with [Mr K] as the arrears are very 
serious. Kind regards
So far as I can see a payment had been  made  at the start of the month  in which  the 
borrower died. This means that at the time of this email  only two repayments  had been 
missed (the second  one was around  8 days past due) so I find the description of the arrears 
as very serious to be somewhat alarming  especially given that George Banco.com was 
aware of the passing of the borrower. I think that this description  is likely to have led to Mr K 
feeling additional concern   especially as discussions were urgently needed. 
Around a week  after this the third party complained  on behalf of Mr K to George Banco.com.  
There was some interim correspondence during  which  I note that the third party called  to say 
that despite having made a formal  complaint  Mr K had received  another letter. George 
Banco.com advised them that the account was in serious arrears  again. The third party  
informed George Banco.com that Mr K would  not be paying until the complaint  had been  
dealt with because  the basis of the complaint itself was that Mr K shouldnt  have to pay.  
George Banco.com  also told the third party that Mr K would  have to pay all the arrears once 
Ref: DRN495122112the complaint  was resolved. This suggested that George Banco.com had already decided  
that Mr Ks complaint  was being  rejected. 
But it wasnt  until ten days later that it sent its final response letter about the complaint to Mr 
K. In this it explained  why it didnt agree that it had done anything wrong. The last paragraph 
of the final response  letter  stated that if George Banco.com did not receive  Mr Ks written 
acceptance of the letter  as its final response  within 21 days  it would interpret that as his 
acceptance and the complaint would be closed. 
Despite that final paragraph providing what appears to be some breathing space, on the 
following day an email and a text were sent to Mr K by George Banco.com. The writer stated  
that they had tried calling  Mr K but hadnt  received a response. It added  The account that 
you guarantee is in serious arrears of £676.89. I only have  a matter of days to work  with 
yourself before the account gets sent over to our pre litigation team  and possible legal action 
requiring. I want to help you and prevent  this from happening. Please call me as a matter of 
urgency today on.  
Just over a week later an email was again  sent to Mr K by George Banco.com after it had 
failed to contact  him through his mobile phone number. On the following day  and still within 
the 21 day period  referred to in the final response letter  - George Banco.com sent Mr K a 
letter. This stated that George Banco.com  had tried to contact Mr K and that his details were 
to be passed on to another party within the next seven days and that a representative may 
be sent to the property  to establish contact  with Mr K. The following  paragraphs  in large  red 
capital letters threatened legal action.
The third party helping  Mr K emailed George Banco.com to confirm  (within the 21 day time 
limit) that Mr K didnt agree to the complaint  being  closed  - apparently unaware that the 
threatening letter had been  sent the day before.  Following  receipt  of that letter the third 
party contacted this Service and emailed George Banco.com to confirm that the complaint 
was continuing.
In response George Banco.com stated that the legal action letter had been  automated  due 
to the level of arrears  on the account and that there was an exclusion on contact  with Mr K 
as regards automated  emails and texts but that George Banco.com couldnt  put a stop on 
letters being  sent out.
As I've said, I understand that a lender is likely to be concerned about how it might recover  a 
debt where the borrower has died. And I dont disagree that a lender should  be able contact 
the parties involved to discuss  the matter of repayment especially where arrears may be 
increasing. But in such circumstances  I think a lender should endeavour to proceed with the 
utmost compassion and care.  I have concerns that George Banco.com apparently doesnt 
have the means  to put a stop on threatening letters going out to its recently bereaved  
customers. Mr K had lost someone very close to him, very suddenly.  On top of that - 
according to George Banco.com, he was now liable  for a significant debt. In this case  
George Banco.com  had been in contact  with the third party who was supporting  Mr K from 
the earliest point.  Mr K had consented to George Banco.com dealing  with that third party in 
relation to the loan. 
And yet George  Banco.com continued to pursue Mr K (and early on, the borrower despite 
being aware they had passed away)  on numerous occasions. I find the tone of much of the 
correspondence to be alarming and later, threatening. I think George Banco.com acted 
unfairly when it pursued Mr K as it did following the death of the borrower.  
Ref: DRN495122113putting things right
I'm satisfied that George  Banco.com acted unfairly  when it accepted Mr K as a guarantor on 
Loan 3. As he is now being expected by George Banco.com to make repayments on a loan 
he shouldnt have been accepted as a guarantor for, I think  he stands to lose out because 
George Banco.com  did something wrong. 
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id expect that business  in so far 
as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer bank in the position  they would be in now 
if that wrong hadnt  taken place. In essence, in this case, this means George Banco.com  
putting Mr K in the position hed now be in if he hadnt  unfairly  and unreasonably been  
accepted as a guarantor  on Loan  3.
I also have the power  to make an award to reflect any trouble or upset George Banco.coms  
wrongdoing has caused Mr K.  Mr Ks representative says that the impact on Mr K from the 
way George Banco.com has behaved towards  him since  the passing of the borrower  has 
had a detrimental impact  on his health. I think George Banco.coms failure to treat Mr K fairly 
during a very difficult period  for him has resulted in Mr K suffering additional upset and 
stress. 
So this is how I require  George Banco.com  to put things right:
a) release Mr K from any obligations under  the guarantee and indemnity 
agreement and then terminate it
b) remove any information  about  this loan from Mr Ks credit file
c) pay Mr K a sum of £200  to reflect the trouble and upset caused to him when 
George Banco.com acted unfairly and/or unreasonably towards him 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I uphold Mr Ks complaint and require George Banco.com 
Limited to put things  right in the way I've explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4951221