K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Q have  complained about  a decreasing term assurance policy  they were sold by
Lifetime Financial Management  Ltd (Lifetime).
background
Mr and Mrs Q took out a decreasing term assurance  policy  in 2006.  The policy was taken to 
protect their borrowing at that time and was set up for a term of eleven years  with a sum 
assured of just over £120,000 which matched the borrowing.
Mr and Mrs Q have  said when they redeemed their mortgage in 2013  they spoke to Lifetime 
on the telephone as they wanted to cancel their policy.  But they were  persuaded to keep the 
policy in place. They have  said during that telephone call they were  told by the adviser to 
pretend they still had a mortgage  in place and keep the policy going.
They have said the policy put financial pressure on them but they kept paying for it because 
of what the adviser  told them.
They also think they should have been advised to take out different type of life protection  at 
this time, or at the very least  their protection should  have been  reviewed  by Lifetime  before  
they had redeemed the mortgage. And they have expressed that at this point in time they 
became unhappy  that the policy sum assured was continuing to decrease but their monthly 
premiums remained stable.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it should  be upheld.  She 
was persuaded  that Mr and Mrs Q wanted to cancel the policy  when they spoke to Lifetime 
in 2013 after they had paid off their mortgage but they were convinced to keep the policy in 
place unnecessarily. She felt that while it still provided life cover, because they had no 
borrowing in place to protect any longer,  the policy was in fact unsuitable.
Lifetime disagreed  with the assessment and made the following points:
 Its unlikely the adviser told Mr and Mrs Q to pretend  they still had a mortgage in     
  place.
 Given Mr Q had suffered serious  medical  issue a year earlier  given they had 
  cleared a major  financial  commitment, their mortgage, additional or existing life 
  cover  would be useful.
 Given Mr Qs health concerns its likely they made a considered decision based on 
  their circumstances at a time.
 The cancellation of the policy  ultimately  lay with Mr and Mrs Q as the policyholders 
  and its likely they would have understood this and how insurance  policies  generally  
  work.
I issued my provisional findings in April 2019 where  I set out why I disagreed with the 
investigator and why I felt the complaint couldnt be upheld. An extract  is below and forms 
part of this final decision.
I know what Mr and Mrs Q have said about  the telephone call they had with Lifetime  after 
redeeming their mortgage. The recording of the call isnt available  and while I appreciate  this 
is frustrating its not unusual given how long ago the call took place. But because  of this 
Ref: DRN44149942I cant verify what  was discussed between the adviser and Mr and Mrs Q. However, I have to 
say I think its is very unlikely that they were told to pretend they still had the mortgage  in 
place. There would  be no benefit to them  pretending this because the policy  could remain in 
place without a mortgage and would  also pay out without a mortgage  in place had one of the 
lives assured passed away during the term.
With regards to whether  they were  persuaded to keep the policy  in place, again it is difficult 
for me to say with any certainty  exactly what they were told. However,  what  I can say is that 
regardless of what was said, having the policy in place was a good idea and provided useful 
cover for Mr and Mrs Q. As mentioned above, they would still have received a payment 
under the policy  had one of them passed away during the term and this money  couldve 
been used by the remaining person to help with any outstanding  liabilities or just
maintaining a standard of living. Also given this was a life protection policy, any life 
protection policy is worth keeping because it provides valuable  life cover.
Mr and Mrs Q have  said they should  have  been  sold a replacement  policy. I understand why 
they think this but this would have cost them more money than they were paying for the 
decreasing term policy  because of their ages and health conditions. And given, by their own 
admission, they were  already struggling  with meeting the premium of the decreasing term 
policy I dont think a different policy with a more expensive premium  would have been an 
acceptable solution for them. Also in light of Mr Qs recent medical  problems its unlikely they 
would have gotten other cover.
I know they feel that a review of their protection  should have taken place before they 
redeemed the policy. But this isnt the type of relationship  Mr and Mrs Q had with Lifetime.  
This is something a financial adviser  would provide at cost over an ongoing relationship. So 
Lifetime had absolutely no obligation  to carry out this review and in reality  this is something 
that was Mr and Mrs Qs responsibility to request  when they were ready to redeem their 
mortgage.
As well as this, I know  Mr and Mrs Q are unhappy  that they were  paying for a policy  where 
the lump sum pay out decreased over time. But this type of policy  was the most cost 
effective and suitable policy for their requirements  when they took it out in 2006. They 
needed their mortgage  protecting and this policy did that without leaving them paying for 
extra protection that was of no use to them. Also, as I have mentioned above had they taken 
out new and different life protection at that point in time its very likely it would have been 
unaffordable for them.
Lifetime accepted  the findings  of the provisional  decision but didnt provide any comments.
Mrs Q didnt agree with the findings and reiterated that she was told by Lifetime  to pretend  
she still had a mortgage. She also said it put them under extra financial pressure to keep up 
the payments  on the policy which is why they cancelled  the policy after another  two years.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am fully aware how strongly Mr and Mrs Q feel about this issue  and I know  they are 
adamant that they were  told to pretend they still had the mortgage in place.  But I remain  of 
the view that there wouldve been  no benefit  in them being  told this because  the policy  could 
Ref: DRN44149943remain in place and still be of use with or without a mortgage in place.  And nothing  I have  
seen has persuaded me otherwise. So in lieu of any other compelling information I just think  
its unlikely they were told to do this.
As well as this, the policy still provided  useful cover for them even  though there was no 
borrowing to protect and had a claim been  made on the policy it would have paid out a lump 
sum of money that could have  been used during what could  have been  a difficult time.
So overall, I remain of the view that Lifetime  didnt do anything wrong. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Q to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4414994