K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as Moneyboat) gave him 
loans that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
February 2019. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold part of the complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Mr Ws 
representative has said he has nothing more to add. Moneyboat  hasnt responded to my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that neither party has provided 
me with any new or additional evidence or comments I see no reason to alter the 
conclusions I provisionally reached.
If Moneyboat had done what I consider  to be proportionate checks, and in fact the checks  
recommended by its own assessment process,  it would have seen that Mr W couldnt 
sustainably afford to repay loans 2 and 3. So, as a responsible lender, it would have  
declined these loan requests. Moneyboat needs to pay Mr W some  compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Moneyboat should  have agreed  to lend to Mr W after, and including, the loan 
that he took on 26 May 2017 (loans 2 and 3). So for both of those  loans Moneyboat should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr W on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation to the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to take off tax from this interest.  Moneyboat 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Mr W still owes Moneyboat most of the principal balance he borrowed on his final loan. 
Moneyboat may use the compensation that is due to Mr W to reduce that balance.  But, to be 
clear, that outstanding  balance should be recalculated to remove any interest and charges, 
but taking account of any repayments Mr W has made  on that loan as though they were  
applied against  the principal sum borrowed.
Moneyboat should  endeavour to reach  a mutually acceptable repayment arrangement with 
Mr W for any balance  that remains outstanding,  bearing in mind  the need  to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
Ref: DRN40885132my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ws complaint and direct Evergreen Finance 
London Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN40885133EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr W complains  that Evergreen Finance  London Limited  (trading as Moneyboat)  gave him loans that 
he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr W has been represented in making  this complaint  by his father.  But for ease I will refer to all the 
actions below  as having been taken by Mr W.
Mr W was given three loans by Moneyboat between April and August 2017. Each of the loans was 
due to be repaid in monthly instalments - the first loan in two instalments, the second loan in four 
instalments and the final loan in six instalments. Mr W successfully repaid  the first two loans, but a 
balance remains outstanding on his final loan. A summary of Mr Ws borrowing  from Moneyboat is as 
follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment  DateLoan 
Amount 
1 18/04/2017 26/05/2017 £ 250
2 26/05/2017 25/08/2017 £ 800
3 25/08/2017 - £ 800
When Mr W complained to Moneyboat it didnt  agree that it had been wrong to give him the loans. But 
as a gesture of goodwill it offered, in full and final settlement  of the complaint, to remove  the 
outstanding interest from Mr Ws remaining balance. Mr W didnt accept  that offer so brought his 
complaint to this Service.
Mr Ws complaint  has been assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He thought  that the checks  
Moneyboat had done  before lending to Mr W had been  sufficient. And since those  checks suggested 
that the loans were affordable he didnt recommend  that the complaint should  be upheld. Mr W didnt 
agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed 
to me, an ombudsman,  to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Moneyboat was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks  to see whether Mr W could 
afford to pay back each  loan before it lent to him. Those checks  needed to be proportionate to things 
such as the amount Mr W was borrowing, and his lending history,  but there was no set list of checks  
Moneyboat had to do.
Moneyboat has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr W. Before  each loan it asked him 
for details of his income, and his normal expenditure. It also checked Mr Ws credit file each time.  
Moneyboat then compared the credit expenditure Mr W declared with what it could see from his credit 
report, and increased his declared expenditure each time.
Ref: DRN40885134Moneyboats credit checks showed that Mr W had under-declared  his credit expenditure  when he 
applied for each of his loans. As a result it increased his declared expenditure  by £179 at the time of 
loan 1, £225  for loan 2 and £425 for loan 3. And its credit checks revealed that Mr W had previously 
been unable to repay his outstanding credit. He had entered a Debt  Relief Order in 2013.  So I think  
these were important factors that Moneyboat needed to bear in mind when deciding  whether to lend 
to Mr W.
The first loan that Mr W took was relatively modest compared to the income he declared  to the lender. 
And the repayments he needed to make appeared easily affordable based on his disposable income, 
even after the increase in credit expenditure that Moneyboat had applied. Despite  what I said above 
about the additional factors that Moneyboat needed to consider I think it was reasonable here for 
Moneyboat to not do any additional checks  before lending to Mr W. I dont think  Moneyboat was 
wrong to give him this loan.
Mr W repaid the two instalments for his first loan as planned. But on the same day he paid the final 
instalment he asked to borrow again. And the amount he asked to borrow had increased significantly.  
I think  the fact that Mr W asked to borrow again straightaway,  the rapid  escalation in the amount of his 
borrowing, and his serious financial problems just a few years  before, should have caused great 
concerns to Moneyboat. And from the information it had gathered Moneyboat was aware that Mr W 
had under-declared at least one aspect of his normal  expenditure.
I can see from the documentation that Moneyboat  has provided to us that its own automated systems  
flagged a number of these  issues. It reported that Mr W had a history  of bankruptcy. And it noted  that 
this loan request appeared to be repeat  borrowing.  As a result the automated process recommended 
that a manual review  of Mr Ws application was required  and also suggested that Moneyboat should 
request copies of Mr Ws bank statements.  That is exactly the sort of check that I would  have 
expected a lender to do in these circumstances  but I cant see that Moneyboat asked for any 
additional information from Mr W. As a result  I dont  think  the checks it did here were proportionate.
Mr W repaid his second loan around a month early. But on the same day he asked to borrow again. 
He applied to borrow an even larger amount than before,  but Moneyboat said it was only willing  to 
lend him the same as on loan 2. But I think this pattern of behaviour from Mr W should again have put 
the lender on notice  that it was unlikely  his finances were as healthy as he was declaring. 
I can see that once again Moneyboats automated system required that Mr W be asked for copies of 
his bank statements. I too think that would  have been a proportionate check here and since once 
more Moneyboat didnt gather any additional information from Mr W, I dont think its checks  were  
enough.
But although  I dont  think the checks Moneyboat did before agreeing loans 2 and 3 were  sufficient, 
that in itself doesnt  mean that Mr Ws complaint should succeed. Id also need to be persuaded that 
the proportionate checks Ive described above  would have shown Moneyboat  that Mr W couldnt 
sustainably afford the loans. So Ive looked at Mr Ws bank statements, and what  hes told us about 
his financial situation, to see what better checks would have shown Moneyboat.
Moneyboat had verified Mr Ws income. So the income  he declared is broadly what  is shown on his 
bank statements. But his bank statements show that his expenditure  was far higher than he declared 
to Moneyboat, not only in terms of his credit expenditure, but also his everyday  living costs such  as 
rent and utility bills. Mr Ws bank statements also show that he was borrowing  very heavily, and in 
ever increasing  amounts,  from a number of other short term lenders  loans that he was already  
committed to repaying  at the same time as his borrowing from Moneyboat. The effect  of all that is that 
Mr W had no disposable income that he could  use to make sustainable repayments.
If Moneyboat had done what  I consider  to be proportionate checks, and in fact the checks 
recommended by its own assessment process, it would  have seen that Mr W couldnt  sustainably  
afford to repay  loans 2 and 3. So, as a responsible lender, it would  have declined these loan requests. 
Moneyboat needs to pay Mr W some compensation.
Ref: DRN4088513