K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays  Bank  PLC (when  it was trading as Woolwich  Building Society) 
mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) with his mortgage.
Barclays Bank PLC is responsible for dealing with this complaint. So from now on, to keep 
things simple, Ill just refer to Barclays in my decision.
background
Mr C took out a mortgage in 1995  and he was sold PPI around the same time.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold his mis-selling complaint. Mr C didnt agree with this view.  He 
says it wasnt made  sufficiently clear to him that the PPI was optional - and if hed known  this 
he wouldnt  have taken  it out. 
Mr C is also concerned that when he first complained to Barclays  it gave him some  incorrect  
information about the PPI. Our adjudicator has explained that this is a separate  issue that 
Mr C needs to take up directly with Barclays before  this service  can become involved. So, 
just to be clear, in my decision Im only looking at Mr Cs complaint that he was mis-sold PPI 
when he took out a mortgage in 1995.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know exactly what, if anything, was discussed  about the PPI when Mr C took it out. It 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect him to recall  in detail precisely what was said at the time. 
So what  Mr C says now isnt enough  on its own for me to be able to uphold  this complaint. 
I must look at everything and decide  what I think is most likely. 
Normally, Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been  presented. The bank cant  provide anything  signed by 
Mr C from the sale. But this isnt surprising, given how long ago this sale happened.
Although Barclays cant  tell us how the policy was sold, Mr C remembered arranging his 
mortgage in a branch. And Barclays has provided an example of the sort of mortgage  
application Mr C couldve filled in. That mightve  been what  happened. But, theres nothing  to 
show for certain how Mr C applied for the PPI. So, to be as fair as possible to Mr C, given  
the lack of information thats available now, Im not going to make any assumption  that this is 
the same  as the application Mr C completed. 
But, based on what we know  about the way Barclays sold PPI to mortgage customers  
around this time, I dont  think its likely  that PPI wouldve  been  added to his account unless 
Mr C had asked for this to happen. Having PPI wasnt a requirement of the mortgage. 
Ref: DRN47582962A personal  illustration prepared for Mr C sets out the costs  he could expect to pay for PPI. 
So it seems  likely that this was something  he had at least discussed, and possibly expressed 
an interest in having.
Overall, I dont  find the evidence is strong enough  for me safely to say that Barclays  didnt 
make it clear  that it was open to Mr C not to choose  PPI if he didnt want to have it. His 
mortgage was a major financial commitment,  and his home wouldve been at risk if his 
mortgage payments  werent kept up to date. So, I can see why he mightve felt PPI was 
useful to have.  On balance, I think its more likely that Mr C decided  he wanted to have the 
benefits and security that PPI offered and he chose to buy the policy.  
Barclays has looked at this complaint on the basis that it advised him to buy the PPI. In the 
circumstances, I think  thats fair. It imposes an additional obligation on Barclays  and looking 
at the complaint this way gives Mr Cs complaint the best chance of success. If a financial 
business makes a recommendation about PPI it has to take reasonable steps to make  sure 
the cover  it recommends  is suitable  as well as giving  important policy information in a clear 
way. 
Barclays told us that it doesnt  any longer have a policy document from the date Mr C took 
out PPI. But it has provided information  which shows  the sort of terms and conditions that 
policies like this offered. And based  on what weve seen when dealing with complaints, 
I think its likely that in all main respects the policy that Mr C took out wouldve had similar 
terms and conditions.
I dont see any reason why a PPI recommendation for Mr C wouldnt have been suitable 
based on what Ive seen of Mr Cs circumstances at the time. Theres  nothing  to suggest that 
Mr C wasnt eligible for the policy. Its likely  the policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit for up 
to 12 months per claim  in the event of accident,  sickness and unemployment. Repeat claims 
were possible  which means  the policy gave Mr C long term protection  for his mortgage.  
Mr C doesnt appear  to have had any significant other means  he couldve relied on to make 
his mortgage monthly  repayments if he wasnt working. So, looking at Mr Cs circumstances 
at the time, I think the PPI was suitable.  I think the policy couldve been  useful  to him. 
Some of the information Barclays gave Mr C about the PPI mightnt have been as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  So its possible  there may have been some  failings in the way this policy 
was sold. But the policy gave Mr C useful protection in his particular situation and Ive seen 
nothing to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for him. Taking everything into account, I think 
Mr C still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if hed been given clearer information. 
This means  I dont  find that Mr C has lost out as a result of anything that Barclays  mightve 
done wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN47582963my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4758296