K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  the settlement offered by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) 
for the loss of a ring is unfair. 
background
Mr and Mrs Ts Tescos  home insurance policy is provided by RSA.  In April 2018 they made 
a claim for the loss of several  items,  including an engagement ring, following  a break in at 
their home. RSA appointed one of its jewellery  specialists in relation to the lost ring  Ill call 
them LMG.
LMG valued the ring at £1,500. This was based  on a 9ct gold ring, platinum set with three  
diamonds. But Mr and Mrs T werent  happy  with this as they say the ring was 18ct gold and 
a fair valuation would be in the region of £2,500. RSA asked Mr and Mrs T if they could 
provide any evidence such as a receipt or other  proof showing the make-up of the ring. As 
the ring was bought over 20 years ago Mr and Mrs T havent been  able to provide proof of 
ownership or a receipt showing details of the ring bought. Because of that RSA has stood by 
the value offered. 
Mr and Mrs T complained about being asked to provide  such information and because  they 
dont think the settlement  is fair. RSA didnt uphold the complaint. It said LMG  was right to 
ask for evidence showing the ring was 18ct and in the absence  of such evidence  it 
considered a valuation based  on 9ct to be fair. And it pointed  out that it hadnt actually 
received evidence of ownership of the ring yet were  willing to make a settlement offer.  
Not happy with that, Mr and Mrs T asked us to look into the matter. Our investigator 
concluded the offer made was fair. Although Mr and Mrs T had provided a photograph,  that 
didnt show the ring was 18ct. Mr and Mrs T have asked for the matter  to be reviewed.  They  
say the terms of the policy dont explain they would need to prove their losses and they were 
unhappy at the amount of questions asked. They say the policy provides cover for up to 
£20,000 and remain unhappy with the settlement offered. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im satisfied the 
settlement offered by RSA is fair.
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy that RSA asked them so many questions  and asked  for proof  of 
ownership of the ring. They  argue  that had they known  they would need to provide such 
proof they could have  obtained a valuation or some such other evidence while  they still had 
it. 
As policyholders  it is for Mr and Mrs T to show they have a valid claim under the policy  
this is a general principle  of insurance.  So if they are claiming for items being stolen, as well 
as meeting any conditions found  in the policy,  they would need to show  ownership of the 
items  that is, its for them to validate  their claim. I dont consider this requirement  is 
unusual or significant such  that I would expect to see an express explanation of this in the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN42690702To suggest an insurer shouldnt require proof could lead to insurers paying out claims for 
items that never existed. Whilst I am not suggesting at all that is what  happened here, such  
fraudulent claims are made. Overall, Im satisfied RSA was entitled  to ask for information to 
show Mr and Mrs T had a valid claim.  
I turn now to the settlement  offered  to Mr and Mrs T for the ring. The starting point is the 
agreement between Mr and Mrs T and RSA  the policy terms and conditions. It explains 
under How we settle your claim:  
We will pay for the cost of reinstating, repairing or replacing your buildings and/or 
contents which are covered by this policy. We will decide whether  to pay to 
reinstate, repair  replace,  or pay you the cash value. Where we have offered to repair 
or replace any item and you instead request for us to pay a cash value, we will not 
pay you more than the amount is would have cost for us to repair or replace the 
item.  
RSA has made a cash settlement offer for the ring based on what LMG has said its value 
would be. Im satisfied  RSA is entitled to rely on the information provided to it by the jeweller.  
LMG has valued the ring at £1,500 based  on a description given by Mr and Mrs T  a three 
diamond, platinum  set, gold ring. Aside from their testimony Mr and Mrs T havent been able 
to provide any evidence of the quality of gold in the ring. Indeed, aside from a photograph 
which doesnt clearly  show  the details of the ring, there is little evidence of the ring at all, yet 
RSA have nevertheless  made an offer. In the circumstances  and in the absence of 
persuasive evidence  to show the quality  was higher, Im satisfied a valuation based on 9ct is 
fair.
I do understand Mr and Mrs T will be disappointed by this. As Im satisfied the offer is fair, I 
wont be asking RSA to increase it. I simply leave it to Mr and Mrs T to decide  whether  they 
wish to accept the settlement.  
my final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc has agreed  to settle the claim for the ring for £1,500.  I 
conclude the offer is fair. My decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should  pay 
the settlement  - if it hasnt already done so  within 28 days of receiving notice of Mr and Mrs 
Ts acceptance of it. 
Mr and Mrs T should note that if they accept my decision,  it will be legally binding on all 
parties and they probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter  for 
additional compensation. If, however,  they reject the decision, although their legal rights will 
remain intact, itll be purely a matter  between them and RSA as to whether the above offer 
still remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding after rejection of it 
has been communicated.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4269070