K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs P bought the policy  in 1999 at the same time as taking out a loan. The loan 
included an amount to pay for the policy. The policy provided cover for Mrs P if she couldnt  
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint because:
I think Nationwide made Mr and Mrs P aware  the PPI was optional  and that they chose 
to take it out. Nationwide says Mr and Mrs P applied  for the loan and PPI over the 
phone, but Mr and Mrs P say this wasnt the case. 
Nationwide has provided a record of the information  that was taken  during  the loan 
application, and this does suggest that it was made over the phone. From what Ive 
seen, I think its likely  that was the case.
The application notes  record that Mrs P wanted  the PPI. I also note that the PPI is listed 
as Optional Credit Insurance on the loan agreement. So I think Nationwide did enough 
to make Mr and Mrs P aware  that they had a choice about buying the PPI.
Nationwide didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs P so it didnt  have to check  if it was 
suitable for them. 
Mr and Mrs P have  mentioned other means they had to cover  the loan repayments. But it 
seems most of these  were in connection with Mr P rather than Mrs P. As it was Mrs P 
who was covered by the PPI, its her circumstances  that I need  to consider for the 
purpose of deciding whether or not the policy  was mis-sold. Mrs P has told us she was 
entitled to less than three  months  sick pay from her employer. The policy  wouldve paid 
out for longer than this if Mrs P couldnt  work because of sickness  or accident, so I think  
she wouldve had some use for the policy.
The cost of the policy was shown on the loan agreement  including  the amount of the 
premium, the interest payable on the premium and the total cost. So I think  Mr and Mrs P 
Ref: DRN42274242would have understood how much  the PPI would cost if they kept the policy for its full 
term. 
Its possible Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs P would  have been affected by any of these.
When I take all of these  points into account,  Im not persuaded that the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4227424