K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) has treated him 
recently while he has been in financial difficulties. He says in particular it has been  ignoring 
his attempts to make arrangements to clear the arears.  And he says it has not responded to 
the income and expenditure  documents he has sent.  He is also unhappy that Halifax  has 
refused to capitalise the arrears, and move his mortgage to a lower interest rate.
background
Mr R had a mortgage  with Halifax. The mortgage account was in arrears, as Mr R was 
suffering from financial difficulties.
Mr R says that he sent Halifax a breakdown of his expenditure on a number of occasions  
from November 2017, but received no response  from Halifax.  And he says he spent 
considerable time on the telephone to Halifax but didnt receive any help.
Mr R brought his complaint to this service  in September 2018.  He said that he had 
complained to Halifax in May 2018  but had not received a response.
Halifax issued a final response to Mr Rs complaint after being contacted by this service. It 
didnt uphold  his complaint. It said,  in summary:
After a thorough  check of its records it couldnt see that it had received an income  and 
expenditure form in November  2017  or December 2017, or subsequently. It enclosed  a 
further income and expenditure  form for him to complete and return. But it said that the 
preferred method  for completing the income and expenditure form was over the phone. 
And even if Mr R completed a written  income and expenditure  this would still need to be 
reviewed over the phone  once completed.
When considering  a request for a new interest  rate it takes into account the customers  
payment history.  This is due to the costs  involved in providing  the lower interest rate. It is 
not obliged to offer new interest  rates.
 Before agreeing to capitalise the arrears on a customers mortgage  it first needs  to see 
evidence that they are able to consistently  pay their mortgage on a monthly  basis. This is 
achieved by the customer making payments  each month for a period of time.  Capitalising 
the arrears on an account will increase the balance. For this reason, it would carry out a 
review of the customers income  and expenditure to see if the customer  could afford  the 
increased monthly payments.
Our adjudicator felt that Halifax  had dealt  with Mr Rs complaint fairly. She said in particular:
She could see from the transaction statements that arrears had started to build up from 
2014, and continued  to the current day. Due to the amount of arrears  on the account, 
she felt that Halifax  had shown considerable forbearance;
In November 2017 Halifax had reviewed the arrears management fees applied  to Mr Rs 
account. It had decided to refund some fees and included interest at 8% and, as a result, 
his arrears were reduced by £220.97;
Halifax said it had no trace of receiving  an income and expenditure form from Mr R in 
November or December 2017,  or after that time.  It had sent Mr R a further income and 
expenditure form with its final response letter, but said that Mr R had not yet completed 
this. 
Ref: DRN44829052Halifax had explained that Mr R would need  to make 12 full contractual  monthly  
payments in a row before consolidation would be considered.  Unfortunately, as Mr R 
hadnt done so he wouldnt qualify for capitalisation of his arrears;
Halifax had also said that it took payment history into account when considering a 
request for a new interest rate. This was due to the costs involved in providing the lower 
interest rate. Unfortunately, with the amount of arrears Mr R currently had he wouldnt be 
eligible for a new product.
Mr R didnt agree with our adjudicators conclusions. He said he had tried to transfer his 
mortgage to a new product with a lower  rate in May 2015, when there were no arrears  on the 
account, but his application had been  ignored.  He said that he had made  repeated efforts  to 
contact Halifax to resolve the ongoing issues, but had not received any assistance.  And he 
said he had sent in his income and expenditure form on a number of occasions, but hadnt 
heard further  from Halifax. 
Our adjudicator responded to Mr R and said:
Although Mr R said there were no arrears  on his mortgage account in May 2015, the 
transaction history  showed that there were arrears at that time. Halifax  had explained 
that it was unable to consider a product switch where  a mortgage is in arrears.
Halifax said it had checked its systems  and had no trace  of having received an income 
and expenditure  form from Mr R. It had provided  this service with a screen shot from its 
internal system to confirm this.
Mr R said he had been held on the phone for several hours trying to speak to Halifax. 
Whilst she didnt doubt what  he said, the first thing  Halifax would do would  be to 
complete an income and expenditure form over the telephone, but this was never done. 
It would  also try to agree  a payment arrangement  for repayment of the arrears,  but 
Halifax said that this had never been agreed.
As agreement has not been reached  Mr Rs complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
adjudicator that Halifax has dealt with Mr Rs complaint  fairly.  I realise  that this will come as 
a disappointment to Mr R, so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mr R says that he completed an income  and expenditure form with a debt advice charity, 
and sent this to Halifax  on a number  of occasions.  But Halifax  says that it has no record  of 
ever receiving the form. It has sent a screen shot from its internal system as proof.  And so, 
although I do not question that Mr R may have posted the forms, Im persuaded that Halifax 
has not received  a completed income  and expenditure  form from Mr R.
Halifax sent out a further income and expenditure form in November 2018 with its final 
response letter. But it says that it hasnt received this back from Mr R. As our adjudicator has 
explained, it is possible for Mr R to complete the income and expenditure form over the 
telephone with Halifax, which would avoid any problem of it going missing  in the post.
I appreciate that Mr R says that Halifax has previously refused to complete an income and 
expenditure form over the telephone. But, although  Ive considered  what he has to say, Im 
Ref: DRN44829053not persuaded that this is the case.  It is clearly  in Halifaxs interest  to reach  an agreement 
with Mr R regarding payment of the arrears on his account, and completing the income and 
expenditure form is the first stage in this process. 
Mr R would like Halifax to capitalise his arrears into his mortgage. But Halifax has explained 
that Mr R would need to make  12 full contractual monthly payments before it would consider 
this. Adding the arrears  balance to the mortgage  would lead to Mr Rs monthly payment 
being recalculated (and increased) to ensure the extra  amount is repaid  over the remaining 
term. And Halifax  needs to be sure that Mr R can afford what hes currently  required to pay, 
and what he will need to pay afterward  consolidation, before doing so. I dont  think  that this 
is unreasonable. 
Mr R would also like Halifax  to move him to a lower  interest rate. But Halifax has explained  
that he isnt eligible for a new mortgage product as the account is in arrears. And I dont think  
it is unreasonable for Halifax to have eligibility criteria for the products it offers. There  may be 
some situations where it would be appropriate  for Halifax to apply  discretion  to its policy  and 
criteria. However, for it to be appropriate for it to do so, affordability  assessments would be 
needed and evidence of arrangements being  maintained, which  doesnt  appear to be the 
case with Mr Rs mortgage. 
As I dont find that Halifax has made an error, I dont require it to do anything  further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4482905