K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs M says Canada Square Operations Limited, trading as Egg (Egg)  mis-sold her 
the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint,  and my provisional findings, can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Egg confirmed it had no comments to make  following the provisional decision.  Mrs Ms 
representatives said Mrs M had enough  sick pay to cover her for shorter illnesses and her 
critical illness policy was there to act as a buffer  for any longer term illnesses/inability to 
work. So Mrs Ms representatives believe there would  have been  no need  for her to take out 
the PPI. 
Ive thought carefully about the comments they have made but I still dont think  this makes a 
difference to the outcome. As mentioned in my provisional decision, critical illness policies 
usually only provide cover for severe,  life threatening illnesses. And the illnesses covered 
are limited  to those specified under  the policy terms. So the type of cover provided by a 
critical illness policy is quite different to that offered by PPI and couldnt be considered  as an 
alternative insurance to protect her card repayments. Therefore I still think that the PPI policy  
could have provided a useful benefit  to her. 
In the circumstances, I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN42416392my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above and in the provisional decision attached, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN42416393Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in 2002. Mrs 
M says Canada Square  Operations  Limited, trading as Egg (Egg) mis-sold her the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Im currently  intending on not upholding  this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs M has said she was not told that the policy  was optional and she was not aware the policy was 
added to her account. But I think Egg made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this after such a long 
time has passed.
Egg has given me examples  of the pages from the online  application it thinks Mrs M would  have 
completed, and they show she would have been asked to choose  if she wanted the policy and select  
either yes or no options on screen. Egg has said Mrs M wouldnt have been able to proceed with her 
application unless she chose one of these  options.  I cant be sure exactly what Mrs M saw and filled in 
but without any evidence to make me think otherwise, I think its likely  she would have  seen these  
options when applying for the credit card and that the PPI was added as a result of her selecting yes.
Mrs M has said that the wording  on the application  meant that the policy was presented as being 
necessary, recommended and advised.  While I note the example  application does say We strongly 
recommend that you take out this valuable  cover  I dont think that this suggests  the cover  was 
necessary. Had the PPI been  mandatory  I wouldnt expect to see an option for Mrs M not to take it 
out.
Mrs Ms representative has referred to the wording next to the no box which  says I understand it is 
my responsibility to keep up my repayments should I fall ill or lose my job. They believe this phrase  is 
irresponsible as it scares applicants into selecting  the PPI. Ive thought  carefully  about  what  theyve 
said but Im afraid I dont agree. Im persuaded it explains that without this cover the applicant  will be 
responsible for making sure the payments  are made. So this doesnt impact my decision.
Egg says it didnt recommend the policy to Mrs M but she says she received advice. Ive noted  
that Mrs M also initially  told us she believed the policy was taken out via the telephone so it seems 
her recollection  of the sale has faded over time.  As this policy was taken out when she made  her 
application online, its unlikely Mrs M had any interaction with Egg staff that could have provided 
her with advice. So I think its more  likely that Egg didnt recommend the policy to her. This means  
it didnt have  to check the policy was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs M got the 
information she needed  to decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information  Egg gave  Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But 
she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover.  Based on what Ive 
seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for her if something went wrong.  It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN42416394Mrs M has recently told us she had some medical conditions at the time of the sale. As this policy 
didnt provide  cover for ongoing pre-existing medical  conditions  this could have  meant that Mrs M 
may not have  been able to claim if she was unable  to work due to these  conditions.  But from what  
Mrs M has told us, she has never needed to take time off work  for either of her conditions  and so I 
dont think she would have  expected to be off work (for more than the 30 day period required by the 
policy) and therefore  need  to make a claim.  Ive thought carefully about  this but I dont think Mrs M 
would have made a different  decision  if the exclusions surrounding pre-existing medical conditions  
had been clearly  pointed out to her.
From what we have been told, Mrs M would have received six months  full pay, followed by six 
months half pay from her employer if she was unable  to work due to accident or sickness.  But this 
policy would have paid out for up to 12 months which would be in addition  to, and potentially for longer 
than, her full sick pay. And it would have provided  cover for the same  length of time if she was to lose 
her job. So I still think this policy could  have  provided  a useful benefit to her.
Mrs M has said she didnt need this policy  as she had a critical illness  policy which she could have 
used if she became unwell. But these  policies  usually only provide cover for severe, life threatening 
illnesses, rather than being unable to work. So I dont think  the existence of this policy would have 
made a difference  to her choice in taking out this policy.
Ive also noted Mrs M says she had a redundancy policy  which  would have paid out if she was to 
lose her job. Whilst  Mrs M may have  had other cover available, it isnt clear  what  benefit  this 
policy would have provided or for how long.  Unfortunately Mrs M has been unable to provide 
evidence to show she had a policy which provided equivalent cover and so I cant  place as much 
weight on this information as Mrs M may have liked me to.
So, when taking  everything  into consideration, I dont think the policy was mis-sold and so Egg doesnt 
have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I currently dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN4241639