K820x#14complaint
Ms S doesnt think its fair that The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) has used the 
compensation it offered her for the mis-sale of payment protection insurance  (PPI) on six 
loans to reduce  the debt which it says remained unpaid by her. Ms S doesnt think  she had 
unpaid debt of the amount RBS says.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 15 November 2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I thought it 
was fair for RBS to use Ms Ss PPI compensation to reduce the amount  she owed and didnt 
repay when  her trust deed came  to an end.
RBS said it had nothing  further to add to my provisional decision and Ms S didnt respond  to 
it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I mentioned that there were some court cases about to whom PPI 
compensation should be paid when a consumer has been  discharged from a protected  
trust deed.  One of the court cases,  Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc v Donnelly (2019) CSIH 56, 
the court said RBS couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a debt from 
which they were discharged when  the trust deed came to an end. But I explained  that this 
was appealed by RBS  and that outcome might  change.
Since my provisional decision, the appeal  has been heard at the Inner House of the Court of 
Session. In short, RBS lost the appeal and the court reaffirmed the legal position  that RBS 
couldnt use the compensation to pay down the amount that wasnt  repaid after the trust 
ended. The court said when the trust deed  ended  the debtor  was discharged from her debts, 
so there  was no longer any debt owing from her to the bank which  could be subject  to set-
off.
At this moment, it isnt known whether RBS intend  to appeal the decision further to the 
Supreme Court  so there  is a possibility the outcome may change.
However, as explained  in my provisional  decision,  I have considered the relevant law. And 
when initially  providing my provisional  decision, I did so when the law had already found in 
that consumers  favour.  RBS losing the appeal confirms the legal position within Scots  law 
about what happens when a consumer  is discharged from their trust deed (although Im 
mindful that, as Ive said above, RBS may be appealing this case further to the Supreme 
Court). But, as I also explained in my provisional decision, whilst I take into account the 
relevant law, Im not bound to follow it. I must also apply an over-arching  test of whats  fair 
and reasonable  in the particular circumstances of Ms Ss complaint, as required of me 
through FSMA Section 228 and the FCAs DISP rules.
Ref: DRN45234632Having done so, and in the absence of any further  comments on my provisional  decision by 
either Ms S or RBS,  I remain of the opinion that it would be unfair for me to require RBS to 
pay PPI compensation  directly to Ms S when - because  of her discharge  from the trust deed  
 she now wont ever have to repay the monies  borrowed  from RBS and not already repaid 
by her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I think Its fair for 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to use Ms Ss compensation for the mis-sold PPI to reduce 
the amount she owed  and didnt repay when her trust deed came  to an end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN45234633copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Ms S doesnt think its fair that The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) has used  the compensation  it 
offered her for the mis-sale of payment protection insurance (PPI) on six loans  to reduce the debt 
which it says remained unpaid  by her. Ms S doesnt  think she had unpaid  debt of the amount RBS 
says.
 
background
Ms S was sold PPI policies on six successive  and linked loans she took out with RBS.  Ms S 
complained to RBS that shed been mis-sold these PPI policies. RBS upheld her complaint. It offered 
to pay her total compensation of £6,271.88 in relation to these mis-sales.
In 2012, Ms S had granted a trust deed for her creditors. This is an alternative in Scotland  to 
bankruptcy (called sequestration here). It is a legally binding agreement  between  a consumer and 
their creditors,  which  is administered  by a trustee. RBS says that Ms S was discharged  from the trust 
deed in April 2018, but the trust deed remained an active one until the trustee was also discharged in 
May 2019. So RBS obtained acceptances from the trustee  to the PPI compensation offers it had 
made on the above loans.
RBS says that, in these  circumstances, it was entitled to use the PPI compensation offers it made to 
Ms S in May 2018 to offset the larger  amount of debt which remained unpaid  at that time of 
£10,027.87.
Our adjudicator didnt think Ms S complaint should be upheld.  Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators 
view, so the case has been  passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
As Ms S doesnt think she had outstanding debt of £10,027.87  in May 2018 which  had never  been  
repaid to RBS, Ive first looked at the evidence  which RBS has provided to show this was the case. 
RBS has provided  a copy of a statement  for Ms S loan account  ended 9223.  This was the last loan in 
the chain mentioned above. The loan was taken out in November 2002 with a term of sixty months 
and a loan amount (including a PPI single  premium) of £7,949.  The statement shows that this account 
went into default and that there remained  an outstanding balance on it as at 22 February  2008 of 
£10,027.87. I can see from the records that RBS has provided that, on 27 February 2008,  this 
outstanding balance was written off in RBS books. And I havent seen any evidence  to show that this 
outstanding debt was subsequently repaid to RBS.
So from the information Ive seen, Im currently satisfied that Ms S did have a debt of £10,027.87  
which she has never repaid to RBS.  However, if Ms S has any further evidence  to show that this debt 
was repaid (in full or in part) after it was written off by RBS in February  2008, I will take this into 
consideration in making my final decision  on her complaint.
Ive next looked at whether I consider that it was fair and reasonable for RBS to offset the PPI 
compensation offers it had made  against debt which Ms S hadnt ever repaid.
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable, Im required  by DISP 3.6.4 R of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
Ref: DRN45234634(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman]  considers to have been good industry practice  at 
the relevant time.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive  or contradictory, Ive made my decision  on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
As RBS has upheld Ms S PPI mis-sale complaints, in this provisional decision  Ive just looked  at 
whether what  its done to put things right is fair and reasonable. So what  I need to decide  is whether  
its fair and reasonable for RBS to use Ms S PPI compensation offers to reduce the much higher 
amount of debt which she wasnt required  to repay to it after she was discharged from her protected 
trust deed.
And in this case the relevant  law I need to take account of is Scots law. In recent years thereve been 
a number of cases looking  at what happens  to PPI compensation after a trust deed has come to an 
end. 
In Dooneen Ltd v Mond [2018] UKSC 54, the Supreme Court considered  the effect  of a discharge  
following a final distribution by the trustee.  In that case, the discharge was held to terminate the trust 
which meant that any unrealised assets  were returned to the debtor  including the PPI compensation  
that no one had known about at the time.
In Donnelly v The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC [2017] SAC (Civ) 1, the Sheriff Appeal Court 
considered whether RBS could offset PPI compensation against the amount that hadnt been repaid 
when the trust deed came  to an end. The terms of the trust deed in this case  meant RBS had, in 
effect, agreed that the debt would be extinguished  and it couldnt later revive  the debt to offset the 
PPI compensation (I understand RBS has appealed this decision, so the outcome may change).
So I accept that, unless and until the Inner House reverses the decision of the Sheriff Appeal Court, 
and on the assumption that the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are essentially the same 
as here, then RBS could  not, in court, successfully argue  for set-off in this case. I say this on the basis 
that it appears Ms S had been  discharged  from the trust deed before  the offers of PPI compensation  
were made by RBS.
But I must apply an over-arching  test of whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of 
Ms S complaint.  And I simply dont  think  it would  be fair to tell RBS to pay Ms S PPI compensation 
directly to her when she borrowed a great deal more  money from RBS which wont  ever now be 
repaid. The fact that Ms S had been discharged from her protected trust deed before these  offers of 
PPI compensation were made doesnt, in my opinion, make a difference  to what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances here. I dont think anyone would  think  it fair to require RBS to repay 
the PPI compensation directly to Ms S when she doesnt now need to pay back  to RBS a much bigger  
amount which  she borrowed. And as the PPI policies  in question  were paid for by single  premiums 
added to her loans, for RBS to do so would, in effect, mean that it was refunding  her some money  that 
it had never  actually received from her in the first place.
So it follows from what Ive said that I think its fair that RBS used the PPI compensation  it offered  to 
Ms S to reduce the debt, which  wont  now ever be repaid to RBS following Ms S discharge from her 
protected trust deed.
Ref: DRN45234635Finally, Ive thought about what Ms S has said in responding  to the adjudicators view on her 
complaint. But having done so, this hasnt changed my mind. I still dont currently think that her 
complaint should be upheld.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not presently intending  to uphold Ms S complaint.  Im minded to 
decide that it was fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to use Ms S compensation for the PPI 
policies it mis-sold  to her to reduce the amount of debt she hadnt repaid when  she was discharged 
from her protected trust deed.  So, based on what  Ive seen so far, I dont plan to make a further 
award.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4523463