K821x#15complaint
Miss B says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). 
Its been agreed Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the insurer should 
accept responsibility  for this complaint.  Although FICL didnt  actually sell the PPI, to 
keep things simple  Ill refer just to FICL  in my decision.
background
Miss B was sold a PPI policy with a store card in 2000. 
The adjudicator who looked at Miss Bs complaint didnt think  FICL explained the terms and 
conditions of the PPI policy clearly  to Miss B. And she didnt think  Miss B wouldve bought  
the policy if it had. FICL  disagrees, so Miss Bs complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, on balance, Ive decided  to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had a duty to give Miss B enough clear  information about  the PPI so she could make 
an informed decision about  whether  she wanted  it. From what  Ive seen, I dont think  FICL 
did this. And also from what Ive seen, on balance, I think if FICL had given Miss B the clear 
information she needed she wouldnt have bought the policy.
Its likely  the policy Miss B was sold wouldnt have  covered her for any medical conditions 
she had when she bought it. Miss B has told us she had a medical  condition  when she was 
sold the policy. She didnt tell FICL  during their investigation into the complaint. She says 
she didnt tell FICL because when they asked she hadnt realised her medical condition was 
serious enough to mention. However  she explained to our adjudicator  that the medical  
condition had been ongoing  since she was young, caused her considerable pain and 
required injections to control it. She said she had had had time off work when the pain was 
severe. 
As Ive said,  I think its likely the PPI excluded  cover for Miss Bs known medical  condition.  
Miss Bs explanation  of her medical  condition has been clear, detailed  and plausible,  and 
whilst I accept shes saying this in support  of her complaint, I think its more likely than not 
that she did have  this medical  condition. So, on the basis of this, I think its likely the 
exclusion in the policy wouldve mattered to Miss B when she bought the PPI. 
And there was no information about this exclusion on the application form Miss B signed  
when she was sold the PPI policy. So I havent  seen anything to show  FICL did enough  to 
make this exclusion clear to Miss B.
If it had done, and based on the information Ive got, I think its unlikely Miss B wouldve gone  
ahead with the policy if shed known she wasnt likely to have been  covered if shed needed  
time off work because  of her known  medical  condition. 
Ref: DRN44331192I think Miss B has lost out because of what FICL has done wrong and so it should  put things 
right.
Putting things  right
I understand Miss Bs account is closed.
FICL should put Miss B in the financial position  shed  be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI. 
So:
A.FICL should find out how much  Miss B wouldve owed when she closed her store  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss B owed when she closed her 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss B made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss B wouldve owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  FICL works out what Miss B would have owed each month without PPI  Miss 
B paid more than enough  to clear her balances, FICL  should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Miss B paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest until the point when Miss B 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year
D.FICL should tell Miss B what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Miss B a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Miss Bs complaint and direct  Financial Insurance  
Company Limited  to put things right as Ive set out above.
Ref: DRN44331193Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4433119