K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC released confidential  information  about 
their mortgage account to a third party.
background
In late 2018, Mr H received text messages  from Barclays saying that it would respond  to his 
request in the next five working days. Mr H hadnt  made any request of Barclays.  He found 
out that Barclays had received correspondence  from Highways England as part of its 
statutory consultation  process. Barclays replied to Highways England and in doing so, 
included Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage account number in its response. 
Barclays said that the letter from Highways England was added to Mr and Mrs Hs account 
and a systems error triggered a text to Mr H. It paid Mr and Mrs H total compensation of 
£100 in relation to the texts it sent to Mr H. 
Mr and Mrs H say that they have lost faith in Barclays and would like to transfer their 
business to other providers. They  want the bank to waive the early repayment charge 
applicable to their mortgage. 
Our adjudicator said that Highways England accessed certain information from the Land 
Registry and the only additional  information  Barclays released was Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage 
account number.  He said that it wasnt necessary for Barclays to release  that information  but 
he didnt think it had a significant impact on Mr and Mrs H. The adjudicator thought  the total 
compensation of £100 that Barclays had already  paid was fair, so he didnt ask it to do any 
more. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with the adjudicator.  Mr H said that Barclays shouldnt  have given  
out their mortgage  account number without their consent. He asked that an ombudsman  
consider the complaint, so it was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO)  is the proper forum to consider whether there 
have been breaches of data protection laws. I note that Mr and Mrs H have contacted the 
ICO, so I wont  comment further on that issue.
The question I have  to decide is whether Barclays was at fault in releasing information about  
Mr and Mrs H to Highways England and whether that caused them financial loss or material 
distress and/or inconvenience.   
Highways England had certain information  about  Mr and Mrs H from HM Land Registry, 
which keeps a public register of land ownership,  including some information  about 
mortgages. When Barclays  replied  to Highways England, it included Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage account number. It wasnt asked for that information and I dont think  it was 
required to give it. I dont  think  Barclays should have given Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage 
account number  to Highways England. But I dont think that error, in itself,  caused Mr and 
Mrs H any loss, distress  or inconvenience.  
Ref: DRN42811452Mr H was concerned to receive  subsequent  texts  saying that Barclays  would respond to him, 
when he hadnt  made any enquiry. He was understandably concerned about that. But I think 
that the total compensation of £100 Barclays has paid in relation to this matter is fair. In the 
circumstances that arise here, I dont think it would be fair or proportionate to direct  Barclays 
to waive  Mr and Mrs Hs early repayment  charge.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs H but for the reasons Ive set out above,  Im not going to 
ask Barclays to do any more than its already done. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4281145