K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) have said that she was at fault 
for an accident. She says as a result of this she has now lost her no claims discount (NCD)  
and she has had to pay an excess for the claim.
background
Mrs S was in an accident where she says she wasnt at fault. She was driving behind a lorry 
that had an overhanging load. The overhanging  object hit Mrs Ss car causing damage.
Mrs S says she wasnt at fault and the vehicle should have had a warning sign on it  she 
says this was a requirement  because of the length  she thought was overhanging the vehicle. 
Mrs S has sent in a dash  cam video to support what she says happened.  The driver of the 
lorry didnt stop when the object hit Mrs Ss car. Mrs S said to resolve this complaint she 
would like her NCD reinstating  and she wants a refund of the excess  she has paid - £350.00.
CIS says its looked at the evidence provided  by Mrs S. It says it thinks  she was at fault for 
the accident. It says that given the length of the overhanging object off the back of the lorry, 
there was no requirement for a warning  sign to be added. It says Mrs S was driving  too close  
to the vehicle and this is how the object hit the car.
Mrs S didnt agree with CISs findings  so she came to our service. Our adjudicator didnt 
think CIS had done anything  wrong. She thought  that CIS had done everything  it needed  to 
when it investigated  the claim. Mrs S didnt agree with our adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision  on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There isnt any dispute over the damage caused to Mrs Ss car. But Mrs S doesnt think  she 
was at fault. As it has already  been  explained  to Mrs S, our role is to consider  whether CIS 
handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner.  I wont be deciding  on who was at fault 
for the accident  as this is best dealt with by the courts.
Based on all of the information Ive seen, I think CIS handled Mrs Ss claim in a way that is 
reasonable. 
Looking at the information Mrs S has sent in, I can see that there is an overhanging load off 
the back of the lorry. CIS has considered relevant legislation relating to this when deciding 
who was at fault. It says that it used the information provided by Mrs S to determine the 
length of the overhang. CIS says it thinks the overhang was probably less than one metre 
long. And because of this, the third party driver didnt need  to do anything to warn  other  
drivers of the overhang.  
Ref: DRN40341472CIS have  relied  on the Highway Code to determine  that it thought Mrs S was most likely at 
fault for the damage caused to her car. This rule broadly states  that in slow moving  traffic, 
the driver  should  never  get so close to the vehicle in front that you cant  stop safely. And it 
says to leave  enough  space to manoeuvre away from the vehicle in front.  CIS thought it was 
more likely that the cause of the accident  was more likely to be down to Mrs S driving too 
close to the vehicle in front.
It is clear under  the policy terms  that CIS can take  over and conduct the defence  and 
settlement of any claim which  is common  in car insurance policies.  This means  they can 
decide whether  to take the other  driver to court or settle a claim. This can be expensive and 
time consuming. And the outcome can be uncertain so it often  wont be sensible to take legal  
action. 
But this service does  look to ensure that insurers act reasonably  in deciding whether to settle  
claims or pursue the other side. So I have carefully  considered how CIS has handled this 
claim and Im satisfied that the investigation was reasonable and took into account  all of the 
available evidence. And as there was some onus  on Mrs S to leave a safe distance in front 
of her I dont  think I can say that CIS has acted  unreasonably here. 
It says a claim will not affect an NCD where you were not at fault, as long as the insurer  has 
recovered all that the insurer has paid from those  who were  responsible . For the reasons 
Ive already set out above, I think CIS did everything it needed to do when it investigated the 
claim. And so I dont  think it has done  anything wrong in reducing Mrs Ss NCD.
The policy terms also say if a claim is made within the period of insurance then the NCD will 
reduce in line with a scale it has provided. Based on the information  Ive seen, I think CIS 
has reduced the NCD in accordance with its policy terms  and therefore  Im not going to ask 
them to reinstate this.
I understand Mrs S wants CIS to refund the excess she paid for the claim.  But I dont think it 
would be fair for me to ask CIS to do this. The terms and conditions for Mrs Ss policy  define  
excess as the amount you must pay towards  any claim, this can include both compulsory 
and voluntary excesses . The policy  wording says that the excess  must be paid in any claim 
 so the monies would  be payable even if Mrs S wasnt at fault for the accident. Although 
she may be able to claim this back if the accident  wasnt her fault. The charge  for the excess  
is in line with what the policy documents say it would be. So I think  that the charge is fair.
So I dont  think CIS has done anything wrong in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4034147