K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that he was mis-sold  a monthly  premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
Although the policy was sold by another business, Financial Insurance  Company Limited 
(FICL) have  accepted  responsibility for the sale and by extension  this complaint.
So Ive only referred to FICL during  this decision.
background
Mr R took out a store card in 1994. He was sold the PPI in connection with this card during a 
phone call in March  1999.
The PPI wouldve cost Mr R no more than £1 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
And as I understand it, wouldve covered 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if Mr R 
was off work  sick or lost his job until the outstanding  balance had been cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld.
Mr R didnt agree with our adjudicator and the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint. I appreciate  Mr R may be 
disappointed by this outcome but it is of course up to him whether he accepts  or rejects my 
decision. I will now go on to explain why Ive reached this outcome.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr R was eligible  for the policy.  Im satisfied Mr R was 
eligible for the PPI based on his age and circumstances at the time of the sale. 
FICL had to make it clear to Mr R that the PPI was optional and needed  Mr Rs consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Mr R says he refused the offer to take PPI when  
opening the account and his (now) wife witnessed him doing this. He also states  that he had 
secured employment  which was safe and he would not have had a need for PPI. In any 
event he says historically that this is not the sort of insurance he would take out even if his 
job wasnt as secure  as the one he had managed to obtain.
I cant know for sure what happened  during the sale and so Ive thought about what  Mr R 
and FICL  have told us and looked to the information  available to help me decide  what  is 
more likely to have  happened.
FICL have  told us that the PPI was sold during  a telemarketing call. They  have records from 
the time of the sale which would confirm this as the method of sale and I havent seen 
sufficient evidence to doubt that this this is how the PPI was sold.  
Ref: DRN47639312However, they havent been able to provide  us with a call recording, a transcript or a sales  
script from the time of the sale.  This is understandable given how long ago the sale took 
place. So I cant hold it against FICL  that they are now unable to show  how the PPI was 
presented during the call. However, from the evidence  available  to me it appears that Mr R 
took the card out in 1994. The policy  was sold on the telephone  in 1999. So bearing in mind  
the amount of time that passed  between Mr R taking out the card and being sold PPI, I think  
it would  have been clear that Mr R didnt have to take PPI in order to take the card and as 
such I think Mr R would  have been  aware  the PPI was optional. 
Mr R has told us that his wife witnessed his refusal of PPI when  he opened the account  its 
clear that Mr R didnt take out PPI at the time the account opened  in any event and so this 
doesnt assist  in deciding whether Mr R consented to or refused  the policy some 5 years  
later. And while I appreciate everything  Mr R has said about  not needing PPI, I havent  seen 
sufficient evidence to conclude the PPI was sold on the phone  without Mr Rs consent.
From the information available  to me and what I know  of their sales  practice at the time, I 
dont think FICL advised Mr R to take the policy out. This means  they didnt have to take 
adequate steps to ensure  the policy was suitable for Mr R. So for example, they didnt  have 
to ask about or take into account  Mr Rs existing  provisions or assess  if the PPI was 
affordable for Mr R.
But FICL did have  to give Mr R clear information so that he could make a proper choice 
about whether  or not to take the policy out. I cant say that FICL gave Mr R all the 
information as they shouldve about the costs/benefits of the policy  or the main exclusions 
and restrictions. 
So I have  to go on and consider whether better information wouldve put Mr R off taking  the 
policy out. I dont  think it wouldve.  I say this because:
-Mr R has told us he was self-employed at the time of the sale and that he wasnt  
entitled to employee benefits. So this policy could  have provided  useful  cover  for    
Mr R if he was unable to work.  Mr R has also told us that he went on to gain secure  
employment  I appreciate that this employment  would  have provided  Mr R with sick 
pay. However, the policy would  have paid out in addition to this and wouldve 
covered 15% of his repayments every  month  until the outstanding balance  had been 
paid off or he returned to work.  
-Mr R didnt appear to have been  affected  by the more restrictive terms in the policy 
which could have  made it difficult for him to make  a successful claim under the 
policy. Although some  policies did make  it difficult for self-employed  people  to make 
a claim,  this wasnt one of those policies.
 
-Mr R couldve  cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially if he 
thought he could no longer afford  it or no longer wanted it.
-I havent seen  any evidence that the PPI was unaffordable to Mr R at the time of the 
sale.
So based  on what Ive seen, I dont think Mr R was mis-sold this PPI policy.  
Ref: DRN47639313my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against  Financial  Insurance  Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4763931