K820x#14complaint
Miss B complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her account, and recorded fraud 
markers against her name.
background
Miss B said that on 23 July 2018 she had a call from someone she thought  was from 
Barclays. The caller asked for a number  of Miss Bs security details, including  her full name, 
date of birth, address,  and PINsentry number.  Miss B provided all these  details. Five 
minutes later Miss B rang Barclays  to ask about the call. Barclays hadnt made the call, and 
re-set her account.
On 3 September, Miss B said she was out shopping. She took out £50 cash and made  a 
contactless payment  for £5.61. Miss B said her card was stolen, probably on the train,  as her 
bag was open with no zip. She said she got home  about 6pm.
The next day, Miss B rang Barclays to report her card had been stolen. But Barclays said 
her account  was under an internal review, which meant it couldnt send her a new card.  
On 19 September,  Barclays sent a letter to Miss B. The letter said that following a review of 
her account,  and after careful  consideration, Barclays was unable to continue  to act as 
Miss Bs bankers. Her account would be closed that day, in line with the terms and 
conditions of her account.
Miss B complained. Barclays final response letter said that closing her account had been 
carefully considered  and was subject to strict  internal review processes.
Miss B wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She told our investigator  that 
Barclays had told her there had been money laundering on her account. She hadnt been 
able to get another account,  except with a credit  union where she had to pay a monthly fee. 
The investigator looked at the transactions on Miss Bs account. There had been 25 
fraudulent credits into Miss Bs account  on the afternoon of 3 September, totalling £2,438.65. 
Within a short time, there had then been withdrawals totalling £2,438. These were:
-a withdrawal for £300 at a cash machine. This had used the genuine  card and correct 
PIN;
-a withdrawal for £2,000 at an machine inside a branch,  where the limit is higher but 
needs additional security keyed in. This had used  the genuine card, correct PIN, and 
Miss Bs correct date of birth;
-a purchase for £129 at an IT store, using the genuine card and correct PIN;
-a contactless  payment  for £9.
The investigator said that Barclays had closed Miss Bs account  because of intelligence it 
had received that Miss B had received fraudulent  money into her account, which shed  then 
spent. It had decided  to close her account  as a result, and had recorded fraud markers with 
the organisations CIFAS and Hunter.
The investigator considered what Miss B had said. But she didnt think it was likely that 
someone would have fraudulently obtained  Miss Bs date of birth in the July phone  call, then 
waited two months before following Miss B shopping in September. And during that trip, the 
Ref: DRN42632872person would have had to look over Miss Bs shoulder during the morning cash withdrawal, 
in order to obtain her PIN, before following her for two hours before stealing the card.  So the 
investigator concluded that Miss B had authorised the disputed transactions herself, or had 
consented to someone  else using the account by providing her card,  PIN, and date of birth.
The investigator also considered that Barclays was justified in putting fraud markers against 
Miss Bs name with CIFAS  and Hunter. She pointed out that banks doing  this need sufficient 
evidence to back up what theyre alleging, and a criminal offence must be identifiable. The 
investigator agreed this test had been  met. 
Miss B didnt accept  this and sent a long and detailed email.  In summary, she said that she, 
her mother  and partner were disgusted at the way the whole  situation  had been handled. 
She said someone was out there  walking freely after tarnishing her name  and cloning her 
details, which wasnt fair. She said shed  had the worst childhood. Miss B said no-one  was 
showing consideration towards  her and no-one understands her pain. She said the system 
has no remorse  or sympathy for people crying  out for help, and she had been  through  so 
much. Miss B said shell be putting  in a full formal complaint where I will get everyone 
involved.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Miss B is angry that her account has been  closed and fraud  markers placed  
against her name. But my role is to look impartially at the evidence,  within  the framework  of 
the relevant rules and regulations.
Regulations
The relevant  regulations  for disputed transactions taking place in late 2018 are the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017. These  say that the payment service  provider  (here, Barclays) 
must show the payment was authenticated. Miss B has claimed that her card was cloned.  
But there has never been an instance  where the chip on any card has been  successfully  
copied. A cloned card might be used in, say, a phone transaction where  only the numbers 
are given out. But the computers within payment machines recognise whether the genuine 
card has been used. Here, Barclays has shown,  by providing the relevant computer 
documentation, that Miss Bs genuine card with its chip, and the correct PIN, were  used.  The 
larger cash withdrawal also used Miss Bs correct  date of birth.  So the disputed payments 
were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms,  the bank is liable  if the customer  didnt authorise  the payments, 
and the customer  is liable  if he did authorise  them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised  payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed  to keep their details secure.
Whether Miss B authorised the withdrawals
Ive considered whether it was Miss B herself who authorised the withdrawals on the 
afternoon of 3 September. Several  balance enquiries were  carried out that afternoon,  with 
Ref: DRN42632873the disputed withdrawals made immediately afterwards.  I consider  that whoever made the 
withdrawals must have known that fraudulent payments were  expected  into the account.  
Its key that Miss Bs genuine card, correct PIN, and correct date of birth were used. There 
were no incorrect PIN attempts. Miss B has said that her card was stolen, but that doesnt 
explain how a third party would know her correct PIN and her correct  date of birth.   
Miss B told our investigator that she hadnt  had any identification including her date of birth 
with her that afternoon, but shed given the July caller her date of birth.  But I dont consider 
its likely  that a fraudster  would obtain  this information in July, then wait until September 
before paying  fraudulent money  into Miss Bs account, following her to look over her 
shoulder to obtain  her PIN, wait another two hours  then steal the card. It doesnt make  
sense.
I consider the only reasonable  conclusion  is that Miss B carried  out the balance  enquiries 
and withdrawals herself, knowing that fraudulent  money would  be crediting the account. Its 
possible she may have  given someone else her card, PIN, and date of birth. But if so, that 
still counts as Miss B giving consent  to what happened.
Fraud markers
The information which Barclays received indicated that the credits totalling £2,438.65,  which  
were paid into Miss Bs account, were fraudulent funds. Ive considered this, in the light of 
the guidance from the anti-fraud organisation CIFAS. This is a member  organisation and 
Barclays belongs to it.
The CIFAS guidance explains members can only record  information  with CIFAS if this is 
supported by evidence and meets four  pillars burden of proof. These  are:
that there are reasonable  grounds to believe that a Fraud or Financial Crime has 
been committed or attempted;
that the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member 
could confidently report the individuals conduct  to the police;
the individuals conduct must meet the criteria of one of the case types;  
In order to file the member must  have rejected, withdrawn or terminated a product 
on the basis of Fraud,  unless  the member has an obligation to provide the product 
or the individual  has already received the full benefit  of the product.
So a bank  cant apply  a CIFAS  marker because it suspects fraud. It needs to have  sufficient 
evidence to back up what its alleging and a criminal offence must  identifiable  (so the bank 
could confidently report the consumer to the police).  Banks are also expected  to keep the 
evidence they rely on, for at least six years. 
This is a high bar to recording a fraud  marker.  But on the evidence  Ive seen, I consider that 
Barclays was justified  in recording the markers against Miss Bs name, with the anti-fraud 
agencies CIFAS and Hunter.
Closure of Miss Bs account
Banks are entitled to decide that they no longer want to provide banking services  to 
customers  in the same way that customers can decide to close  their accounts. But they 
can also close an account immediately,  without giving any notice,  under certain 
Ref: DRN42632874circumstances. Barclays explained this in its 19 September 2018 letter to Miss B, when it 
closed her account. It quoted section 11 of its Banking Terms and Conditions. This section 
says:
We may end this agreement immediately...and  stop providing  services and close your 
account,  if we reasonably  believe  you have  seriously ... broken any terms of the agreement 
or we have reasonable grounds  for thinking you have  done any of the following things, which 
you must not do:
...
You commit or attempt  fraud against us or someone  else
You use or allow someone else to use your account illegally or for criminal activity...
You inappropriately let someone else use your account.
As I have found that Barclays was entitled on the evidence to record fraud  markers  against 
Miss Bs name, it follows that Barclays was also entitled to close  Miss Bs account without 
giving notice.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 June  2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4263287