K822xcomplaint
Ms H is unhappy that issues with TSB Bank plcs IT system made it difficult for her to obtain  
details and reassurance  about fraudulent activity that had taken place on her account, and 
left her without access to funds.
background
In late April 2018, TSB experienced issues with its IT system. On 8 May 2018  a significant  
sum of money was withdrawn from Ms Hs accounts  without her consent. I understand Ms H 
attempted to contact  TSB by telephone on 9 and 10 May, but was unable to get through. 
She then travelled to a branch on 10 May,  and a TSB representative made contact with the 
fraud department on her behalf.
I understand that Ms Hs funds were  returned in full on 22 May. However, she has told us 
that in the interim she was left without access to any funds,  and was forced  to live off a small 
amount of cash that she had previously withdrawn. Ms H has also told us that after this sum 
ran out she was unable to work,  as she couldnt fund her travel  costs to visit clients. As such, 
she says she missed  out on earnings.
Ms H has said she made approximately 15 trips to her branch in an attempt to resolve the 
matter. She says this cost her £4 per trip in travel  costs.  She says she also contacted  TSB 
approximately 50 times by email and phone,  and that she incurred £70 in call costs as a 
result.
Ms H has told us that she suffered considerable stress from the point she realised her 
savings were missing. She also says TSB didnt  give her adequate advice, support, or 
information about what was happening,  and that this made  the situation worse.  I understand 
that on 22 May TSB offered Ms H £100 to compensate her for the trouble  and upset shed 
experienced, but Ms H doesnt think this is enough.  
Ms H has told us that she opened a new account  on 24 May,  and logged  a complaint. She 
says she received a number of holding letters from TSB regarding this complaint, and that 
her concerns  werent addressed. 
Ms H brought her complaint to this service  and our investigator recommended TSB pay her 
£300 to reflect the trouble and upset caused by all the issues shed experienced. In addition, 
our investigator recommended a payment of £130 to cover her financial losses. Our 
investigator explained that Ms H couldve used her credit card from a separate  bank to fund 
her travel in order to work,  so she didnt make  an award for loss of earnings.
Ms H disagreed as she thought the compensation award should  be higher, given the stress 
and inconvenience  she had experienced. Ms H also explained that she had been unwilling to 
use her alternative credit  card as it didnt occur to her, she usually only used it on holiday, 
and she didnt want to run up any debt. She also said she didnt think  it was relevant  to her 
case. Our investigator  acknowledged the trouble  and inconvenience Ms H had experienced 
as a result  of everything that had happened, but explained that she still thought  £430 in total 
was fair compensation. 
Ms H disagreed and requested an ombudsmans decision. The complaint has been  passed 
to me.
Ref: DRN49773532my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as our investigator.
Firstly, Ive thought about any financial loss that Ms H incurred as a result of the issues  
described above. Ms H has estimated that she was charged £70 for the many phone calls 
she made to TSB, and that the cost of travelling  to branch was £4 per trip. As Ms H has told 
us she made  approximately 15 trips, that makes a total of £60. So I agree with our 
investigator that Ms H should be compensated £130 for the financial loss she has incurred 
due to travel  and call costs.
However, like our investigator,  I also think Ms H couldve reasonably  been expected to take 
steps to avoid lost earnings by using her alternative  credit card to fund travel, or making 
other arrangements. So I dont think its fair to hold TSB responsible  for loss of earnings  in 
this case. As such, I wont be making an award in respect of this.
In addition to financial loss, Ive thought about the worry and inconvenience  Ms H has had as 
a result of all the issues shes had to deal with. She made a significant  number  of trips to 
branch, as well as numerous phone calls and emails. And the lack of information and 
updates added to her stress and frustration.  So I agree that Ms H is entitled to some  
additional compensation regarding this.
Ms H thinks  the figure of £300  proposed by our investigator isnt high enough to compensate 
her for everything shes experienced. I understand Ms Hs strength of feeling  on the matter, 
but I should explain that its not within this services remit  to sanction or punish businesses, 
but simply to put things  right for individual consumers.
Ive thought about all the problems that Ms H has experienced in relation  to this complaint. I 
also acknowledge that some time passed before Ms Hs funds were returned to her, and so 
she missed out on interest on this sum during that time. However, given  the short time 
period, any interest  would be nominal,  so Im not making a separate award for this. Instead,  
Ive taken it into account when determining the compensation award.
Overall, having reviewed all the information  relating to this case, I think that £300  is an 
appropriate figure to compensate Ms H for the trouble and upset resulting from TSBs 
failings in this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. If TSB Bank plc has not already  done so, it 
should pay Ms H £130 in respect of her financial loss and a further £300 for the trouble and 
upset shes experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Clair Bantin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4977353