K820x#14complaint
Mr W says The Co-operative Bank  Plc, Britannia  Building Society at the time, mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr W bought the policy  in 2008 at the same  time as taking a mortgage. He applied for the 
mortgage and PPI policy in a branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr W for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £194.88  a month towards  Mr Ws mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £11.22  a month.  
Mr W was employed  as a driver and had been there more than four years. From what he has 
told us, he was entitled to no more than statutory pay for sickness  and redundancy and 
didnt have any other means  with which to pay his mortgage if he couldnt work. He has told 
us he was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Co-op has sent us evidence  to show the mortgage  account started in 2008. 
Mr Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf. I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mr Ws representative says:
Co-op failed to meet the sales standards  which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr W wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Ws representatives  believe  there  to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Co-op  should  have  told Mr W about 
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Co-op should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr W and the impact they would 
have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN42308242Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2008 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
Ref: DRN42308243The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Co-op, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Co-op  was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr Ws complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Co-op gave advice, whether it advised Mr W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Co-op gave  Mr W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr W suffered  loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN42308244Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr W and 
Co-op, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr W know he had a choice?
Co-op had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr W says PPI was just added  as part of 
the package with his mortgage and he had no interest in it. But to take the PPI, Mr W signed 
a PPI application form  separate from the mortgage  application form. The use of a separate 
form, requiring a separate  signature to apply, I think wouldve tended to suggest the PPI was 
separate from the mortgage rather than something that automatically came with it.
Also, what  the PPI application form said included: You have selected  the following cover:-  
Accident, Sickness  and Unemployment. I think this wouldve suggested that the PPI was 
being added as a result of a selection Mr W had made, rather  than coming automatically as 
part of a package  with his mortgage.
Shortly after the meeting at which  Mr W applied for the cover, Co-op sent him a letter  which 
it said summarised the recommendations it had made at the meeting. The letter said Co-op 
had recommended the PPI and that Mr W had accepted the recommendation. It also said 
Mr W could cancel the PPI if he wasnt happy  with it. I think this letter  supports the view that 
Co-op presented  the PPI to Mr W at the meeting as something separate  from the mortgage 
and as something that Co-op was recommending but that Mr W didnt have  to take.  Similarly
Mr Ws mortgage offer described  the PPI as Optional Insurance. In contrast, I havent  seen  
anything from around the time of sale saying that the PPI had to be taken.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr W knew  the PPI policy  was optional  
and agreed to take it without undue pressure. 
did Co-op provide  advice?
Co-op says it gave advice  during this sale. Mr W says it didnt. But taking into account  the 
letter Co-op sent Mr W after the sale to summarise the advice that it said had been given, 
Im persuaded that Co-op did provide  advice.  This means Co-op  had to advise  Mr W with 
reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given 
Mr Ws needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
Co-op took some steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable  recommendation  for 
Mr W. The adviser had information  about some  of Mr Ws financial circumstances as part of 
the mortgage application  and from the letter Co-op sent Mr W about its recommendations, 
it appears Co-op established  that Mr W wouldnt receive work  sick pay.
But although  it appears there was a discussion to try and establish whether Mr W had a 
need for the policy  I dont think Co-op did enough  to ensure that he had a need  for it and 
that it was suitable.  For example, from what I have, I cant see that Co-op  found  out about  
any health issues Mr W might have had that might  have  made  the cover unsuitable for him, 
or that it established  what redundancy provision Mr W had through his work and whether he 
had a need for the PPI unemployment cover.
Ref: DRN42308245Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Co-op did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr W given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Co-op advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Co-op did all it should  have  done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr W, I do think  its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr W had a need for the PPI  it seems  likely  his ability to continue  to meet  his mortgage 
payments wouldve  been put under strain if he were not working for an extended  period. 
He wasnt entitled to sick pay or redundancy pay, aside from statutory pay, and he didnt 
have any other  means with which to meet his mortgage payments if he couldnt work. 
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr W.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr W. There was 
nothing about  his employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult  for him to 
claim. And he hasnt  told us of any pre-existing medical conditions that couldve affected 
his ability  to claim. 
-There were  limits  to the cover  provided  by the policy (including that for disability Mr W 
had to be not only unable to do his own job but also any similar work for which  he might 
reasonably be qualified), the requirement  that Mr W be disabled or unemployed for 60 
days before he could make a claim and the fact the policy would only pay benefits for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim). But the PPI still provided valuable  cover given 
Mr Ws circumstances, including his lack of sick pay and redundancy provision, the fact 
the policy protected mortgage payments on his home and the potential  consequences 
should Mr W be unable to make  the payments on loans secured against  his house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Co-op  gave Mr W sufficient information  
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Co-op was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr W was given a broad description of what the policy  
was intended  to cover (that is that it would protect  his payments if Mr W were  unable to work  
through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I have reached 
this conclusion because  I think  its unlikely Mr W wouldve taken the policy  without any sense 
of what it was for and of how much the premium might be.
Also, the PPI application form Mr W signed called the PPI Payment Protection and referred  
to it as Accident, Sickness  and/or Unemployment cover. It said cover for accident, sickness 
and unemployment  had been selected and said the amount of the monthly benefit was the 
amount of the monthly mortgage payment. With all this in mind, I think its likely Mr W was 
made aware  the PPI was to help protect his mortgage payments  if he couldnt work  due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment - and I think he knew what benefit  it would pay and had 
a good idea of what the amount  of this benefit would be.
Ref: DRN42308246The letter Co-op  sent Mr W summarising  its advice also told him cover wasnt  available for 
chronic (constant and controlled)  health  issues Mr W knew  about when he applied, or for 
any other health issue hed suffered, whether diagnosed or not within  the last 12 months, if 
it returned within 24 months of the policy start.  With this in mind, I think  its likely  Co-op made 
Mr W aware he wouldnt be covered for such chronic health issues  he knew  he had at the 
start, and I think its likely he was made  aware he wouldnt  be covered for any health issue  
hed suffered in the previous year if it returned  within  two years of the policy start.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Co-op  gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about other exclusions  or limitations before Mr W agreed 
to take the policy.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr W Im not persuaded Co-op did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Co-op  gave  Mr W all the information he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Ws representative considers to be poor value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have  gone  further  and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr W has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Co-op  ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Co-ops  shortcomings have  on Mr W? To what extent did Mr W suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Co-op didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr W. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr W suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr W would have  
still taken the policy,  had Co-op done things properly. 
Ref: DRN42308247While Im not persuaded Co-op took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr W, I have found that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr W has suffered  loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Co-op had explained things properly, 
Mr W would  have acted differently, or whether he would have taken  the policy in any event.
Mr W says he wouldnt  have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  given  
the significant failings identified above.  Ive considered the representations of both sides and 
the evidence relating  to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr W had some interest in taking PPI. By this I mean  
when Co-op advised him there  was a suitable product he could buy that would  protect his 
mortgage payments  in the event he were  unable to work because  of accident, sickness or 
unemployment, he concluded he wanted that product. But he made  that decision based on 
incomplete information, meaning  what he thought he was getting  is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr W was given  about  the benefit  was clear. I 
also think its likely Mr W was told he wouldnt be covered  for chronic  health  issues  he knew  
he had at the start or for any health issue hed suffered in the previous year returning within 
two years of the policy start. But the information about other aspects of the policy,  such as 
other exclusions and limitations and the cost, wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not Mr W knew  hed have to pay something for the 
PPI, it doesnt appear Co-op told him the exact  premium at the point he applied. That said, 
from what I have its likely  he was told the cost before the mortgage or policy started, and he 
paid it for a number of years.  So if the cost was significantly  at odds with his expectations at 
the point of sale, its possible he mightve raised  this with Co-op at the time, or reconsidered 
his decision. Overall, Im not persuaded Mr W would have found the cost unacceptable if he 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  he agreed to the policy.
As well as chronic health issues he knew about,  the policy excluded chronic health issues 
Mr W ought to have  known about and claims arising  in any way from a chronic health issue.  
Also, chronic health issues included not only constant and controlled issues  but also issues 
with recurring symptoms that had required medical attention  in the past and issues  requiring 
medical attention  over the long term. 
Also, as well as health issues hed suffered in the year before the start that returned  within  
24 months, the policy would exclude  a health  issue that returned in that way if Mr W knew  or 
shouldve known about it at the start and claims arising in any way from such  health issues.
Ref: DRN42308248But in the light of what Mr W had likely  been  told about the policy health exclusions, I dont 
think that if hed also been told of these  additional  aspects it wouldve significantly altered  his 
understanding or general view of the nature these exclusions. Also, Mr W didnt have 
existing health  issues, chronic or otherwise. So, with all this in mind,  I dont think  better 
information about the PPIs health exclusions wouldve affected Mr Ws decision  to take it.
Aside from these points about  the health  exclusions, possibly the most significant differences 
between what Mr W thought he had bought  and what he actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The requirement that, to claim for disability, Mr W be stopped  from doing  his own job or 
any similar work his experience, education  or training might reasonably  qualify him to do; 
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr W wasnt  
a permanent employee; and
The first 60 days  of any disability or unemployment was excluded, and the policy  benefit 
was payable for up to 12 months rather than the remaining term of the mortgage.   
Co-ops letter about its advice did refer, beneath a section that follows  under the heading 
Unemployment Cover, to the cover period ending after 12 months. I think  this was about  
the 12 months limit on benefit payments, so I think this may have been discussed. But what 
Ive seen about this isnt clear enough  to persuade  me that Co-op likely gave at the meeting 
clear enough  information  about  this limit, either overall or as it related to the disability cover.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr W pause for thought   and may well have caused him to conclude the policy  wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr W from taking the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest Mr W 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  he didnt have any pre-existing 
health issues and was in permanent employment. So, I think Mr W still had some  good 
reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these were more onerous than Mr W might reasonably 
have expected. But its unlikely he wouldve expected to be able to make  a disability claim 
without having  to provide some evidence to support  it. This limitation might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr W from taking the PPI but Mr W, in 
his circumstances,  still had some good reasons to take it.
If Mr W had known he could claim for disability only if he were  not only stopped from doing 
his own job but also stopped from doing  any similar job his experience,  education or training 
might reasonably qualify  him to do, it might have played into his thinking  about what to do. 
And I accept  this may have given him pause  for thought  although  its possible Mr W may 
not have been overly  concerned given  that if he were unable  to do his own job, the chances 
he would  be able to do a similar job would also, in all probability,  be limited.
Ref: DRN42308249Co-op may not have told Mr W that the first 60 days of disability or unemployment wouldnt 
be covered  and it may not have  told him that any claim he made would be limited  to a 12 
month period.  All this may have differed from what Mr W expected and mightve  hoped  for. 
But Mr W was entitled to only statutory  pay for sickness or redundancy. So, given the loss of 
income he would suffer if he were made redundant or became too sick to work, I consider it 
likely he would have still thought cover that after 60 days would offer help with his mortgage 
payments for up to 12 months, would  be of benefit  to him and would help him manage the 
consequences if he couldnt work  in the circumstances the policy covered. The PPI allowed 
multiple claims and could help reduce Mr Ws outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time, 
making it less likely his home  would  be placed at risk.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not that Mr W would  still have taken the policy. The policy was suitable for him, sufficiently 
close to what its likely  he thought he was getting and had benefits that would help Mr W 
manage the consequences  if he were  made  redundant or if he were  unable to work through 
accident or sickness. In the circumstances, I consider it more likely  than not Mr W would 
have taken the policy in any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr W would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  he found  
himself in as a result of the sale was the same position he would have  been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr W in the position he would have  been  in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
Ref: DRN423082410That is because,  while I accept it is possible Mr W would not have taken the policy,  I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
the PPI had he been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy he was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to 
conclude Co-op  should pay Mr W compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware Mr W thinks Co-op  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it described  
the PPI.  While I accept there  is a possibility a court might conclude  some of Co-ops 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Co-op failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Co-op gave Mr W, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2008 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ws representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find Co-op negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr W and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that Co-op  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr W in a better position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4230824