K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC charged  them an early repayment 
charge (ERC) when  they sold their property and repaid their mortgage, even though  it was 
only a short time before  their fixed rate period ended.
background
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage with Barclays, consisting of two sub-accounts  one for the 
original borrowing and one for a later further  advance. The two sub-accounts had different 
interest rate products,  with a 3% ERC on the main  balance  and a 1% ERC on the further  
borrowing.
Mr and Mrs M decided  to move house  and sold their property in late 2017. As this was 
shortly before the end of the five year fixed rate theyd taken out in 2013, they asked 
Barclays to waive or reduce the ERC, but it wasnt willing  to do so. So they complained.
Mr and Mrs M said the charge was unfair  and unreasonable.  There  was only a few months 
left to run on the fixed rate. They said it was common practice for ERCs to reduce over time 
 but theirs was the same  throughout the fixed rate. They had to sell their property in a weak 
market because of a change in their circumstances, and the ERC made their position  worse. 
They offered  to pay a pro rata amount  of the ERC  they would pay the same  percentage of 
the ERC  as the percentage of time left on the fixed rate. They said that represented the 
return Barclays would have made if the mortgage  had run to the end of the fixed rate.
Barclays didnt agree. It said the ERC  was clearly  set out in the mortgage offers that 
Mr and Mrs M had agreed to. It was entitled to charge  it and didnt think it needed to reduce 
or waive it. But it thought  Mr and Mrs M had been inconvenienced by their complaint so 
offered them  £125  compensation for that. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M took their mortgage  out in around  2013, with a later further advance.  They 
bought a separate property in 2016  but retained  this property, and this mortgage, until 
2017. Mr and Mrs M initially approached  Barclays about lending them money  on the new 
property in 2016, but it refused so they went to another lender. However, they didnt apply to 
port their existing mortgage at that time;  they applied separately  for a new mortgage so that 
they would  have two mortgages running  simultaneously on the old and new properties. It 
wasnt until 2017 that they sold the property mortgaged to Barclays.
Its standard that a fixed interest  rate product comes  with an ERC  for reasons Ill explain 
below. Where a borrower moves house, by selling  their old property and buying a new one, 
they have to pay off the old mortgage   breaking the fixed rate and incurring the ERC. But if 
they take out a new mortgage,  generally  at the same time, to buy the new property with the 
same lender,  the lender  will allow them to move the interest rate product from the old 
mortgage to the new one (this is what is known as porting)  so that the rate doesnt come  to 
an end  and the ERC  can be avoided.
Ref: DRN42463792Thats not what happened here;  Mr and Mrs M didnt apply to port. They applied for a 
standalone new mortgage with the intention, at least for a time, of having the two run 
alongside each  other. They complained about Barclays refusal of that application. Our 
investigator dealt with that complaint  separately  and didnt uphold  it. As there was no porting  
application, the refusal of that application had no effect on Mr and Mrs Ms liability to pay an 
ERC when  this mortgage came to an end. And as theyre no longer complaining about that 
lending decision,  I need say no more  about  it.
That leaves the fairness of the ERC charged  when this mortgage came to an end. In very 
simple terms,  when  a lender offers a fixed rate, both the lender and borrower are tied in to 
the fixed rate for the whole fixed term. Barclays has to raise the funds  it lends out on the 
money markets. It has to pay for those funds  generally over the period it borrows them.  It 
relies on income from borrowers  repaying  the mortgages  to cover the costs of the funds it 
has lent. It budgets  for that income  based  on the length and level of fixed  rates.
So when borrowers repay early,  the lender wont receive the income it was anticipating, and 
needs to service its own borrowing. It can insure  against that in various ways, but theres a 
cost either  to having the borrowing end early   or to protect against  those  costs.  As a result, 
fixed rate mortgages   not just with Barclays, but across the industry  include a clause in 
the mortgage agreement which allows the borrower to exit the mortgage  early  but only in 
return for paying an ERC. The purpose  of the ERC is to compensate the lender  for the early  
end of the fixed rate period. I dont agree with Mr M that its a penalty  which  has a strict 
meaning in law (a charge levied for breaching a contract). Repaying a mortgage early isnt a 
breach of the contract, its something  specifically  allowed for, as long as the borrower pays  
the charge for doing so.
The rules  of mortgage regulation include provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that 
an ERC must be able to be expressed  as a cash value,  and must  be a reasonable pre-
estimate of the costs  resulting  from early termination of the mortgage. Subject to that, theres 
no restriction on how a lender calculates its ERC. And, crucially, a lender is allowed  to 
estimate the risk and costs of early  termination  across a group of mortgages; it doesnt have 
to do so on an individual basis.
So Barclays  can calculate its ERCs based  on a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs  of early 
termination of a group of mortgages   not on the actual cost, or estimated  cost, of 
Mr and Mrs M ending  their individual mortgage  early.
In practice, it cant be known at the time the mortgage is taken out whether an individual 
borrower will or will not end their fixed rate early, and if so when. So a lender cant estimate 
in advance the costs of ending the particular mortgage early. But the lender can estimate  
how many  borrowers, on average, will do so  and apply those costs  across a group of 
mortgages. The price  of the mortgage,  both the interest rate and the ERC, are set at a level 
that allows the lender to recover its costs and operate its business.
Barclays has sent us information about  how its pre-estimate of loss on mortgages of the type 
Mr and Mrs M held was calculated. Its done so in confidence.  Our  rules allow  either party to 
a complaint to submit  evidence in confidence.  Its then for us to decide  if its fair to rely on it 
when deciding the outcome. Barclays has given us information about how it funds its 
mortgages, how its business is organised, and what its various costs are. That information is 
commercially sensitive  and confidential. But its also material  and highly relevant to this 
complaint. So Im satisfied  that its appropriate for me to receive  it in confidence,  subject to 
me summarising it. 
Ref: DRN42463793In summary,  the information shows that theres  a cost to Barclays  in raising the funds it 
lends, and in carrying out the activities around lending, including  protecting  itself against 
market movements while the funds are lent. Those costs  are recovered from the lending. 
Barclays allocates that cost across  its mortgages  factoring in an estimate of how many will 
end before their fixed rates expire. It then uses that estimate to set the ERC  which is built in 
to every mortgage  in the expectation that if the predicted number of mortgages end early,  
overall the ERCs generated  will cover  the costs to Barclays  of early termination.
The ERC Mr and Mrs M paid isnt designed to reflect any losses  Barclays incurred because  
they repaid their mortgage early. Mr M may well be right that those losses are less than the 
ERC. But thats not relevant to whether the ERC was set fairly   because, as the rules allow, 
its set to generate  an estimated share of the overall  losses across the group of mortgages,  
not the actual  individual losses  on that one. Thats something specifically allowed for in the 
regulators rules,  so I dont think its an unfair  approach.
 
Finally, Barclays  chose  to recover the costs  through use of a flat rate rather than a stepped 
rate ERC (that is, one which  reduces  over time). Its 3% throughout the five years  (1% on the 
further advance), and Mr M has argued that it should fairly reduce  over time. But theres  no 
requirement to have a stepped rate  some  lenders  do, some dont. As Ive said, Barclays  
calculated its ERC  in line with the relevant rules. And, as it was clearly  set out in the 
mortgage offer  both the method of calculating it, and a cash  figure  I think  it was fair that 
Barclays charged it when  the mortgage  was repaid. It follows that I dont think it would be fair 
to ask Barclays to refund  some or all of the ERC Mr and Mrs M paid.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 September 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4246379