K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Bank of Scotland  Plc mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1999,  Mrs M recalls the sale was 
on the phone, the bank thinks it was more likely it was in one of the its branches. And the 
application form it has provided supports this. The policy was taken out at the same time as 
Mrs M applied for the credit card. It gave her protection  against  accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint  because:
 Mrs M says she was unaware she had PPI, it must have been added without her 
knowledge. But the application form she completed  and signed  shows that she ticked  a 
box indicating that she wanted  the cover. And there was nothing  on the form that I 
think could reasonably have led her to believe she had to select  it. So, overall, I think 
its most  likely Bank of Scotland made Mrs M aware the PPI was optional  and she 
chose to take it. 
 Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs M, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs M 
says she was entitled to statutory sick pay but the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 
months. It also gave her up to 12 months  redundancy  cover. She also said her parents 
would have helped,  but thats  not suitable  alternative protection. Its not guaranteed 
and peoples  circumstances can change.  So, overall, I think PPI wouldve  been useful 
to Mrs M if she lost her job or was sick and unable to work.
 Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should  have  been.  But Mrs M chose to take out the policy  and so appears  to 
have wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy  was competitively  priced  and apparently affordable.  So I think 
it unlikely Mrs M wouldve  made a different decision if better  information  had been  
provided. On balance I think she would still have taken out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mrs M has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
Ref: DRN41359492my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4135949