K820x#14Complaint
Mr L says Oakbrook Finance Limited, trading  as Likely Loans, shouldnt  have lent him 
money in 2018.
Background
In October  2018, Mr L borrowed  £3,600 from Likely Loans. He would repay this amount, with 
interest, over 36 months at a monthly  cost of £190.16. The total amount  repayable  over the 
full term of the loan was £6,845.76.
Mr L says Likely Loans acted irresponsibly by lending him the money. He says that at the 
time of the loan application, he had a number of short-term loans and a loan with another 
provider which he was struggling to repay. He also says he had a gambling addiction and a 
history of poor credit, which Likely Loans  would  have realised had it carried out adequate 
checks.
 
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ls complaint. She felt that, based  on what  shed seen,  she 
didnt think Likely Loans had carried out proportionate checks before it lent Mr L the money. 
She didnt,  however, conclude that Likely Loans  was wrong to lend Mr L the money,  as the 
available evidence demonstrated that it was more likely than not that the loan repayments  
were affordable and sustainable.
Mr L didnt agree. So, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable I have taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and what I 
consider to have  been good industry  practice  at the time. Taking  all of this into account, I 
think the overarching  questions I need  to consider  in deciding  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstance of this complaint are:
Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mr L 
would be able repay the loan in a sustainable way? If not, would those checks have 
shown that Mr L would have been  able to do so?
Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine that Likely Loans did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with Mr L and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider  what  is fair compensation.
Did Likely Loans, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr L 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
The regulations in place when Likely Loans lent to Mr L required it to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of whether Mr L could afford to repay his loan in a sustainable manner. This is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment  or an affordability  check.
Ref: DRN46374782The affordability check should have been  borrower-focused  so Likely  Loans  had to think  
about whether  repaying the loan sustainably would cause financial difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Mr L. In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to only think  about 
the likelihood that it would  get its money back  without  considering  the impact of the loan 
repayments on Mr L himself.
The checks  Likely  Loans carried  out also had to be proportionate to the specific  
circumstances of the loan application.  In general,  what constitutes a proportionate  
affordability check will depend  on a number of factors including, the particular circumstances 
of the borrower  and the amount, type and cost of credit they are applying  for. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate  check will more likely  than not look different for different 
loan applications.
In light of that, I think reasonable and proportionate  checks should generally  be more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income  (as it could be harder to make any loan repayments  
from a lower income);
the higher  the amount  to be repaid (as it could  be harder to meet a higher 
repayments from a given income);
the longer  the term of the loan (as the total cost of the loan is likely to be greater  and 
the customer is required to make payments for an extended period).
Ive carefully considered  what reasonable and proportionate checks  should have looked like
when Likely  Loans  was in the process of approving  the loan for Mr L. And Ive thought  
carefully about what checks Likely Loans says it did and whether those were proportionate in 
the circumstances.
Having considered the available  information, Im not satisfied the checks carried out by 
Likely Loans were  reasonable and proportionate when assessing Mr Ls ability to repay the 
loan in a sustainable manner. Ill explain why.
Likely Loans believes the affordability checks it carried out when  Mr L applied  for the loan 
were sufficient. In support  of this, its sent me copies  of the information  it relied  on when 
deciding to lend Mr L the money. This included  copies  of the loan agreement and a summary 
of the information Mr L provided when he applied for the loan. Likely Loans also sent me a 
copy of Mr Ls credit  file, which appears  to have been generated after Mr L applied  for the 
loan  in December 2018. 
Having thought about what  Likely Loans has said about the checks it carried  out, I dont think  
they were proportionate  in the circumstances  of this complaint. I say this because,  Mr L was 
borrowing a large  sum of money over long period of time  36 months. As a result, I would 
have expected Likely Loans  to carry out an income  and expenditure assessment,  to ensure 
that Mr L had sufficient disposable  income to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
Would proportionate checks on this loan have indicated to Likely  Loans that Mr L would have 
been unable  to repay his loans in a sustainable  manner?
I dont think proportionate checks were carried out, so I need to decide whether it is more 
likely than not that a proportionate check would have indicated  that it was unfair for Likely  
Loans to lend Mr L the money  given  his financial circumstances  at the time. 
Ref: DRN46374783In order to gain a better understanding  of Mr Ls financial situation at the time he applied  for 
the loan, Ive had a look at his bank statements for the period September and October  2018.  
These show that Mr L had started  a new job and was earning a net salary of £3,500 a 
month. These statements also show that in September 2018, Mr L was paying around 
£1,500 in respect of rent, bills, a car loan and an unsecured loan with his bank. I can also 
see he transferred around £900  to his partner  using the reference [partner] bills. By my 
calculations, this would have left Mr L with around  £1,100 disposable income each month.
Mr L has told us that at the time he applied for this loan, he was struggling to repay an 
existing loan with another  provider. He also says he was relying  on short-term loans and had 
a gambling addiction which was causing financial  hardship.
Looking at Mr Ls bank  statements  for the period 1 September  to 28 October 2018, I cant 
see any credits  from any short-term lenders.  I can, however, see that Mr L successfully 
applied for a number  of short-term loans after he applied for this loan.  I also cant  see 
anything on Mr Ls credit report which shows he was reliant  on short-term loans in the weeks 
prior to this loan application, or that he had another loan which he was struggling to repay. 
Ive also considered what Mr L has said about  his gambling addiction. While I can see a 
significant number  of gambling transactions  after he applied for this loan, I dont think the 
gambling activity on his bank statements in the weeks before this loan application, would 
have alerted Likely Loans to the fact that Mr L was spending a disproportionate  amount of 
his income on gambling. Looking  at the transactions on his bank statements for the period 
1 September to 28 October 2018,  the gambling  activity appears limited  to seven 
transactions, most  of which took place after Mr L appears to have won some money. The 
remaining transactions all took place after Mr L had been paid his salary  and at a time when 
he had reasonable amount of money  in his account.  
While I dont doubt what Mr L has told us about  his gambling addiction  and I accept that 
there were a significant amount of gambling  transactions on Mr Ls bank statements 
following this loan  I dont think Mr Ls bank statements for the weeks  leading  up to this loan 
application, would have made  Likely Loans question whether  it was right to lend Mr L the 
money.
In addition to reviewing Mr Ls bank statements, Ive also considered  whether  there  was 
anything within Mr Ls credit report which would  have alerted Likely Loans to the fact that the 
loan repayments  werent  affordable in a sustainable way. Based on what Ive seen, I dont 
think there was.
According to the available credit  report, Mr L owed around £3,905 to his existing creditors. 
The credit report also shows that Mr L wasnt behind on the repayments  of any of his 
existing credit commitments in the years prior to this loan application. 
While Mr Ls credit file shows  that he defaulted  on a short-term loan in late 2013,  I dont think  
this means that Likely Loans was wrong  to lend him the money. I accept  that Mr L had 
previously been  in an individual voluntary arrangement many years  before he applied  for this 
loan, but it looks  like Mr Ls financial situation  had improved significantly over the years.  So 
in the circumstances of this case  I think  that even if Likely Loans had been aware of the 
default and individual voluntary arrangement  it wouldnt  have been an unreasonable 
decision to approve  Mr Ls loan application.
Ref: DRN46374784I accept that different checks may show different things, but I havent seen anything 
persuasive to suggest that the loan repayments  werent affordable in a sustainable  manner 
at the time Mr L applied  for this loan.
Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Having carefully thought  about everything, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Likely  
Loans acted unfairly  or unreasonably towards Mr L in some  other  way.
Overall and having carefully thought  about the two overarching  questions,  set out on pages 
two and three of this decision, I dont think that Likely Loans acted unfairly  or unreasonably 
when deciding to lend Mr L the money. As a result, I dont think  Mr L has lost out because  of 
anything that Likely Loans did wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr L to accept or reject 
my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4637478