K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money to them through  
their request  to make a chargeback for two payments they made from their current account 
to a holiday club company.
background
Mr and Mrs P say they made two substantial payments from their current account in 
December 2015  to a company running a holiday club. 
Mr and Mrs P feel the company running the holiday club hasnt delivered what was 
promised. They have  attempted to get money  back from the holiday club without success. 
In February 2019,  Mr and Mrs P asked Barclays to make a chargeback claim. Barclays 
replied and said as it was a buyer-seller dispute  it couldnt get involved. Mr and Mrs P 
brought their complaint  to this service.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  but he didnt  think Barclays  had done  
anything wrong. He explained  that chargebacks can only be raised on card transactions. As 
Mr and Mrs P told us the two payments they made  were by bank  transfer, he thought  
Barclays were  correct  not to attempt  a chargeback. He acknowledged that Barclays could 
have explained  the situation  clearer. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt  agree. They said they werent aware of the time limits and still feel they 
should have their money refunded. They also mentioned  that they believed the first 
transaction was made by card. 
Mr and Mrs P asked  for their complaint  to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im very sorry that Mr and Mrs P are in the position they are. I understand it must be very 
upsetting for them. But Im not going  to uphold their complaint, as I dont think  Barclays has 
done anything  wrong.
Chargeback is a process that is provided  by card schemes such  as Visa and MasterCard. It 
allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed  if there's  a problem with the goods 
or services they've paid for. There's  no automatic right to a chargeback. Nor is chargeback  a 
guaranteed method of getting a refund. There are strict scheme rules that need to be met for 
a successful claim. 
But for a chargeback to be considered the transaction  must  involve  a card payment. In Mr 
and Mrs Ps original complaint, they said that both of the transactions they are seeking to 
recover were made by bank transfer.  Barclays has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Ps bank 
statement. This shows the second larger transaction  to the holiday club made by a bank 
transfer in January 2015. There is no record at all for the smaller  first transaction. Mr and 
Mrs P say they think that the first transaction was made by card - possibly from an account 
in Mrs Ps name.  Barclays searched  its account information, and although found an account 
Ref: DRN46458592in Mrs Ps sole name, it didnt find any other transactions involving  a payment to the holiday 
club on this account.  Mr and Mrs P havent been  able to provide any statements to show that 
a card payment  from a Barclays  account was used  to make the first payment. Ive also noted  
that the agreement Mr and Mrs P signed  with the holiday  club states that payment was due 
to be paid by bank transfer. 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs P made the second  payment through Barclays by bank transfer. I 
havent seen anything to say Barclays was involved in the first transaction,  but on balance, it 
also seems this was made  by bank transfer.  As Ive explained, bank transfers  arent covered 
by chargeback schemes. So for this reason, I find that Barclays was acting reasonably  when 
it didnt attempt a chargeback. And, I cant fairly ask Barclays to reimburse Mr and Mrs P 
with the money  they paid to the holiday club.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs P, but for the reasons Ive set out above,  I dont uphold 
their complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against Barclays  Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 July 2019.  
Daniel Little
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4645859