K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) failed to set up a Standing Order 
to a mortgage company correctly which resulted in his property being repossessed and 
receivership costs.
background
Mr C says he called RBS to set up a Standing Order to repay  a mortgage on a rental 
property. He says RBS didnt set up the details correctly which  resulted in the payments  not 
being made and as a result the property was repossessed,  which  also resulted in 
receivership costs of about £3,000. Mr C says he would like compensation for that cost and 
for what took place.
RBS initially accepted it made a mistake and refunded  the costs  for the unpaid  Standing  
Orders and paid £40 compensation. But it said that even if the Standing Order had been  set 
up correctly then the payments couldnt have  been made as Mr C didnt have  enough money 
in his account. RBS says it isnt responsible for Mr C not paying  his mortgage and he ought 
to have received  arrears  letters  from the mortgage company.
RBS looked at the complaint again and listened  to the call between it and Mr C and thought 
it had set up the Standing Order correctly. But there wasnt enough  money in the account on 
the day it was set up for to make the payment. It also thought  Mr C used online banking and 
ought to have seen that the payment wasnt being  made.
Mr C had brought his complaint to us and confirmed that the property hadnt  been 
repossessed. And that it was likely he had received arrears letters but had been working 
away.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and didnt  uphold  it. She listened  to the call 
between the parties  and thought Mr C had accepted he was aware of the mortgage arears  
and that there wasnt enough money  in the account  to pay the mortgage.  The adjudicator 
thought the Standing Order had been  set up correctly and it wasnt RBSs  fault the payments 
were not made.
Mr C doesnt accept  that view and would like the receivership  costs  refunded  and says his 
main point has been overlooked.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for similar  reasons. I realise Mr C will be disappointed  by my 
decision.
Ive listened to the call between Mr C and RBS and Im satisfied that RBSs  advisor offered 
to go through  the account details with Mr C. But he said it wasnt  necessary as he didnt 
have the account details  to hand  in any event.  So I dont  think  RBS made a mistake by using 
the details it had on its records to set up the Standing Order and Ive not seen any evidence 
that those details were  incorrect.  Im satisfied that Mr C told RBS during the call that he 
hadnt been paying the mortgage company properly and that payments were  being made in 
dribs and drabs. So I think regardless of if there was a mistake  in the setting up of the 
Standing Order that Mr C ought to have been aware of the arrears and that it was his 
Ref: DRN46912822responsibility to make  sure the mortgage  payments were made.  I also think  that Mr C has 
accepted it likely he did receive arrears letters and so would have  known about  those 
arrears.
I think on balance that its likely that Standing Order was set up correctly  and the reason the 
mortgage payments  were  not made was because there wasnt  enough money in Mr Cs 
account. I have  looked  at RBSs records and can see that on the day of the Standing Order 
in October, November  and December that was the case.
Overall Im satisfied that RBS hasnt made a mistake or acted  unfairly. So I cant fairly order 
it to pay for the receivership costs  as Mr C would like. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4691282