K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) was 
irresponsible in its lending  to him.
background
Based on the information, Satsuma Loans  provided Mr C with three loans between March 
2016 and August 2017. 
Mr C says he couldnt afford the loans and that that the repayments took so much of his 
money that he had to borrow  again to cover  his living expenses.  He says his credit  report 
would have shown  his other  debts  and that he was experiencing problems managing these.
Satsuma Loans  says that before the loans were provided information was gathered about 
Mr Cs monthly  income and expenses. It says Mr C confirmed that the payments were 
sustainable and based on the information  it gathered the repayments were affordable. It 
says it carried out credit  checks and these  didnt suggest the loans werent affordable.  It 
says Mr C repaid his first two loans without any financial difficulties being raised. 
At the time the final response letter was issued (July 2018) Satsuma Loans said that loan 
three remained outstanding.
Our adjudicator didnt  think she had seen enough  to be able to say the first two loans 
shouldnt have been provided but she did uphold this complaint in regard to loan three. She 
said that by this time, Mr Cs overall  pattern of borrowing suggested he had become 
persistently reliant  on short-term loans. 
Satsuma Loans  didnt agree with out adjudicators  view and so the complaint has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to issue a decision. 
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma Loans  needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma Loans should  fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer.  These factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN43563332the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma Loans was required to 
establish whether  Mr C could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
I can see that before the loans were provided information about  Mr Cs income and 
expenses was gathered as well as credit  checks carried out. Based on this I agree with our 
adjudicator that there isnt enough to say that loans one and two shouldnt have been 
provided.
The first two loans were repaid on time, however  I think that by the time the third loan was 
provided, Satsuma Loans  should have been concerned  that Mr C was possibly reliant on 
short term loans. I say this because he was taking out new loans  before  the previous loan 
had been repaid and by the time of the third loan,  he had been borrowing from Satsuma 
Loans for around 17 months without any gaps.  The loan amount for the third loan increased 
significantly from the previous two loans suggesting his situation  was getting worse.  
Overall I think  the pattern  of Mr Cs borrowing showed he was struggling to manage  his 
money and that Satsuma  Loans should  have realised by loan three  that lending  to Mr C 
wasnt sustainably affordable.  
Based on the above I uphold this complaint in regard to loan three.
Ref: DRN43563333my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loan three. 
I understand that loan three  hasnt  been  fully repaid therefore Provident Personal  Credit 
Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) should reduce  the debt to reflect just the capital 
borrowed and deduct any payments Mr C has made towards  this debt. Mr C will remain  
liable for any remaining  capital amount. In the event that after the payments have been 
applied there  is a positive balance this should  be refunded to Mr C.  
If the debt has now been  repaid then Provident Personal Credit  Limited  (trading as Satsuma 
Loans) should  refund  all interest  and charges that Mr C paid on loan three along with interest 
of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of settlement*.
The number of loans  taken at the point of loan three means any information recorded about  
it is adverse. So all entries about  loan three  should  be removed from Mr Cs credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Satsuma Loans  must  give Mr C a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4356333