K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about charges Santander  UK plc has applied to his account
background
Mr G says Santander has unfairly applied charges to his account from about  2011 to 2013.  
He says they amount to about £1,024  and caused him financial difficulties. Mr G says they 
were unfair and caused a cycle of debt which Santander did nothing to help him with. He 
would like the charges refunded and interest of about £400 paid to him.
Santander says the charges were correctly  applied in line with the account terms and 
conditions. It says the level of the charges cant be challenged following a Supreme Court 
decision in 2009  and says it doesnt have a record of Mr G telling it that he was in financial 
difficulties at the time.
Mr G brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt  uphold  it. The investigator  
thought we could only look at the charges from January 2012 as the other  charges were  
more than six years before Mr G made his complaint.  The investigator didnt think there  was 
any evidence that the charges were incorrectly applied or not applied in line with the account 
terms and conditions. The investigator thought Mr G ought  to have been aware of them and 
didnt tell Santander about any financial difficulties. He also thought  Santander had given 
Mr G a telephone  number to contact it about  any financial difficulties.
Mr G doesnt accept  that view and has asked that it be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr G will be disappointed by my decision.
The investigator has explained that we can only look at the charges from January 2012 as 
we are subject to rules  about time limits. Mr G hasnt said if he accepts the investigators 
view on this point so I make it clear that I agree with the investigators decision on this for the 
same reasons.
As Mr G knows bank  charges cant be challenged  on the basis they are too high and so 
unfair following a Supreme  Court decision in 2009. And Ive not seen any evidence  that the 
charges were incorrectly applied or applied outside the account terms and conditions.  So I 
dont think Santander  has made a mistake  or acted  unfairly by applying  the charges it did.
I appreciate that Mr G says he was in financial difficulties  at the time and the charges didnt 
help his position. In those  circumstances  Santander  ought to act positively and 
sympathetically towards Mr G. But I cant see any note on Santanders records that it was 
made aware  of any difficulties. I can see that Santander did provide Mr G with the telephone 
number of its specialist  team  that could have  assisted him. So in those circumstances I dont 
think Santander could  have done  much  more at the time. I also think that having looked  at 
Mr Gs account statements that he was making  numerous payments to certain types  of 
businesses at that time which  may not have helped his financial position.
Overall Im satisfied that Santander hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly and so I cant  
reasonably order  it to refund the charges Mr G would like.
Ref: DRN47046782my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4704678