K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains Aviva Life and Pensions  UK Limited  misled him about the terminal  bonus 
hed receive on his pension policy. 
background
In 1986 when in his late twenties Mr P was self-employed  so had no employers 
occupational pension scheme.  He attended  his local branch of Norwich Union (now Aviva)  
and started a Retirement  Annuity Contract  pension plan (also known as a S226 policy) to 
provide him with a retirement  income  at age 60. Mr P agreed to contribute  £60 per month 
including waiver of premium and his savings would  be invested in the with-profits fund. 
He says he was told the policy would receive a final bonus equal to the value  of the policy, 
so doubling it. 
In 2019 at age 60 Mr P discovered his pension  savings had increased to just over £69,200 
but the final bonus was only around  £4,000 which was much less than he expected, 
meaning he had to delay his plans  to retire. So he complained to Aviva suspecting  the policy 
was mis-sold to earn commission. He says he was young and inexperienced and trusted 
what he was told. Aviva said theres  no evidence it had been  an advised  sale and no 
commission was paid.  But even  so, Mr Ps bonus  had been calculated correctly.  
So Mr P complained to this service saying Aviva had given him the name of the employee 
who sold the policy who had other  complaints against him, supporting Mr Ps belief the policy 
was fraudulently sold. Aviva clarified  that person was possibly an inspector who worked  in 
the branch Mr P attended, and while there had been three complaints against him, they 
hadnt been upheld. 
Our investigator considered the information available  and couldnt  safely say Aviva  had sold 
the policy to Mr P or that he was entitled  to a 100%  bonus. Mr P believes Aviva  has withheld 
information and is sure he was told the terminal bonus would be equal to the policy value. 
So its been  passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. Let me explain why.
Theres little available  evidence  from the time Mr P started the policy,  which I dont find 
surprising given it took place more than thirty  years  ago. Mr P no longer has copies of the 
original policy schedule  and endorsements  even though they are marked as being important 
documents, having moved several times  over the years. But Mr P recalls  the employee  he 
dealt with countersigning the policy at the time. 
Aviva was able to provide a scanned copy of the original application form. This has Mr Ps 
signature, but theres no information  or signature relating to a sales  person  or representative  
from Aviva. So I agree  with the investigator,  its not clear this was an advised sale by Aviva. 
Mr P might have discussed  the application with or been provided with information  by a 
member of staff in the branch.  But that doesnt mean  they recommended  the policy  to Mr P. 
Ref: DRN48064442During the course of the investigation Mr P provided a copy of what he thought were the 
cancellation rights of the policy which said it had been recommended  by a representative of 
Norwich Union. But this turned  out to relate to a completely separate policy Mr P hadnt 
remembered he started in 1989 to accept DSS contributions, and which had matured in 
2005 valued at around £7,000.  
The application form from 1986 shows Mr P was self-employed with no access to an 
occupational pension scheme,  so generally speaking taking out a personal  pension plan is a 
tax-efficient way to save for retirement. Ive seen the original plan terms and conditions 
issued at the time of sale which state  that if Mr P made monthly  contributions of £60.90 for 
32 years  (so paying in just under £23,386) his plan would be worth  £37,997 with compound  
bonus.  As Mr P was invested  in the with profits fund Im assuming compound  bonus 
means the cumulative effect  of annual bonuses plus the final bonus. But although there  are 
ten points to the terms and conditions none  mention the bonus or how it would be calculated,  
and no guarantee is given.  Mr Ps plan at maturity  was valued at around £69,200 plus a 
terminal bonus of around £4,000. So while I understand his disappointment  if he was 
expecting a larger bonus and doesnt  feel he can afford to retire,  I dont think its performed 
as badly as Mr P fears. 
Mr P agrees  memories can fade over time but says he has a crystal  clear recollection of 
what he was told at the meeting in relation to the terminal bonus. Although he accepts  he 
doesnt remember much  else, and he didnt recall he took a separate  policy in 1989.  While  I 
dont doubt Mr Ps sincere recollection of what was said at the time, I find it unlikely he 
wouldve been told his policy  had a guaranteed 100%  bonus,  as by their nature bonuses are 
discretionary, linked to performance and arent  guaranteed. And a terminal or final bonus is 
only calculated at the maturity of the policy, in this case  Mr Ps 60th birthday, which at the 
time he took it out was 33 years in the future. Although investment returns were generally 
much higher  in the 1980s and so predictions  about  performance tended  to be more  
optimistic than has proved  to be the case, I think perhaps Mr P was led to believe the policy  
would perform well based on the investment returns at the time. But thats not the same as 
being given a guarantee. 
Mr P didnt increase  his contributions over the life of the policy but says he would have done  
so had he known  it might be necessary. Theres little evidence  to show  what  information  was 
sent to Mr P over the years. But Ive seen a letter from April 2009  from Aviva to Mr Ps 
financial advisor at the time which gave a current valuation of just over £31,000 but The 
value cannot be guaranteed as it includes a final bonus which  may change  at any time. It 
also warns that Mr Ps plan has guaranteed  benefits  and to pay out more than these would 
require performance  above the range of 5-6% and we currently are not seeing such  a 
return.  Mr P says he didnt see that letter. But it appears to in response to an enquiry from 
the advisor and it seems  likely Aviva  would have needed Mr Ps agreement to respond  to the 
advisor. So I think the enquiry was made with Mr Ps knowledge even if he doesnt recall  it 
now. 
Ive also seen a letter addressed to Mr P dated  1 September 2009 containing information 
about bonus rates and quoted a sum assured of just under £34,000 and bonuses previously 
declared of £31,517.30  It goes on to say the quoted values dont include the final bonus,  
and that details of the current rates of any final bonus can be found  on Avivas website but 
these may change at any time. 
To find out more it refers  to information about the with-profit fund Aviva had sent previously 
sent Mr P. It shows his gross  contributions  for the previous year of £720 and explained the 
Ref: DRN48064443policy has a Guaranteed Annity Rate (GAR) which is a valuable  benefit which  may be lost on 
transfer. 
Mr P says he didnt get this letter either.  Avivas records show  it held seven addresses for 
Mr P over the years.  But Mr P confirmed  he did live at the address of the 2009 letter at the 
time, so I think its most likely he did receive it and has just forgotten. And perhaps the 
similarity of the quoted policy value and declared bonus led him to think the policy  value and 
bonus for his policy would be the same at his retirement. But I cant hold Aviva  responsible  
for an assumption Mr P made.  
While Mr P didnt  recall  who dealt with him in 1986 he says he immediately recognised the 
name when  it was mentioned to him by Avivas complaint handler. Being told this person had 
complaints against  him has convinced Mr P of his dishonesty. Aviva says this name  came  to 
light as its complaint handler undertook  some  further investigation into the sale at Mr Ps 
insistence. And that the three complaints against  him were not upheld. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr P but I dont  think the name of someone who might  have  worked in the office 
Mr P attended at the time,  even  if they had complaints  recorded  against them, is enough  to 
show the sale was advised, or that Aviva  has done  anything wrong. 
So overall from the limited  information  available, theres nothing to show  Mr P was misled  or 
that his final bonus was calculated incorrectly. So it follows I dont require Aviva to increase 
the final bonus for Mr Ps policy. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4806444