K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  about  Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plcs handling of her 
motability car insurance policy.
background
On 11 June 2018, Miss S was involved in a minor  accident where  another car backed into 
the front of her car. There was damage  to the number plate and the bracket  that holds it in 
place. RSAs approved  repairer (AR) collected  the car on 5 July 2018. After the damage was 
repaired the car was returned to Miss S on 12 July.
Miss S said that two or three weeks after she had her car back the dashboard light came  on 
indicating there  was a problem.  She took her car to a main  dealer garage to see what  was 
wrong. The garage advised Miss S that there was a problem with the front radar.  I 
understand it to be an anti-collision radar. The garage said the radars cover was missing  
and it had to be recalibrated. Miss S said that when  RSAs  AR collected the car the radars  
cover was on. 
Miss S reported the issue to RSA.  RSAs AR collected the car on 24 August and assessed it. 
They said there was evidence that the car had suffered an impact at the front as the front 
grille was pushed  in. They said it was possible the problem  with the radar was as a result  of 
that impact. RSA said the problem was unrelated  to the accident in June  or to the ARs 
repair work in July. RSA said they would have to treat the problem  as a new claim on the 
policy and Miss S would  have to pay a £100  excess.  Miss S disagreed. She said the car 
hadnt been involved in any incidents  since  the June accident. She also said there was no 
external damage  to support  RSAs suggestion that there was an impact.  Miss S said that she 
refused to let RSA treat it as a new claim. But as RSA took away her courtesy car and 
refused to return her car, in October  she paid the £100 excess  in protest. RSA then had the 
radar recalibrated, the cover replaced and returned  the car to her on 31 October.
Miss S complained. From  what Miss S has told us, I understand her complaint to be the 
following:
Having seen the repair breakdown for the June accident, RSA did unnecessary  work 
to the car which Miss S hadn't reported.  RSA claimed for the costs of that work from 
the other drivers insurer. Miss S believes RSA committed insurance fraud.
RSAs AR sub-contracted  the recalibration work to another  company without  telling 
Miss S.
Miss S wasnt kept updated with the progress of the repair.
She was discriminated against  because she is disabled.
RSAs AR must have  caused the problem to the radar as they had it recalibrated  
during the repair  work following the June  2018  accident.
Miss S asked RSA to provide her the photographs the AR took on 5 July when they 
collected her car but RSA failed to provide those. She said the photos would have 
shown there was no damage  to the radar as a result  of the accident  on 11 June. 
RSA havent  properly investigated  Miss Ss complaint.
RSA didnt uphold  Miss Ss complaint.  Miss S didn't think  that was fair, so she brought her 
complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into it. She felt that RSA had dealt  
with Miss S fairly. As Miss S didnt agree with our investigator, her complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN45836512my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Miss S, but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
In her complaint, Miss S has made a number  of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
very carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My 
role is to decide if RSA have dealt with Miss S in a fair and reasonable way.
the repair following  the June 2018 accident
Miss S said RSA did unnecessary work to her car which she hadnt said was damaged 
during the June 2018 accident. I have seen the breakdown of the work  RSA did. The work 
they did appears consistent  with the accident Miss S reported. RSAs  engineer  said the 
radar needed a reset as the impact  was directly where the radar  sits and any movement in 
them sensors throws the calibration out making the safety aspect redundant. Often even 
minor repair work  can cost hundreds  if not thousands of pounds. And because insurers 
guarantee repair work their ARs do, they use established repairers who adhere to higher 
standards than some  local, independent garages. So, whereas a smaller garage  might repair 
certain parts ARs tend to replace parts where necessary. I should also say that in Miss Ss 
case, as the other driver was at fault their insurer paid for the repair  costs.  And where that 
happens, the paying insurer  tends  to scrutinise  what repairs  have been done  to make sure 
the repairs were necessary and their costs reasonable. If unnecessary repair  work  has been 
done the other insurer is not likely to pay for it. So, I dont  think  RSA would have carried out 
unnecessary repairs  to Miss Ss car nor would they have  claimed  for work  that wasnt done. 
Finally, I will also point out that the AR is a professional and has expertise in doing such  
repair work, whereas,  as far as Im aware, Miss S doesnt have that expertise. And Miss S 
hasnt provided  any expert evidence,  such  as another engineers report,  to show the repair 
work done was not needed.  Im therefore  not upholding this part of the complaint.
Finally, an allegation  of insurance fraud  is a criminal matter for the police and the Crown  
Prosecution Service. Its not within my remit to comment on such  an allegation.
RSAs AR sub-contracted the recalibration work to another  company
RSA have explained, as Ive detailed  above,  why it was necessary to recalibrate the radar on 
Miss Ss car following the June 2018 accident.  Theyve also said that their AR didnt have 
the capability to carry out that work,  which is why it was sub-contracted to another  company. 
That is perfectly normal practice and I wouldnt expect RSA to tell Miss S that they were 
going to do that. Ultimately, RSA are responsible for their ARs repair work and any agents  
they or their AR use. Im therefore not upholding this aspect of the complaint.
RSA didnt keep  Miss S updated of the progress of the repair
RSA collected  Miss Ss car on 5 July and returned it to her on 12 July. I dont think that was 
an unreasonably long period of time and I wouldnt have expected RSA to provide progress 
reports at the various stages. RSA provided Miss S with a courtesy  car so she was able to 
remain mobile. Im therefore  not upholding this part of the complaint.
RSA discriminated against  Miss S because she is disabled
Ref: DRN45836513Other than Miss S telling  us that she believed she was taken advantage of or discriminated 
against because  of her disability,  I havent  seen any convincing evidence  that that was the 
case. Im therefore not upholding this aspect  of the complaint.
RSAs AR caused the problem to the radar 
As Ive explained above, I accept that it was necessary for the radar to be recalibrated as a 
result of the June 2018 accident. RSAs  AR said that had the radars cover not been in 
position when  the car was returned  to Miss S on 12 July, the cars computer would have 
signalled that there  was a problem immediately by illuminating a dashboard light. And had 
that happened, I think Miss S would have noticed that straight  away. But that didnt happen 
until some  weeks after the car was returned.  Our investigator gave Miss S the opportunity to 
get her own engineering evidence to disprove what RSAs engineer said. But Miss S refused 
to do that. She said RSA should have provided  diagnostic reports before  and after the 
repairs that would have shown if there were any problems. RSA said that diagnostic reports  
werent kept so those  couldnt be provided.  And, on the available evidence, Im satisfied with 
the evidence given by RSAs engineer, namely that if the radars cover wasnt  present when 
the car was returned, that the warning light would have come  on. And given RSA felt it was 
necessary to have  the radar recalibrated, I think it would have been  checked once that was 
done and the engineer would have been  satisfied that the radar was in working order  before 
returning the car to Miss S.
Ive also seen the photo provided by RSA that shows that when Miss Ss car was collected 
the second time the front grille of the car appears  pushed inwards,  which RSA said supports 
their suggestion that there may have been an impact which  may have damaged the radar.  
Ive also seen a photo taken by Miss S on 11 June, the date of the accident.  The grille seen 
in Miss Ss photo  appears  perfectly  aligned which suggests to me that something happened  
after the date of the accident that caused  the grille to be pushed  in. Miss S said that there 
were no other incidents or accidents  after the June 2018 accident. But I think its possible 
that something could  have happened without Miss S being aware, for example another car 
bumped into hers while it was parked and unattended.  Again,  Miss S hasnt  provided  any 
engineering evidence to contradict what RSA said. Im therefore not satisfied that theres any 
convincing evidence to show  RSA are responsible for the fault with the radar.  Im therefore 
not upholding this part of the complaint.
photographs from 5 July
Miss S said that she repeatedly asked  RSA to provide her copies of the photos  RSAs AR 
took on 5 July 2018 when  they collected her car. Miss S said the photos would have shown 
that there  was no damage to the radar following the June 2018 accident. RSA told us that 
there are no photos from 5 July because their AR didnt take any on that date. Miss S 
disagrees.
Regardless of whether  RSA have provided photos  from 5 July 2018, I think that RSA are in 
agreement with Miss S in that they also say there was no obvious damage  to the radar as a 
result of the June 2018 accident. They said its likely that an impact  happened sometime 
after 12 July when RSA returned the car to Miss S which caused the problem with the radar 
in late July/early August.  Had the radars cover been missing when RSA collected the car on 
5 July, I would have expected them to have replaced the cover when they had it recalibrated, 
but that wasnt the case. And Miss S has also confirmed that when RSA collected the car on 
5 July the radars cover was on. So I dont think that photos from 5 July would have made 
Ref: DRN45836514any difference to the outcome of Miss Ss complaint. Clearly when the car was returned to 
Miss S on 12 July the radar  was in working order otherwise the cars  computer would  have 
alerted Miss S as explained by RSAs engineer.
RSA havent properly investigated  Miss Ss complaint
I have seen RSAs  file notes. They show that when Miss S raised her complaint RSA 
investigated the issues she raised.  Ive seen that they spoke with their AR and gathered  
information; they corresponded with Miss S; and they engaged with our service. Im 
therefore not upholding this part of the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020. 
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4583651