K821x#15complaint
Mr B says MYJAR  Limited (trading as MYJAR) mis-sold  him payday loans because it 
shouldve realised he was showing signs  of financial difficulties. 
 
background
Mr B took 10 loans from MYJAR between November 2015  and October  2017.  A summary of 
Mr Bs borrowing, based  on the information  provided to us by MYJAR, can be found in the 
table below:
loan number loan amount received date actual  repayment date
1 £100.00 03/11/2015 30/11/2015
2 £300.00 06/12/2015 31/12/2015
3 £525.00 04/01/2016 29/02/2016
4 £350.00 04/03/2016 31/05/2016
5 £450.00 02/06/2016 31/10/2016
6 £200.00 15/11/2016 30/11/2016
7 £1,000.00 01/12/2016 31/05/2017
8 £450.00 01/06/2017 31/08/2017
9 £100.00 03/09/2017 10/10/2017
10 £900.00 10/10/2017 outstanding  
In our most recent assessment the adjudicator thought MYJAR had treated Mr B fairly when 
it gave him loans 1  4. However, he didnt  think that any of the remaining loans shouldve 
been provided.  
By loan 5, the adjudicator  thought MYJAR  shouldve stopped lending to Mr B because  by 
this point the loans were  no longer  sustainable  for him. 
Mr B appears to have  accepted the adjudicators  findings and Mr B also provided us with a 
copy of his credit file and bank statements  covering the period that loans 3 and 4 were 
provided. 
However, MYJAR didnt  accept the adjudicators findings. It said it carried  out detailed 
checks on each occasion before agreeing to lend. 
As no agreement could be reached  the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to figure out 
whether Mr B could  repay the loans in a sustainable  manner.  
Ref: DRN46203132These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
So MYJAR was required  to establish whether Mr B could  sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  Mr B could 
sustainably make his repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate  that MYJAR has provided 
us with a detailed account of the checks that it carried out before it approved these loans, 
which may have shown that they were affordable. However, by the point of loan 5 I no longer 
think, for the reasons Ive outlined below that it shouldve  continued  to lend to Mr B.
As our adjudicator explained, he thought proportionate checks  had been carried out before 
loans 1  4, and so MYJAR wasnt wrong  to have provided these loans. 
However, unlike  the adjudicator, I think that by loan 4 I think  MYJAR may have wanted to 
carry out further checks. Mr B was showing signs that he had to return  to MYJAR  fairly  
quickly for new loans  after previous  loans  had been repaid and generally his loan amounts 
were increasing. This would suggest that Mr B may have  been needing to return for further  
borrowing as making the loan repayment was leaving a whole in his finances.  
So for loan 4, I think MYJAR  shouldve carried out a full review of Mr Bs financial position, 
which ought to have included asking to verify  some  of the information  he had provided.  
Mr B has now provided us with a copy of his bank statements  in the period  leading up to 
loan 4 being provided. So Ive looked at the statements to see whether, if MYJAR had 
carried out further checks it wouldve thought that it shouldnt have provided this loan. 
MYJAR wouldve most likely seen that Mr B had recently repaid one other  short term lender 
and was making use of an open  ended credit facility.  It also wouldve seen his income  and 
Ref: DRN46203133that he had a number of regular repayments for house hold bills. But based on what  Ive 
seen including  the recently repaid short term loan with another  lender this wouldve been 
sufficient for MYJAR to have declined Mr Bs application  for his fourth loan. 
So, although  the checks MYJAR carried out may not have been proportionate for all of the 
first four loans. I think even if further,  more  in-depth checks wouldve  been carried  out by 
MYJAR it still wouldve  agreed to have  provided Mr B with the first 4 loans. 
However, having looked at the overall pattern of MYJARs lending history with Mr B, I also 
think that it should reasonably have seen that Mr B was unlikely to have been able to make  
his loan repayments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan 5. I say this 
because:
by this stage, Mr B was into his seventh month of owing MYJAR money. In my view, 
Mr Bs loan history up until this point was in itself a clear demonstration of his inability 
to settle his loans over the life of the credit  agreement.
Mr B continued to be provided  with new loans shortly after having  repaid previous 
ones. And the amounts he was borrowing were  generally increasing. So MYJAR 
ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Mr B was having to borrow  further 
to cover the hole the repayment  of his previous loans left in his finances and that 
Mr Bs indebtedness wasnt decreasing and so the loans were unsustainable.  
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads into what he owed  MYJAR  and his 
indebtedness was being prolonged for an extended  period of time. Loan 10 was 
provided more 11 months after Mr Bs first loan. And it was for more than nine times 
the value of the first loan. This meant  that Mr B paid large amounts  of interest to, in 
effect; service a debt to MYJAR over an extended period.
So, I think that Mr B lost out because MYJAR  provided loans 5 - 10 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time; 
and
the number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Mr Bs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im partly upholding Mr Bs complaint and MYJAR should put things right as set out 
below.
Ref: DRN46203134putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
It isnt clear from the information  MYJAR has given us as to whether the outstanding balance  
due on the final loan has been  transferred to a third party. If it has, then MYJAR if it can 
should buy the loan back. If MYJAR  isnt able to buy the loan back  than it needs  to work with 
the third party  to make sure the following is achieved: 
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans 5 to 9;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
rework loan 10 applying all payments made  by Mr B as if they went towards  the 
principal amount borrowed. But importantly,  MYJAR needs to make  sure that it 
collects no more than the principal sum lent. 
If and when the amount Mr B has paid exceeds the amount he was lent, any further 
amounts paid should be treated as overpayments. Any overpayments  that may have 
been made should be refunded to Mr B with 8% simple  interest  from the date the 
overpayment was made to the date of settlement ;
If after reworking loan 10 Mr B still has an outstanding principal sum that MYJAR can 
use the refund from loans 5  9 to offset  this balance. If there is any refund left over 
than this should be paid directly to Mr B. 
remove all entries about  loans 5 - 10 from Mr Bs credit file. The period of time Mr B 
owed MYJAR money means that any information still recorded about  these  loans is 
adverse.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr B still has an outstanding  balance due on loan 10 then it should 
try and work  together  to come to a mutually  agreeable  repayment  plan in order to repay what  
is owed. But Id remind MJYAR of its obligation  to treat Mr B positively and sympathetically. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Mr Bs complaint. 
MYJAR Limited should put things right for Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4620313