K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in
1999. Ms A says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
In my provisional decision sent in July 2019 I explained that I dont think  this complaint  
should be upheld.  I said:
FICL had to make Ms A aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  I cant be certain  what was said at the time Ms A applied for her card 
and PPI but FICL has provided us with a copy of the available  paperwork. The application 
form Ms A completed when she applied for her card had a separate  section  for PPI that Ms 
A has signed separately to signing in agreement with the card itself. The section stated  only  
sign this box if you require  account cover and Ms A didnt have to sign this section to apply  
for the card. So with this in mind I think FICL made  it clear that Ms A didnt have to take out 
the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may not 
remember this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms A so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Ms A got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms A about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. Ms A has told us she was working less than 16 hours per week when  she applied for 
the policy. This would  have meant  she was unable  to claim all the benefits  the policy 
provided. But FICL has shown that when Ms A completed a form with them  she said she 
worked 16 hours per week. And when we have asked  Ms A for further  details about  her 
employment we havent received any further  evidence  of the hours  she worked. So Im 
unable to be certain what hours Ms A actually worked at the time.
Ms A has also told us she was entitled to sick pay and could have relied  on her family for 
support if she was unable to make her repayments.  But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to Ms As sick pay, and for longer than she would have received full pay. And while
Ms As family would  have wanted to help, their ability  to would have been  dependant  on their 
circumstances at the time, which could have changed. So I dont think  this offer of help could 
be guaranteed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Ms As circumstances at the time Im unable to say she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
I gave Ms A and FICL time to respond  to my provisional decision, but neither side responded. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. But as neither side responded with anything  further  for me to 
consider I see no reason  to come to a different decision to that explained above.
Ref: DRN49291612my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4929161