K822xcomplaint
Mrs C complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (trading as Post Office  Financial  Services)  
didnt provide information to her in a timely  way.
background 
Mrs C asked Bank of Ireland for some  information  she needed in a matrimonial mediation. 
She says that as it wasnt provided in time she lost out financially in the mediation in the 
amount of over £8,472. And she wants Bank  of Ireland to compensate  her for this.
Bank of Ireland  says the evidence it has suggests  Mrs C took medical advice which 
encouraged her to reach a compromise  on the date of the mediation rather  than taking 
things to court. Although Bank of Ireland played a part in the documentation being delayed  
the decision not to continue was down to Mrs Cs longstanding health issues. Its accepted  
its service was poor and has offered to pay her £300  compensation for the trouble and upset 
shes been caused by the delays and any out of pocket expenses  incurred. 
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be upheld. In summary he said:
Mrs C asked for information about the operation of a joint account four months  before 
the mediation date.  She made Bank  of Ireland aware of why and when she wanted it. 
Despite this it didnt  provide  the information  needed until shortly after the mediation 
date had taken  place. This wasnt timely  and was poor service.  
Bank of Ireland  doesnt dispute  it made  some  errors and its offered to pay £300 
compensation for its poor service.  He cant say what the financial implications 
wouldve been if the requested paperwork had been available  in time for the 
mediation. But there was a considerable delay in Bank  of Scotland dealing with Mrs 
Cs request and she had to contact it a number of times. Not having the information 
wouldve also been frustrating for her. 
Mrs C has been caused  distress and inconvenience. Because of this Bank of Ireland  
should increase  its offer of compensation  by £200 to a total of £500.
Bank of Ireland  has agreed to pay the extra £200  compensation.
Mrs C doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  In summary she says this 
isnt enough compensation and whats happened has affected  her health.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Ireland  couldve dealt with Mrs Cs requests for information  better. Mrs C made clear 
to it why she needed the information and by when.  Despite this it appears  most of what she 
asked for wasnt provided until a week or so after the mediation hearing  had taken place. 
That was unfortunate and no doubt  frustrating for Mrs C.
Even so it isnt clear  what effect, if any, this information wouldve had on the mediation 
outcome even if it had been available in time. As Mrs Cs solicitor has said some  of the 
Ref: DRN44989272information sought mightve strengthened  Mrs Cs case and would at least  have enabled 
them to establish  whether  the documentation  supported her case.
Mrs C has said that as a result of the delay in providing the requested  information  she lost 
out on some  £8,472 in the mediation.  But Im afraid theres nothing  to support this or suggest 
any such loss was a result of what Bank of Ireland did. As Mrs Cs solicitor has said her 
claim settled  at mediation via negotiation of a global  settlement which  reflected the risk she 
faced if the matter was litigated.
Consequently I dont think its been shown  on balance  that Bank of Ireland  can fairly be held 
responsible for a loss of £8,472 or that I can fairly ask it to reimburse this or any amount to 
Mrs C.
But its clear Bank of Ireland has caused Mrs C some additional and unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience  at a time that was already  difficult and stressful for her. That may well 
have also had some  effect  on her ongoing health.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think that this 
warrants an award of a total of £500 compensation. I note Bank  of Ireland has already 
agreed to pay this amount. And I dont think I can reasonably require it to pay any more as 
Mrs C would like.
Overall although  I recognise  Mrs Cs strength of feeling and frustration,  I think  the 
adjudicators proposed  resolution of this matter is fair and reasonable. And I dont see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (trading as Post Office 
Financial Services) should, if it hasnt done  so already, pay Mrs C a total of £500 
compensation.
Bank of Ireland  must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it 
Mrs C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Bank of Ireland considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give her a 
tax deduction  certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4498927