K820x#14complaint
Mr M had a Contract for Difference (CFD) trading account with Fortrade Limited. He 
complains that a number  of trades  were unfairly closed causing him a financial loss. 
background
In June 2017 Mr M had a CFD trading account  with Fortrade Limited. He was trading CFDs 
on crude oil and several long and short positions  open. Three long positions  were closed 
due to insufficient margin on the account,  and he sent several  emails  to Fortrade towards  the 
end of June enquiring about what he could do. He was told to transfer around £14,000 in 
order for his trades to be re-opened. 
There were some further email exchanges around  when his trades  would be reopened, and 
eventually the trades  were restored in July 2017. However, by that stage the price had risen 
above the level at which the trades  had been closed in June 2017. This meant  that he 
missed out on the rise in price,  and therefore  the profit he wouldve had. Mr M then closed 
his trades  on the evening  of 31 July 2017  at a significant profit. 
Mr M complained. In short, he argued  that Fortrade had prevented him from trading in 
June 2017 and therefore prevented him from profiting. Fortrade didnt agree. It said it had 
investigated his complaint  and confirmed that his account wasnt blocked at any stage, and 
he could have opened or closed trades  when he wanted to. 
So Mr M brought his complaint to this service. He explained that in July 2017 he had three 
open CFD positions  with two lots. He was told he needed to add £10,000 cash  to his 
account or his trades would be closed  so he duly added the required cash. He said that at 
the same  time Fortrades website explained  that where an account fell into margin  deficit, it 
wouldnt automatically close out all trades.  Mr M said that instead, this is what  happened  to 
his account and all his trades  were closed. He said that if Fortrade  had only closed enough  
trades to free up his available margin, his existing  open trades wouldve become profitable 
because shortly after the price of oil began to go up. 
Fortrade disagreed  with Mr Ms version of events. It said that the trades Mr M was referring  
to had originally  been closed in June 2017 due to insufficient margin. It said that following 
several emails between Mr M and Fortrade,  it had agreed to restore  those trades in July 
2017. However, it was Mr M himself  who closed the trades in July at a profit. It confirmed 
that Mr Ms account was still open and he could trade if he wanted to. 
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Ms complaint, but didnt think  Fortrade had done 
anything wrong. He considered Fortrades comments, and the evidence  it had provided,  
which showed that Mr M had in fact closed the trades himself in July 2017. 
In response to the adjudicator, Mr M disagreed  with Fortrades version of events. He 
maintained that the transactions werent in fact closed by himself  nor his computer. He said 
someone from Fortrade had closed  those trades  without his permission.  
Fortrade said that it had checked the IP address of the three disputed trades, and concluded 
that they all originated from the same country where  Mr M was based.  It also explained that 
one of the trades was placed  from the same device which had been used throughout the 
day. It confirmed that it had no representatives  in the particular country  Mr M was based in, 
Ref: DRN49935132which meant that it couldnt have been  one of its employees that had closed the trades Mr M 
was complaining about. 
Mr M made several  submissions. In short, he said:
Fortrades terms say that it doesnt offer investment consulting, but this is what it did 
in relation to him. Mr M said he supplied emails  in support of this and while he didnt 
have call recordings, the sheer  volume  of calls ought to be seen as evidence  that 
Fortrade was providing investment  consulting. 
He didnt activate  the stop/out in June 2017  and this was the trade he was disputing. 
As Fortrade had accessed his account  without authorization, it should be responsible 
for his losses. 
He never  gave Fortrade  permission to trade on his account. 
He asked for information  on his account (log of transactions for June and July 2017  
and the status  of funds which were in his account, but Fortrade refused to provide 
this information.  
When the oil prices  dropped, he acknowledged that he lost money.  But he said that 
once the prices began to increase, Fortrade  stopped him from trading or making  a 
profit. He said that he had sufficient funds in his account to keep trading, and he paid 
additional money in at the time. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive read and carefully considered the detailed submissions Mr M has made in support of his 
complaint. I understand that he feels very strongly  that Fortrade hasnt treated him fairly, and 
he believes  he is entitled to compensation. I hope he doesnt  take it as a discourtesy, 
however, if I dont reply  to each and every point he has raised.  The purpose of my decision 
is to focus on the key issues, and explain my reasoning. 
And in Mr Ms case, I think the key issue is what is quite possibly a misunderstanding 
between Mr M and the trader he was communicating  with in June 2017. 
I should say firstly that the evidence Ive seen is clear that it was Mr M himself  who chose to 
close the three long CFDs  on 31 July 2017.  The evidence provided  by Fortrade shows IP 
addresses which are located  where Mr M is located, and Im persuaded by Fortrades  
submissions that it doesnt have  offices  located  there. In addition, its unclear to me why 
Fortrade would  deliberately close Mr Ms profitable  trades. 
The second  issue,  therefore, is whether or not Mr M was prevented from trading between 
June 2017 and July 2017 when three  trades in question were restored. 
Ive seen several email  exchanges between Mr M and Fortrade during the time in question, 
and I think its clear  that there were a number of discussions about the price of oil and 
likelihood of whether the price his trades had been closed at was low enough to consider re-
opening his trades,  or whether it was worth waiting  for a rebound in the price. 
Ref: DRN49935133Having read these emails,  I dont  agree  Mr M was being advised. In the first of these emails,  
Mr M was simply told that he had insufficient  margin to open the trades  he wanted to, 
because he would be unable  to sustain any movement against  him in the price of oil before 
his trades  would be closed again  due to insufficient margin. So he was given a figure of how 
much cash  he needed  to put into his account  before he could reopen his trades. I 
understand Mr M transferred this towards  the end of June  and then emailed Fortrade. At this 
point the price of oil had already begun to rise, so Mr M had likely already missed  out on 
some profit as a result.  
In any event, at this point,  Mr M could  trade  (as he had done for a considerable amount of 
time) himself  he didnt need  to keep going back to Fortrade  to ask it to call him. Im not 
persuaded Mr M was led to believe, at any stage,  that his account was blocked  or that he 
was unable to trade.  And Ive seen no evidence  that Mr M attempted to trade  on his account,  
or open trades before July when the trades  in question were restored. I dont doubt that 
Mr M might have  misunderstood the status of his account or his ability to trade  but I dont 
consider that this was Fortrades  fault. 
The crux of Mr Ms complaint therefore is that between June 2017 and July 2017  when the 
price of oil rose, he lost out on that rise. Whilst I can understand how disappointing  this was, 
on the basis that he didnt consider he could trade, Im not satisfied Fortrade  should cover  
that loss of profit, or that it did anything to deliberately stop him from trading. 
I appreciate my findings will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr M, but I hope he 
can understand my reasons. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M isnt obliged to accept  my final 
decision, and if he doesnt do so, hell be entitled to pursue Fortrade  Limited through other 
avenues should  he wish to do so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4993513