K822xcomplaint
Mr S has complained about the service he received from AXA Insurance  UK Plc following a 
claim on his motor insurance policy. 
background 
In November 2016 Mr S was stationary  in his car when  it was hit by a motorcycle. AXA 
arranged repairs to his car and looked to recover the costs from the motorcyclists insurer.  
However both the motorcyclist and Mr S said each other were to blame for the accident. In 
May 2018 the case went court and Mr S was found not to be at fault. AXA said it closed the 
claim as non-fault  and reinstated his no claims discount (NCD). 
Mr S complained to AXA. He said it hadnt  updated him throughout the claim and he had to 
chase it. He thought he was the only one trying  to defend his version  of what happened.  
AXA agreed it hadnt dealt with things  as well as it would have liked and paid him £100  
compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
Mr S remained unhappy  and brought his complaint to our service. He said his premium had 
increased at renewal due to the length  of time the claim was open  for and because his NCD 
was reduced.  AXA said it had recalculated Mr Ss premium  once  it had been  closed  on its 
system as a non-fault  claim  and reinstated his NCD.  
Mr S didnt think hed had any refund. AXA said Mr S had changed the car on his policy  
which had increased  his premium and then cancelled  it. It said when it recalculated his 
premium it did this by readjusting some his future payments and by removing some of the 
arrears on his account. Mr S also said that the claim was showing as fault on the Claims 
and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) which is a shared  database used by insurers  and this 
was causing him problems  trying to buy insurance elsewhere. 
AXA said its system  had recorded  the claim correctly and it had contacted CUE to update 
the record. But it didnt  think it was to blame  that CUE hadnt updated more quickly. However 
AXA agreed it could  have handled  the claim better and agreed to pay Mr S and additional 
£350 compensation. While our investigator was looking into Mr Ss complaint AXA also 
offered a further  £100 compensation to make  a total of £550.
Our investigator thought the initial £450  was enough  for AXA to compensate  Mr S. He said 
AXA had caused  some delays and hadnt kept Mr S updated during the claim. But he 
thought AXA had shown that it had appropriately  recalculated Mr Ss premium following the 
court ruling. He said Mr S could also choose  to accept the additional  £100  if he wanted to. 
Mr S didnt agree and asked for further  compensation.  As our investigator didnt recommend 
further compensation Mr S asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im satisfied £550 is a fair 
and reasonable amount of compensation for AXA to pay Mr S for his distress  and 
inconvenience. 
claim handling
Ref: DRN48428652I dont find it unusual for a claim where both parties  hold the other at fault to take some time 
to resolve, especially where the matter goes to court. So Ive considered  whether AXA 
caused any additional delays to this process. I can see the motorcyclists insurer  contacted 
AXA in January and February  2017 to say they hadnt received information theyd requested,  
so I think its likely AXA caused some  delay by not responding. I can see that AXA worked 
on the claim over the following months but seemed to have all the information it needed by 
the end of August 2017. Mr S called AXA twice in the next few months for an update  but a 
court date wasnt set until the end of January 2018. 
Each time Mr S called  he was told the claim was being reviewed. But given AXA had all the 
information it needed I think it could have done  this more quickly. I think its likely  AXA 
caused some delay here. I can also see that AXA didnt keep Mr S updated  and he had to 
chase to find out what was happening.  
I can understand why Mr S felt that he was the only one trying to show  his version of events 
was correct but Im satisfied AXA supported  Mr S appropriately by obtaining expert reports 
and taking the case to court. However  I agree that AXA caused some  delays  and didnt keep 
Mr S updated and I think its fair and reasonable it compensates  him for that. 
premium increase
I can see that Mr S had to pay an increased premium because  he had an open claim on his 
policy and reduced  NCD. As the matter went to court  I think  its unlikely it would have been 
resolved before Mr Ss renewal in September 2017 even without any additional delays. So I 
dont think AXAs at fault for the claim being open  at that point.  But I do think  its fair for AXA 
to have recalculated  his renewal premium based  on his claim being non-fault.  
AXA said Mr S changed  the car on his policy a few months after it renewed and that meant 
his premium increased by £540.60. It said when the claim closed as non-fault his premium  
reduced by £401.61.
As Mr S was paying  in instalments and had arrears  on his account AXA didnt give him a 
cash refund. I can see from screenshots AXAs provided it used  £220.02 to clear Mr Ss 
arrears and reduced his future payments by £181.59. 
AXA said the policy didnt  run for the full year as it was cancelled due to Mr S not paying his 
premium. So the £209.78  refund that would have been due to Mr S in July 2018 when the 
policy cancelled was used  to clear some  of the arrears on his account. I understand Mr S 
has paid the remaining premium to bring  the account up to date. Having considered the 
information AXAs provided Im satisfied it recalculated Mr Ss premium  after closing his 
claim following the court ruling. 
CUE
AXA said it updated its own records as soon as it had confirmation  that Mr S wasnt at fault. I 
can see AXA contacted  CUE to ask for this to be amended when it found out it hadnt 
automatically updated. Im satisfied  AXA did what it could to make sure the record  was 
amended and I dont  think  its AXAs fault it took a while once it had made  the request. I 
understand CUE has now updated to reflect the claim  correctly. 
Ref: DRN48428653Mr S has clearly  not received the service hed expect from AXA and hes also experienced 
difficulties outside  of AXAs control, such as CUE  not immediately  updating. I accept hes 
experienced distress  and inconvenience as a result  of how AXAs dealt with the claim as 
hes had to chase  to find out whats been going  on and hes had the worry of whats going to 
happen going on longer  than it should have  done. So I think it should compensate him for 
that. 
I recognise Mr Ss strength of feeling  about whats happened and why he feels AXA should 
pay him more than £550. But when  considering  other awards our service makes  for cases of 
similar seriousness Im satisfied the £550  AXA has now offered is a fair and reasonable 
amount to put things right. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to pay   
Mr S £550  (minus anything its already paid him) to compensate for his distress and 
inconvenience.
AXA should  pay this within  28 days  of us telling it Mr Ss accepted  my final decision. If it 
pays later than this it should  add interest to any outstanding amount at 8% simple per year 
from the date of the decision to the date it makes payment.1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
1 If AXA considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN4842865