K820x#14complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation)  didnt update  his account 
details for an incoming direct debit,  resulting  in a missed payment, charges, and a record on 
his credit file. Hes also unhappy with the way this matter was dealt with. 
background
Mr L has a loan with Creation  which  he repays monthly. Mr L told us that he changed his 
bank account  so no longer used the one that his direct debits were being  paid from. He said 
that all his direct debits were moved  across to his new bank account through a switching 
process, including the one with Creation. 
Creation said it had received notice that the direct debit had been cancelled  but hadnt  
received any amendment details. This information  didnt reach it until 9 January 2019, which 
was after the payment  had fallen due and after Mr L had been sent a text to notify him of the 
arrears on his account. So a payment was missed.  As per the terms and conditions  of the 
loan agreement, Creation applied a charge of £30 and it was noted on Mr Ls credit file.
After Creation notified Mr L of the situation, the account was brought up to date. Because it 
acknowledged Mr Ls intention to pay, Creation removed the charge and amended  the credit 
file. 
Mr L is unhappy with a phone conversation he had with Creation about  this matter. He feels  
as though he was treated like a criminal, thinks Creation needs  to take responsibility for what 
happened, and was unhappy with its attitude towards him. As well as the £30 charge being  
removed and credit file amended, which have both already  happened, hes asked  for 
compensation for the stress caused.
Our investigator considered this complaint. He didnt  think  Creation needed to do anything 
further. But Mr L disagreed. He said this was the only direct debit that hadnt transferred 
properly. So the complaint  has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know it will come as a disappointment  to Mr L, I dont uphold his complaint  Ill 
explain why. 
Ive seen evidence  from Creation that the direct debit with the original  account  details was 
cancelled. But I havent seen information  to suggest that the new details were provided to it 
but that it had failed  to update its systems  correctly. 
As Creation hadnt received payment by the due date,  Creation charged £30  which is in 
line with the terms  and conditions of the agreement  and said it would be noted on the 
credit file, which it was also allowed to do.
Creation has provided our service with a copy  of the phone call in which  this matter was 
discussed. I note that, within this, Mr L referred  to three  other businesses  where  there had 
been issues with the direct  debits being  switched. So this also doesnt seem to be an issue  
Ref: DRN45438962which only affected the payment to Creation. But, Creation, as a gesture of goodwill, 
removed the charge  and amended the credit file as it recognised Mr Ls intention to pay. 
Given that I cant see that Creation has made  an error, I dont think it would be fair to ask it 
to do anything further here. 
I also note that Mr L was unhappy  with the way he was spoken to in the phone  call. Having 
listened to it in full, Im satisfied with the way in which  the adviser spoke. I didnt find her tone 
to be inappropriate, nor do I think there was anything untoward about what she actually said 
to Mr L. 
So, overall, I cant safely say that Creation has done anything  wrong  here and I wont be 
asking it to do anything  further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr L to accept or reject 
my decision  before 20 December 2019.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4543896