K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Portafina LLP (Portafina) is responsible for the transfer  of his pension in 2011 
from a Stakeholder  Pension (SP) to a Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP) and for the 
unsuitable investment  of the SIPP that followed.
background
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and concluded that the complaint should be 
upheld. In the main, she noted as follows:
Mr B was contacted  by an unregulated  introducer and was thereafter  referred  to 
Portafina. This related to the prospect of land and oil investments. The transfer  was 
done in order  to facilitate the investments. The SP was worth  around £28,000 at the 
time. Mr B says the advice he received from Portafina took place  over the phone,  that 
it was unsuitable  because the investments were  too risky for him; because he did not 
have the capacity to lose his only pension  provision; because he was a novice 
investor; and because he had no other savings at the time. Portafina says it did not 
advise Mr B and it provided him with an execution only service for the transfer.
At the time of the transfer Mr Bs profile  was as follows   he was 54 years  old and 
planned to retire at age 65; he was employed  with an annual salary of £25,000  and 
had been previously self-employed; he had an outstanding mortgage  of £60,000 and 
other outstanding  debts;  and he had an objective for steady growth and the 
avoidance of expensive charges.
Mr B did not have a large amount of investment experience, he would not have been 
able to embark on the complex  investment  transactions  without advice and there 
appears to be no reason,  other than the introduction, why he pursued  the transfer 
and investment.
The execution only declaration that has been  shared by Portafina is unreliable as it is 
not on headed paper, it is not signed, and it is not dated.
Overall, Mr B does not appear to have  been  a genuine execution only client  and 
Portafina ought to have  advised him on the underlying investments  but did not.
Unfortunately the ceding SP provider was unable  to provide details about the SP, but 
based on available information it is unlikely he was a high or medium risk investor 
and he was probably a low risk investor; the SP was unlikely  to have held high risk 
investments; there is no evidence that his objective could not have been achieved 
within the SP at no extra charge; that stood  in contrast to the transfer fees,  annual  
fees, ongoing management  fees and fund fees which would likely have been 
associated with the SIPP transfer.
The regulator required  that firms advising  on transfers into SIPPs could  not separate  
that from advising on the suitability of the underlying  investment. The land and oil 
investments were unconventional and high risk, they were  unsuitable for Mr B, his 
low risk profile and his circumstances. If Portafina had advised him against  the 
transfer and underlying investment  he is likely to have followed such  advice  there 
does not appear  to be evidence  to the contrary. Mr B should be compensated in his 
complaint. 
Mr B accepted this outcome, but Portafina disputed it. Portafina  mainly said:
Its execution only service  to Mr B was genuine,  the investigators  conclusion to the 
contrary is wrong. It also conflicts  with another adjudication from this service  in a 
comparable case involving Portafina   where  the conclusion was that its execution 
Ref: DRN42509202only service was genuine. Portafina  neither promoted nor advised the land and oil 
investments in Mr Bs case.
The unsigned and undated execution only document  should  be viewed in the context 
of the SIPP  application  form Mr B signed  and dated.  The form confirmed that he was 
aware of his responsibility for the decision to invest in the underlying  investments and 
for their management. 
Given that Mr B was an execution only client responsibility for the suitability  of the 
transfer and underlying investments  did not apply  to Portafina. The regulators rules, 
at COBS 10, support this position.
For the above reasons, Portafina  disputes  the complaint  and the investigators 
findings, and it rejects any liability for the redress proposed by the investigator.
The investigators view did not change,  she retained  her findings and she addressed  
Portafinas points  as follows:
Its reference to the SIPP application  form does not provide evidence  on whether (or 
not) the alleged  execution only service was genuine; it would have been completed 
regardless of whether the transfer was advised  or not.
It has not explained why its execution only declaration was not signed by Mr B or the 
absence of any instruction(s) from him on which the alleged execution  only service  
would have needed to be based.  
The adjudication with which it has compared Mr Bs complaint bears differences  and 
the notion that it conducted execution only transactions for other clients does not 
automatically mean it did so for Mr B.
One of our case reviewers subsequently  highlighted fact-finding documentation completed  
by Portafina at the time of the transfer.  He concluded that this supports the finding that the 
execution only service  was not genuine, as fact finding would not usually be required for 
such a service. Portafina disagreed and said the fact finding was a routine exercise,  but the 
service remained an execution only one. The case reviewer  also revised the redress  
benchmark that had initially been  proposed,  he noted evidence received  from the SP 
provider showing that the SP had been invested in a profile higher than the low risk profile 
the investigator had considered, but lower than the high-risk  profile  of the land and oil 
investments.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I too have concluded 
that the complaint should be upheld  and I uphold it. I endorse  and incorporate  into this 
decision the investigators substantive findings on the unsuitability  of the transfer  and of the 
underlying land and oil investments; I do the same  with regards  to the case reviewers  
revision to the benchmark for redress.
Execution Only Service
I have considered Portafinas dispute over the idea that its execution only service to Mr B 
was not genuine. I too am persuaded by the fact-finding evidence  that has been cited  by the 
case reviewer, by the lack of evidence to support Portafinas claim and the lack of evidence  
to show the instructions on which any such  execution only service was based.  
Ref: DRN42509203There is more evidence  to suggest a referral,  by the introducer, of Mr B to Portafina; 
Portafinas completion of its introduced investment fact-finding document  for him and for the 
transfer; and Portafinas  service  to him thereafter in pursuit of the transfer. The fact-finding  
document is reasonably detailed  covering Mr Bs personal and financial circumstances; his 
objectives; his capacity for loss; future  retirement  concerns; and his risk profile.  
Irrespective of what Portafina has done in terms of fact-finding for other clients  and its 
claim that such was done on an execution only basis   in Mr Bs case  I am not persuaded 
that the fact-finding was a neutral and non-indicative matter. In the wider circumstances of 
the case  including the absence of evidence of an agreement (the unsigned undertaking 
document) between  the parties for an execution  only service  I consider  that it indicated  
something other than an execution only service. There is even reference within the 
document to Mr B keeping the underlying investment  property for income   which  also 
indicates that the underlying investment(s) was discussed with Portafina.
Overall and on balance,  the conclusion that arises is that Portafinas claim about  the 
execution only service  has not been established.  Instead it appears, on available  evidence,  
to be unlikely and it is more likely (than  not) that it advised Mr B on the transfer over the 
telephone as he has asserted  hence  the absence of advice related documentation. 
Regulatory Context
The regulators industry alert in 2013  included  the following:
It began  with this statement   It has been brought  to the FSAs attention  that some  
financial advisers are giving advice to customers  on pension  transfers  or pension 
switches without assessing  the advantages or disadvantages of investments 
proposed to be held within the new pension. 
It continued to include   The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires  consideration of the other  investments held by the customer  or, 
when advice is given  on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products 
(such as SIPPs and other  wrappers),  consideration of the suitability of the overall  
proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in 
unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where  
a customer seeks advice  on a pension transfer  in implementing  a wider  investment 
strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall 
investment strategy the customer is contemplating.; and  if you give regulated  
advice and the recommendation will enable  investment in unregulated items you 
cannot separate out the unregulated  elements from the regulated elements. [my 
emphasis]
The regulator reinforced its views in a further alert in April 2014  and said;
We believe  pension transfers or switches to SIPPs intended to hold non-mainstream 
propositions are unlikely  to be suitable options  for the vast majority of retail customers. Firms  
operating in this market  need to be particularly careful  to ensure their advice is suitable.
Where  a financial adviser recommends a SIPP  knowing that the customer  will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement  to release funds to invest  through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
Ref: DRN42509204customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
If a firm does  not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch  at all as it will 
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
The regulators clients best interests  rule (COBS 2), as it was in 2011 and as it remains  to 
date, required Portafina to act  honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client. Portafinas  fact finding exercise appears to have captured  what  it 
needed to know  about his overall investor  profile  and evidence  suggests that it was, or ought  
reasonably to have  been, aware of the underlying investment(s) intended for the SIPP  after 
the transfer. 
The views expressed by the regulator  in 2013 (and then in 2014) post-dated the transfer and 
investments in Mr Bs case, however the regulators views did not create new rules  in those 
years. They  reflected pre-existing rules that were  in place in 2011,  and the implication arising 
from those pre-existing rules  under COBS 2 and the duty to advice on suitability  under  
COBS 9  was that Portafina was obliged to do as the 2013  and 2014  alerts reflected. As I 
concluded above, it is more likely (than  not) that Portafina advised Mr B on the transfer. In 
doing so, it was obliged to advise  him on the underlying land and oil investments  but it did 
not.
Evidence from the fact-find  document and from the SP provider shows that Mr B had a 
broadly medium risk profile; that he had a modest  level of income; that he had ongoing 
mortgage and debt liabilities;  that he had only a little experience in stock market  and/or 
property investments; and that he struggled  with his savings and had a low capacity for loss. 
In this context, the non-standard, high risk and unregulated oil and land investments were  
unsuitable for him. He appears to have invested  the only personal pension fund (the SIPP) 
that he had into these and there is no evidence of any advice to him at the time drawing his 
attention to the gravity of that step and to the potential risk of losing his pension. In the 
aftermath, evidence suggests that the oil investment was worth £1 by 2017 and that the land 
investment is illiquid.
If Portafina had assessed  suitability of the underlying investments for the transfer  and had 
done so properly  it would have  concluded  that they were unsuitable because they 
mismatched his investment experience, his capacity  for loss and his risk profile. It could  not 
have reasonably ignored this knowledge within the context of acting honestly,  fairly and 
professionally in Mr Bs best interest. There is also evidence that suggests,  on balance,  that 
Mr Bs objectives could have been met in the SP and without cause  for a transfer to a SIPP 
 and the probable associated costs cited by the investigator.  In this respect, the transfer  
itself was also unsuitable.
There is not enough evidence to show that Mr B was insistent upon investing  in the land and 
oil funds. On balance,  I am not persuaded that he was. In addition, evidence does not 
suggest that his position  to invest in them was concluded and/or unyielding  before  
Portafinas involvement. I consider that he would  have  given  considerable notice to advice 
from Portafina telling him about the mismatch  between the investments and his risk profile, 
his level of investment  experience and his capacity for loss. He would also have probably  
taken notice of advice about  the risk of losing all of his pension in such  investments. Overall  
and on balance, I conclude that if Mr B was advised  not to proceed  with the transfer and the 
underlying investments he would not have  done so.
Ref: DRN42509205For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr B as close as possible to the position he would now be in if he had been 
given suitable  advice. On balance, I consider that Mr B would have behaved differently if he 
was advised not to proceed with the SIPP transfer  and the underlying investments. 
It is not possible to say precisely what he would have done, but I am satisfied that what I 
have set out below is fair and reasonable given his circumstances and objectives at the time 
of advice.
what must  Portafina do?
Compare the performance of Mr Bs SIPP with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value the difference  must be paid 
to Mr B in compensation. If the actual value  is greater  than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Pay any interest set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If 
Portafina is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the 
interest, it must tell Mr B the deduction  amount and give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, for him to reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Pay the compensation  into Mr Bs pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest.  The payment should allow  for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  The compensation should  not be 
paid into his pension  plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or 
allowance. If the compensation (and interest) cannot be paid into his pension plan, 
pay it directly to him. Had it been possible to pay it into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income,  so the compensation should  be reduced to notionally  
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been  paid. The notional  
allowance should be calculated using his actual or expected marginal rate of tax at 
his selected retirement age. For example, if he is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  
at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic  rate of 
tax. If he would  have  been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should 
be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Provide the calculation of the compensation to Mr B in a clear and simple  format.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to     
(end date)additional 
interest
Mr Bs 
Lifetime (or Hartley) SIPP
still 
existsFTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total  
Return  Index 
(prior to 1 date of 
transfer to 
the 
Lifetime  
SIPPdate of 
settlementnot applicable
Ref: DRN42509206March 2017, 
the FTSE 
WMA  Stock 
Market Income 
Total Return 
Index)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment (or any part(s)  of it) is illiquid  the actual value of the investment (or its 
illiquid part(s)) should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr B agrees to Portafina 
taking ownership  of the investment (or its illiquid part(s)), if it wishes to. If that is not possible 
then Portafina  may request an undertaking from Mr B that he repay to Portafina any amount 
he may receive from the investment  (or its illiquid  part(s)) in future. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted  from the 
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the calculation  
from that point on. If there are a large  number of regular payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, I will accept  if Portafina  totals  all those payments and deducts that figure at the end 
instead of deducting  periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Mr B appears to have  had a balanced/medium investor profile   based on the 
evidence addressed above   so he would have been prepared to take some risk in 
order to achieve  a higher return.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a 
range of indices  with different asset  classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. It is a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take 
some risk to get a higher  return.
I consider that Mr Bs profile  is broadly reflected in this benchmark  and that 
compensation based upon it would reasonably reflect the sort of return he 
could have obtained, but for the unsuitable advice he received, from suitable  
investments.
compensation limit
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred  and when  the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds  the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance.  Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely  that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such  balance. A complainant 
Ref: DRN42509207may therefore want to consider getting  independent  legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept  the decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I order Portafina LLP to 
compensate him as set out above  and to provide him with the calculation  of compensation in 
a clear and simple format.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2021.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4250920