K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should accept responsibility for 
the complaint.  To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller  in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs W took out with a hire purchase agreement in 
March 2000. It was added to her account  when she applied  for the hire purchase  in 
store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
I think FICL  made  Mrs W aware  of the policy, that she had a choice about  buying the PPI, 
and that she chose to take it. I say this because  FICL has given us a copy of the hire 
purchase credit agreement form from the time of sale. This shows there was a separate 
section for PPI headed payment protection insurance application  and Mrs W has signed to 
take it. So I think this reflected  what she wanted.  Had Mrs W not wanted the PPI she could 
have completed the application without signing in the separate  section to take the PPI.
Ive also borne in mind  the sale took place nearly  20 years ago so I dont find it surprising 
that Mrs W cannot  recall all the details. On balance,  I think Mrs W was aware of the 
policy, that it was optional  and she agreed  to take it out, knowing it was something  she 
didn't have to have.  
Mrs W says she was advised to take the policy but Ive seen nothing  to suggest FICL 
assessed Mrs Ws individual needs, such as her employee benefits and made a formal 
recommendation for PPI, so I think its unlikely that it did. This meant it didn't have to 
check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs W got the information she 
needed to decide if it was right for her.
Mrs W says she wasnt  given enough  information  about the policy  at the time of the sale and 
if she had been,  she wouldnt have taken it. Its possible the information FICL  gave  Mrs W 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have been. So I need to consider if Mrs W would 
have acted differently  and not bought the policy, if better information had been provided.  
And on balance  I dont  think better information would have led her to act differently.
Mrs W has told us she had three to six months  employee sick pay to rely on to make  the 
monthly repayment on the hire purchase agreement  if she became too unwell  to work. But 
Ref: DRN43227812this policy would  have paid out in addition to any employee benefits Mrs W would receive. 
I think the PPI could have been useful to her in that her monthly hire purchase payments 
would be met. And it would have paid out for 12 months and also included life as well as 
additional cover  if Mrs W lost her job. I couldnt see any significant or limiting terms  such  
as a pre-existing medical condition - that would have affected Mrs Ws decision to take the 
policy out either.
Im not sure FICL gave clear information  on the costs of the PPI policy,  but I dont think 
this would have  affected Mrs Ws decision to take out the policy  for the reasons I have 
already given.
Ive taken into account all Mrs Ws comments about her not taking the policy  if she had 
been given enough information about  it because of her employee benefits and that she 
was advised to take the policy. But for the reasons mentioned above, these points dont  
change my conclusion.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4322781