K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that the pension income  he has been offered by The Royal  London Mutual 
Assurance Society Limited  is much lower than he was expecting. Mr E says it will not 
provide an adequate income for him to live on.
background
Mr E took out a section 226 pension plan with Royal London  in 1983. The plan was set up 
with a retirement age of 60 years.
At the time Mr E took out the pension plan he was 25 years old. Initially  Mr E paid £40.75 per 
month into the plan.  He increased his contribution to £60.75  per month  in 1998.
Based on the terms of the plan Mr E took out in 1983, Royal London agreed to provide a 
guaranteed minimum  pension (GMP)  of £2,570  per year, exclusive of profits . In other 
words, it agreed to pay Mr E a minimum pension of £2,570 per year from the age of 60 
based on his contribution  of £40.75  per month. 
Mr E reached age 60 in early 2018.  Royal London  offered Mr E an annual  pension  of £3,530 
per year, after taking  25% of his pension  pot as a tax free lump sum.
Mr E complained to Royal London. He said the pension it has offered was much lower  than 
he expected and would not be sufficient for him to live on. He explained that this was a 
particular worry as he is not yet eligible for a state pension.
Royal London didnt  uphold Mr Es complaint. But it did pay him £150  for the delay in dealing 
with his complaint.
It explained that Mr Es pension plan included a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP). It said 
that, at age 60 Mr E was entitled to a GMP of £2,570 per year. This was set out in the policy 
schedule Mr E received  when he took out his pension plan in 1983.
Royal London said that the pension  fund used to calculate the GMP was based on,
 the accumulation of the premiums paid less policy fees at 3% growth a year, regardless 
of the profits  and loss made on the with profits  fund that the policy is invested in.
It explained that in Mr Es case, £29,491 of his pension pot had been used to provide  the 
GMP. This was then converted to a pension of £2,570 per year using a guaranteed annuity  
rate of £8.717 per £100  of pension fund.
It said that the GMP was intended to provide Mr E with the some  certainty.  So that 
regardless of the amount  of any annual or final bonuses  added to his pension pot, or annuity 
rates at his retirement, Mr E could  be sure that he would get a GMP of £2,570 each year if 
he maintained  his monthly contributions  to the plan.
It also explained that the GMP was exclusive of profits as it was intended to protect  the 
Mr E against  the risk of lower than expected  bonuses being  declared. As it was designed as 
an underpin on the amount of pension  that could be purchased, no final bonus was 
included in the calculation of the GMP.
Ref: DRN48541762It noted that Mr E had increased his premium  in 1998 by £20 per month. It explained that this 
increase did not increase the GMP Mr E was entitled to as it had stopped offering GMPs to 
its customers in late 1986.
Mr E was not satisfied  with Royal Londons  response and brought his complaint  to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Es complaint should be upheld. He said that 
having looked into the complaint he didnt think Royal  London had done anything  wrong.
He noted that Mr E said that when he took out the plan he had understood that the profits  at 
maturity would be added to the GMP of £2,570.  Mr E said the pension  hed been offered of 
£3,530 was nowhere near the amount  he thought he would receive.
Our investigator said he felt the crux of this complaint was whether Mr E was entitled to a 
higher pension than Royal London  had offered. He noted that Mr E had said that he had not 
been offered a better rate on the open  market than the pension  income offered by Royal 
London.
He said he didnt think Royal London had done  anything wrong  by setting out that Mr E 
would be entitled  to a GMP of £2,570 at age 60, exclusive of profits.
He explained  that any profits added to Mr Es pension pot were based on the fund value, not 
the GMP. He said the intention  was that Mr E would receive a bigger pension than the GMP 
set out in his 1983 policy  schedule. And Mr E had been offered a higher pension  that the 
£2,570 GMP. 
He noted that as at 18 June 2018, Mr E had paid a total of £22,666.25 in premiums. On 23 
July 2019, Mr Es pension  pot with Royal London  was valued at £89,007. Of which 
£50,479.55 was the vesting bonus total.
£29,491 of Mr Es pension  pot was used to provide  the GMP Mr E had been promised. The 
remaining amount  of the fund had been  used  to provide the additional amount of pension Mr 
E had been  offered and the tax free cash lump sum of over £19,000.  The total annual 
pension offered was £3,530 in addition to the tax free cash. 
Our investigator explained that one the key reasons the pension income Royal  London had 
offered was low was because annuity  rates are currently very low. And he said that the 
overall pension  Mr E would be entitled  to would have been lower had he not benefited  from 
the GMP attached  to his pension plan.
He also noted  that, in line with Mr Es policy, the GMP of £2,570  would have been paid even 
if the value of Mr Es pension pot hadnt been  sufficient to cover a pension  of £2,570 per 
year. 
Mr E didnt accept our investigators view and asked for his complaint to be determined by 
an ombudsman. In summary he said he had been led to understand that the GMP of £2,570,  
exclusive of profits at age 60 would give him a sufficient income to live on. Mr E also 
explained that he's worked for over 40 years and had planned to retire  at age 60 and live on 
his Royal  London  pension until he reached  state retirement age.
Ref: DRN48541763my findings
I have carefully considered all the information  that has been provided in connection with this 
complaint.
Having done so, I cant reasonably find that Royal London has done anything wrong, or 
acted incorrectly in this matter. Ill explain why.
Mr E took out a section 226 plan in 1983. Royal London promised to pay a GMP of £2,570  
per year from age 60 if Mr E maintained his payments into his pension plan. The policy  
schedule set out that this GMP was exclusive of profits.
Mr E has explained that the pension Royal London  has offered him is much lower  than he 
expected and he wants it to increase the amount  it is willing  to offer.
I do appreciate Mr Es position. But I cant reasonably require Royal  London to pay Mr E a 
higher pension than it has offered. The pension it has offered Mr E is more  than the GMP set 
out in the policy schedule.  And I havent  seen anything to show  that Mr E was promised that 
his pension would be more that the GMP.
As our investigator explained, one of the key reasons the pension Mr E has been  offered is 
low is due to the very low yields on gilts (Government bonds) and corporate bonds. Pension  
providers buy gilts and bonds as they give predictable returns so they are suited to annuities  
which provide a guaranteed income for life. As the returns on gilts are very low, and have 
been for some time, this is reflected in the size of pension  that providers can offer.  
I note Mr E told our investigator  that he was not able to find a better annuity rate on the open 
market than he had been offered by Royal London.
The pension that Royal London has offered Mr E is higher  than he was able to find on the 
open market because he has benefited from the GMP  of £2,570. The terms of the GMP 
attached to his pension  plan, mean  that only £29,491 of his pension  pot was needed  to fund 
the GMP of £2,570 per year.
As our investigator explained, if the GMP wasnt  attached  to Mr Es plan it is very likely that 
the pension he would  have been  offered,  based on his pension pot with Royal London, 
would be much lower. 
Mr E chose to take 25% (over £19,000) by way of cash lump sum from his pension pot. This 
has also reduced the income  that can be bought with his remaining pension pot. Despite this 
the pension Royal London offered Mr E is still over a third more  that the GMP of £2,570.
I have very carefully considered all Mr E has said about his expectation that his pension 
would be much higher.  And I am sympathetic  to his position. I can see that the amount 
offered by Royal London came as a shock to Mr E and has caused him a great  deal of 
upset. But the fall in annuity rates isnt something  that could have been predicted when Mr E 
took out his pension plan in 1983. 
I note that Royal London  has paid Mr E £150  for the delay in responding to his complaint. I 
think this is fair for the inconvenience  this caused him.
Ref: DRN48541764In summary,  I havent seen anything to show that Royal London promised Mr E a higher 
pension on retirement.  As this is the case I cant require Royal  London to offer Mr E a higher 
pension.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr E was hoping  for but in the absence of 
anything to show that Mr E was promised a higher pension I cannot uphold  his complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4854176