K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Canada  Square Operations Limited  mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr M bought  the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out an Egg credit card online.
Our adjudicator didnt  find that the policy had been  mis-sold.  Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicators conclusions so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen a screen print of the part of the online credit card application process where  
PPI wouldve been offered  to Mr M. This shows that he wouldve  had to choose 
whether he wanted PPI or not before he could continue with his application. Canada 
Squares record of the application  data shows that Mr M selected  the PPI. So I think 
Canada Square  made him aware  that the PPI was optional  and that he chose to take 
it.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. So it didnt have to ask about any other means Mr M had to cover his 
repayments. 
But even if Canada Square had recommended the PPI to Mr M, it doesnt  look like it 
was unsuitable  for him, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr 
M has told me he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work, and 
that he had some savings. But I note the amount of savings Mr M mentioned to 
Canada Square  was different to the amount  he reported to this service. Without any 
further evidence  to support what Mr M has told me, I cant  safely say that he had 
savings worth at least twelve months  of his salary. 
Im also mindful that the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Ms employer 
benefits and would do so for longer. Having the policy  in place would mean  Mr M 
could use his employer  benefits and savings  to pay for other  expenses. 
So overall, I think Mr M wouldve had some use for the policy. 
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave  Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI 
Ref: DRN46435252was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him 
off taking out the cover. 
Which means Canada Square doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because  Canada  Square didnt 
tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4643525