K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold  her a regular premium payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mrs B bought the policy in connection with a credit card that she took out some time 
between 1996  and 2000. Lloyds cant say for sure whether the PPI was added to the 
account at the same  time as Mrs B applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
conclusions, so the complaint has been  passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs B applied  for her card some time between 1996 and 2000 and its possible that 
she bought PPI at the same time. But Lloyds doesnt know  for sure if this is the case. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest the PPI was taken out after the card. So I think its 
most likely Mrs B bought the PPI at the same time as applying for her credit card.
I think its likely that Lloyds made Mrs B aware  the PPI was optional and she chose to
take it. The documents from the point of sale are no longer available,  which  isnt 
surprising as its many years since the policy was sold. But from what we know  about 
Lloyds sales processes between 1996 and 2000,  Mrs B wouldve had to actively 
select the PPI on the credit card application  form. I think its unlikely that the PPI 
wouldve been added to Mrs Bs account if she hadnt ticked  the box to say that she 
wanted the cover. 
Lloyds  accepts that it probably recommended the PPI to Mrs B, but it doesnt look as 
if it was unsuitable  for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Its not clear  whether Mrs B had any savings,  and she hasnt provided any evidence  
to show that she had money  available to cover her repayments if she couldnt work. 
So from what Ive seen, I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit for Mrs B 
if she was off work sick.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But its unlikely Mrs B would have been  affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better  information wouldve stopped her buying it.
Ref: DRN41283062But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mrs B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4128306