K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that his partner Miss F took out a hire purchase  agreement with Caversham 
Finance Limited,  trading  as Brighthouse but they didnt receive the goods.
background
Mr A contacted Brighthouse as he believed his partner had taken out a finance agreement 
with them  for a washer dryer that was never  received.
They told him that hed signed the agreement with them in January 2016 but the deal had 
been terminated the next month before  he received the goods as he was in arrears. They 
said hed made  two payments totalling £33.88 but they noted that they hadnt refunded 
Mr As payments. So they added interest  and sent him a cheque  for the money  hed paid. 
Theyve subsequently  offered to pay him £50 compensation in recognition of the 
inconvenience this must  have  caused.
But Mr A says it was his partner who raised  the agreement and that hes made payments of 
up to £100 towards  it. Hes disappointed that Brighthouse werent able to locate his account 
when he rang them  too and that theyve given conflicting information about  who the account 
holder was. So he referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the agreement  being  referred to was most likely to be the one Mr A 
took out with Brighthouse  in January 2016.  She couldnt find any evidence  that Mr As 
partner had owned the account or find any supporting evidence that Mr A had paid more 
than Brighthouse  had refunded. She thought Brighthouse had been remiss not to have 
refunded the payments Mr A had made  to the account quicker but she noted that theyd now 
done so and she also thought there  was evidence theyd  provided conflicting and confusing 
information about who the account holder was. She therefore thought it was right that 
Brighthouse should compensate Mr A for the trouble and inconvenience  hed been put to but 
she thought Brighthouses offer of £50 was sufficient in the circumstances.
But Mr A disagreed and he therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr A but I agree with the investigators view of his complaint and 
whilst I think some compensation was due, I think the £50 Brighthouse has offered is 
sufficient in the circumstances. Please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN40828202I can see Mr A feels strongly that hes paid more towards his agreement than Brighthouse 
have accepted but Im afraid  I havent been  provided  with information to demonstrate  this 
was the case.  Im persuaded  that it was most  likely the payments Brighthouse have refunded  
are correct because the agreement  was only live for a very limited time and had been  
terminated because  of the arrears  situation.  If more  had been paid I think  this would have  
been evident. Its likely the agreement wouldnt have been terminated and Mr A would have 
complained hed not received his goods. 
Ive also not been provided with any evidence that the agreement was in Mr As partners 
name and Im persuaded that the agreement Brighthouse considered: the one they refunded 
money from, was the agreement Mr A had contacted them  about and was a debt Mr A owed. 
The agreement is in his name and has his contact details on it.
However, I think some mistakes were  made  by Brighthouse. They have  for instance; 
provided confusing  information about the account holder; been  slow to provide a refund  and 
given a confusing  breakdown of the money due to Mr A in their final response  to him. 
But I agree  with the investigator that their offer of £50 compensation for the inconvenience 
this has caused  is reasonable and sufficient in these  circumstances and I wont be asking 
them to take any further action.
In addition to the issues  above,  Mr A has also complained that Brighthouse have shared  his 
personal information and breached data protection rules. Data  protection breaches are 
considered by the Information Commissioners Office and Mr A will need  to contact them  if 
hed like them to consider whether a breach has occurred. He can do so at www.ico.org.uk.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4082820