K820x#14complaint
Miss K and Mr C complain that Lloyds Bank plc shouldnt have lent them  money to buy a 
house because  of the defects present at the property.
background
Miss K and Mr C applied for a mortgage  with Lloyds. They opted for a level one valuation. 
The valuation referred to previous movement at the property but said there was no evidence 
this was on-going.  It concluded the property  was suitable for lending purposes.  As a result 
Lloyds agreed  to lend money secured on the property. Miss K and Mr C have subsequently 
discovered a number of significant defects with the property. They think Lloyds shouldnt 
have lent them money secured  on the property.
The investigator was sympathetic  to Miss K and Mr C but didnt think Lloyds had done 
anything wrong. It had relied  on the opinion of the surveyor which she felt it was reasonable 
for it to do.
Mr C and Miss K disagree.  They  say they were  told that the valuation they requested  would 
cover the basics. The report  said there  was no ongoing  movement  but that was incorrect.  
They dont feel Lloyds  has treated them fairly as it hasnt responded to them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to make it clear that this is a decision regarding the action of the bank alone and does 
not cover  the actions  of the surveyors.
I appreciate that it must be very upsetting  for Miss K and Mr C to discover that the property 
they purchased  has significant defects. But looking at the actions of Lloyds I cant see the 
bank did anything wrong. It offered Miss K and Mr C a choice of reports.  They chose the 
most basic. The report which followed said the property was suitable to lend on. I think the 
bank was entitled to rely upon  the professional experience of the surveyor when making this 
decision. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K and Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2020.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4234871