K821x#15complaint
Miss H complained that a default notice  was incorrectly applied to her credit file by 
Provident Personal Credit Limited,  trading at the time as Satsuma Loans. For consistency  Ill 
refer mainly to Satsuma in this decision.
Miss H borrowed  a short-term loan from Satsuma in 2016. It seems she encountered 
financial difficulties associated with the borrowing and wasnt able to keep up with the 
payments. Her complaint,  however, is specifically about a default notice which Satsuma 
placed on her credit  file because she hadnt repaid the borrowing in accordance with the 
credit agreement. Miss H says this default was applied  incorrectly  and unfairly. She says this 
has exacerbated her problems and caused her distress.
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in June 2020,  setting  out why I thought 
the complaint  should be upheld.  And I asked both parties to provide any further submissions 
or information to me within a certain  time.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent received anything  back which 
alters my view so Im not going to change  the approach I took in the provisional  decision. 
what Satsuma should  do
The default  notice  to be completely removed from Miss Hs credit  file as it was incorrectly  
and unfairly applied.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Hs complaint and I direct the default  notice to be completely removed from 
Miss Hs credit file. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service  I am required to 
ask Miss H to accept or reject my decision  before 7 August 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
summary  provisional  decision
complaint
Miss H complained  that a default notice was incorrectly  applied to her credit file by Provident 
Personal Credit Limited, trading at the time as Satsuma Loans. For consistency Ill refer mainly to 
Satsuma in this decision.
background
Miss H borrowed a short-term loan from Satsuma in 2016.  It seems she encountered  financial 
difficulties associated with the borrowing  and wasnt able to keep up with the payments. 
Ref: DRN40431732Her complaint, however, is specifically about a default notice  which Satsuma placed  on her credit file 
because she hadnt repaid  the borrowing in accordance  with the credit agreement. Miss H says this 
default was applied incorrectly  and unfairly. She says this has exacerbated her problems  and caused 
her distress.
Im very sorry Miss H has had to wait a long time to get to this stage. Satsuma hasnt  dealt with her 
complaint very well in my opinion. Nevertheless, one of our adjudicators  looked  at her complaint a 
while ago and thought  it ought to be upheld. But because Satsuma hadnt supplied very much  
information in responding to the complaint points, another adjudicator re-visited the case  and said 
they didnt think there was enough to uphold it.
The complaint has therefore  come to me for an ombudsmans decision.  Because of the conflicting  
views Im going to issue a provisional decision  which means Im giving  the parties  a final chance to 
submit any further evidence or information if they want to. They  have until 3 July 2020 to do this, after 
which I intend  to issue my final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
It seems the original default notice was placed on Miss Hs account  on 12 December 2016. Miss H 
says she subsequently asked Satsuma  for a copy of the default letter  as she couldnt  recall  ever 
receiving it. She was told Satsuma wasnt able to provide such  a copy. Satsuma  has said the letter 
was sent out on 12 December 2016 telling her it intended to default  her file in 28 days  time if she 
didnt take action.
Miss H says that when she later looked at her credit file, she noticed that the default  showed as being  
applied on 12 December 2016 - the same date that the default letter was evidently  sent out. Miss Hs 
case is therefore that she wasn't given an opportunity to deal with this before the default  was added; 
as it was done  straight away and without proper notice. 
Satsuma issued a final response to Miss H confirming that the notice of default letter was indeed  
issued on 12 December 2016 and it would have allowed a period of 28 days  for her to get in contact 
to clear the arrears, or put an arrangement  in place to avoid the default  being  applied. 
However, we now know that this was applied incorrectly. Satsuma admits that, upon reviewing Miss 
Hs account,  the default  was issued on her credit file also on 12 December 2016.  As Ive said,  the 
established practice is that consumers are given  a further 28 days to address  the issues set out in 
these types of letter  and we know Satsumas template default letters did normally refer to this. So the 
default should  not have  been placed on her credit file on 12 December 2016 because thats obviously 
the same day as Satsuma says it sent out the letter.  The default  should  not have taken effect until 9 
January 2017 at the earliest.
Satsuma seems now to recognise  an error  was made in this regard and has agreed to correct  it. But 
Miss H still contends  that she didnt  receive any letter.
We requested information on exactly what action Satsuma took but it is unable to provide a copy of 
the default  letter it says was sent. It implies that as it was sent to Miss H, no other copy is available 
and instead sent us a generic template of a letter it typically sent to customers like Miss H at the time.  
It also sent a screenshot of a computerised  note stating a default  had been issued on 12 December 
2016. 
I have considered all this with care. However, the computerised note doesnt have enough 
information, in my view, to say that a proper default letter was sent to Miss H in the correct  way. I find 
it somewhat implausible that no copy of that original letter, showing it was correctly addressed for 
example, is available.  Taking  these  things into account   and also noting the very basic mistake of 
Ref: DRN40431733issuing the default without proper notice on the same day Satsuma says it sent her a letter  I find 
Miss Hs recollections more  plausible than those of Satsumas.
I can see weve tried several times to engage with Satsuma by requesting more clarity. But in short, I 
consider it more likely that the default  notice  was incorrectly and unfairly issued  on 12 December 
2020. I also find this was most probably done without an explanatory letter being sent to Miss H giving  
the correct notice. The evidence put forward by Satsuma that any such  letter  was ever sent is far from 
being comprehensive and falls substantially short  of what Id expect  to see.
what Satsuma should  do
Subject to any replies to this provisional  decision, I intend to direct the default notice to be completely 
removed from Miss Hs credit file as it was incorrectly  and unfairly  applied.
my provisional  decision
I am intending to uphold Miss Hs complaint and direct Provident Personal  Credit  Limited to put things 
right as set out above. 
I will consider any further information from either party, providing I get it by 3 July 2020. After that Ill 
issue a final decision.
Ref: DRN4043173