K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt ensure it processed his 
request to draw his pension benefits as soon as it could, and that he had to repeatedly  
chase for it to take action.
background
On 8 May 2018  Aviva has a record of a call in from Mr K requesting a retirement pack.  He 
phoned the following day to say he hadnt  received it and after some discussion Aviva  told 
Mr K it had a ten working day service standard for these. Nevertheless it expedited Mr Ks 
request and a quote was posted on 10 May,  although for some  reason Mr K didnt  promptly  
receive it. When he chased on 14 May a copy was emailed to him, as in fact hed originally 
requested.
Aviva then called  Mr K back on 16 May to address his concerns  about the service standards. 
In addition Mr K was saying hed written to Aviva earlier  in the year without getting a 
response at all. And hed spent an hour phoning  through to say that he hadnt got Avivas 
email, because he wasnt warned hed need to provide  his policy  number for security  checks.
Avivas representative  apologised that Mr K hadnt been given the correct information on 
turnaround times. Although they had no trace of an earlier letter  from him, they explained 
that they hadnt been able to email him the quote until 14 May because no email address 
was added to the workflow  task on Avivas system. 
The representative offered Mr K £75 in this call for the inconvenience caused, which Mr K 
accepted at that time. She explained  that once they received Mr Ks completed option 
selection form, Aviva would issue a final quote for the amount he would receive.  She noted 
an agreement to expedite  this part of the process:  once in, we will deal 48 hr plus email 48 
hr, 4 [working day] max.
Mr K sent the option forms back on 16 May. A note was added to Avivas  system on 18 May 
asking for the quote to be expedited  and emailed to him within four working days. The quote 
was generated  on 22 May and emailed to Mr K on the 23rd  three  working days later.
Mr K signed  to accept  a small  lump sum payment and sent the form for this back  on 29 May, 
asking for the payment as soon as possible. It appears Aviva received the forms on 1 June 
and began the payment process on 4 June (the next working day).  After it checked  Mr Ks 
identity details the request for a payment to be raised was put in a queue on 7 June, and 
was submitted as a Bankers' Automated Clearing Service  (BACS) payment  on 13 June.
Having received the payment, which took longer than hed expected, Mr K wanted  to reopen 
the complaint.  He said that in Avivas  phone call on 16 May he was promised the payment  
itself would be prioritised,  rather than just the processing of his paperwork. 
Aviva disagreed that it had discussed the subsequent payment process  or that it could fast 
track a payment. It said it had warned Mr K of its ten working day service  standard  regarding 
this. So it didnt offer any further compensation.
One of our investigators  didnt think Mr Ks complaint should succeed. She said that even 
though it might have  been helpful  for Aviva to have 'fast tracked' the payment given the past 
complaint, to be fair to all customers Aviva processed payments in the date order they were 
requested. And the release of Mr Ks payment on 13 June 2018  was within  Avivas  ten 
Ref: DRN43292602working day service standard. She added that the £75 Aviva  had already paid, overall,  was 
enough compensation for all of the issues Mr K had complained about.
Mr K didnt agree. He said had he known that there  would further delays, which  resulted  in 
him further  having  to chase Aviva at his expense and use recorded  delivery,  he wouldnt 
have accepted Avivas  £75 offer.  As he spent as much  time (11 hours in total) and money  
following matters up again after he accepted that offer. As agreement  couldnt be reached,  
the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  That includes the phone  call of 16 May 
2018 from which Mr K believed his payment would be sent to him more  quickly.
I think the summary of the call Ive put above from Avivas notes is generally accurate.  The 
call handler admitted that there had been two opportunities for its member of staff to warn 
him of the timescale of up to ten working  days (plus 48 hours for an email  or letter) during 
phone calls on 8 and 9 May, and they failed to do so. So on this occasion Aviva  accepted  
that in the absence of this information, Mr K might have thought his retirement pack would 
arrive more quickly. Thats why it offered him £75 which he accepted.
This doesnt mean Mr K is entitled to separate amounts of compensation every  time a future 
turnaround time isnt explained. Whether or not further  compensation is warranted  would 
depend on the context of the conversation. Mr K suggests that from the remainder of this 
conversation, he was led to believe that he would quickly get a bank transfer of the cash  
proceeds of his pension. I dont  agree  thats a fair conclusion, for a combination  of reasons.
Firstly, the call handler told him that the next thing that would happen on receiving his option 
selection firm was that it would issue a quote based  on the options hed selected. That would  
have a form with it which  he would need to complete  to say he wanted to draw the pension  
in this way. At this point Mr K asked  the call handler  what the timescales  were  for that.
There might  have been several  different  ways  to interpret Mr Ks question. The call handler 
thought it was about how long it would take Aviva  to provide the quote from when Mr K 
returned his form.  As that was the next stage in the process, and given that this is the piece 
of information  he hadnt been  given at the previous  step in the process,  I can see why she 
answered his question in this way. She said he should have been told that any piece of 
work or request takes up to ten working  days to process, plus an email/posting time of 48 
hours. Mr K initially said that this was OK, but she offered to keep an eye out for his 
completed form and attempt to process it within 48 hours. Because  it might  take another  48 
hours to email the final quote across, she said this could be with him within  four days.
From what  I can see, Aviva achieved this timescale.  But importantly, I cant see that the call 
handler gave any specific undertaking about  how long it might then take to process Mr Ks 
payment  other than that shed now warned  him that as, as a separate  work item, it could 
take up to ten working days. And that timescale refers to the part thats within  Avivas  
control. So I wouldnt in any case have expected Aviva  to accept responsibility for the time a 
BACS transfer took, or include  that in its service  standard.
It took from 1 to 13 June  for Aviva to turn around  Mr Ks request for a BACS  payment  and 
submit it to the bank.  This was within its stated service  standard  of ten working days, but I 
have to consider  whether thats a reasonable timescale. At this stage no new quotes or 
paperwork needed to be generated  and sent for Mr Ks completion.  I would expect this stage 
Ref: DRN43292603to have taken  no longer  than necessary for Aviva  to check all required paperwork had been 
completed correctly and the payment  could  be given the appropriate level of sign-off.
In my experience some insurers can, and do, accomplish this step a little (albeit  not much, 
on average) quicker than the eight working  days Aviva  managed  here. I think  it would have 
been reasonable for Aviva to aim for a quicker  turnaround of the payment  itself, rather  than 
necessarily falling back on the same service  standard it applies to production of quotes, for 
example. That would be consistent  with the Association of British Insurers  Code of Practice 
for pension  maturities, which our rules allow me to take into account and which  states 
payments should  be made promptly. 
But nevertheless I note that it didnt take the whole ten working  days  in this case,  and I dont 
of course know if there was a particularly high demand for payments to be processed at that 
time.  And I dont think its fair to say that the undertaking  Aviva gave (and kept)  for 
processing Mr Ks quote request ever applied to the payment itself.  This isnt something 
Mr K specifically asked Aviva about, which he could have done to clarify the situation. 
And in any event, it was always  going  to take around another two days  for the payment to 
reach Mr K through BACS. So taking all of this into account, whilst I appreciate  while Mr K 
may have  been  expecting  to receive the payment somewhat sooner, I agree with the 
investigator that the inconvenience he experienced would only have been slight. And any 
interest he might have lost on this payment  would have  been dwarfed by Avivas  offer of 
£75, which  in all the circumstances  of this case I think  is fair. 
I appreciate Mr K decided  to use recorded delivery  to send Aviva his documents. That wasnt  
something Aviva required him to, do but I heard it come up in the discussion on 16 May,  
because a previous  letter  Mr K had sent Aviva  got lost in the post. Given that Mr K didnt 
want any further delays,  it wasnt an unusual decision to use recorded delivery. But I cant  
require Aviva to meet  Mr Ks postage costs, or the further time he might  have spent  chasing  
up the payment   based on what seemed to be a misunderstanding of how long that part of 
the process would  take. So Im not requiring Aviva to pay Mr K any more compensation.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2018.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4329260