K820x#14complaint
Ms H is unhappy that Stonebridge International Insurance Ltd wont give her a new 
insurance policy. 
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision. In my provisional  
decision I explained why I thought  this was a complaint we could and should consider.  In 
relation to its merits I said: 
Ms H is concerned that the policy hasnt been  cancelled as directed by the court.  
I understand the policy  has now been  cancelled because Ms H stopped making the 
payments. But if Ms H is worried the order hasnt been complied with shell  need to 
address this with the court who gave the order. I cannot interfere with the order made  
by the court  as it has already been considered by the judge who oversaw the 
proceedings
Ms H didnt  think it was fair that she wasnt the named  policyholder even though  she 
paid the premiums. Its of course possible there  may have been an administrative 
error in the way the policy was set up. But its not possible to make a clear finding on 
this point without  the perspective of Ms Hs ex-husband, as there  are many ways a 
family could choose to set up a policy. So, I cant make  a fair and reasonable finding  
based on the evidence I have available.
Stonebridge  had explained that they cannot  separate the policy.  Their  procedures 
dont allow them to do this. So, it just isnt possible for Stonebridge to take the action 
that Ms H wants them to as their business process  doesnt allow  for this to happen. I 
acknowledged Ms Hs frustration but explained  I cant direct a business to change  
their process. And its their commercial decision as to whether they want  to allow  
policyholders the ability to split cover. I also noted it isnt common  industry practice  to 
allow a policyholder to split a policy as most insurers would require a new policy  to 
be set up. 
I can see Stonebridge  has considered  whether it can offer a new policy to Ms H, 
which is what Id expect  them  to do. However,  they have stopped selling the policies  
and that isnt an option. Thats also a commercial decision they are entitled to make. 
I had not seen that Ms H has experienced a financial loss. Whether she was the 
policy holder or the beneficiary she was still covered under the policy.  She could 
have benefitted  from the policy should she have needed to make a claim.  And, even 
though Stonebridge wouldnt act on her instruction to cancel the policy,  she did effect  
cancellation by stopping payment the premiums.
I empathised with Ms Hs position. But, taking into account the available  evidence,  I 
didnt think Stonebridge have treated her unfairly.
Ms H responded to ask if we could contact  Mr H on her behalf. The investigator confirmed 
that our service wouldnt be able to contact Mr H. Stonebridge said they didnt have anything 
else to add. So I need to make a decision. 
Ref: DRN43674502my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Ms H is disappointed but she hasnt presented  any new or different 
information in support  of her complaint points. And Stonebridge hasnt had anything further 
to add. It follows that there is no reason  for me to reach a different outcome to my 
provisional decision and Im not upholding this complaint. 
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2020.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4367450