K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Santander UK Plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs F payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1991.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago and none of the original documents from the 
time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also I wouldnt 
expect someone to recall  in detail everything  that happened about  27 years ago when the 
application was made.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. 
Ive taken all this into account. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why:
I dont have strong evidence to show  that Santander failed to make Mr and Mrs F aware  
the PPI was optional; or that it didnt  ensure  that they freely  chose  to take it. Without  
stronger evidence, it wouldnt  be fair for me to say that Santander acted wrongly  in that 
way.
Santander probably recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs F, but it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable,  based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances  at the time.  Being unable 
to pay a mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at 
the same  time as Mr F (the person covered) received any employer sick pay, and 
potentially for longer.  It would  have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any 
redundancy pay. And it would have  put off the time when Mr and Mrs F would need to 
fall back on any savings. This all would have put Mr and Mrs F in a more  secure  position,  
if they eventually  lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Its hard to know how well Santander explained the costs and benefits of the policy.  But I 
dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have affected  
whether Mr and Mrs F took the PPI.
Its possible Santander didnt  clearly point out the main  things the policy didnt cover.  But 
its unlikely Mr F would have been  affected  by any of these. Its likely Mr F was eligible 
Ref: DRN48317392for the policy, and Mr and Mrs F be paying for it monthly, so they could cancel it at any 
time without  further  cost if their situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4831739