K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) have 
inaccurately allocated  a lump sum payment hes made towards his finance agreement.
 
background
Mr E took receipt of a used car in September 2017. He financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS. 48 monthly payments of £342.72  were  due.
In June 2018 he contacted VWFS and said he wanted to pay a lump sum off that would be 
sufficient to reduce  his monthly payments to £50. He was told hed need to pay £6,000 so he 
did that. But he subsequently discovered  that £1,152.65 of that money  had been  used  to 
reduce his balloon payment and, as he didnt want to make  that payment and buy the car at 
the end of the term, he asked VWFS to refund it to him.
But VWFS refused. They said that the adviser  Mr E had spoken  to had explained that the 
balloon payment would be reduced and Mr E had said ok, thats cool. So they didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong.
But Mr E was disappointed with their response. So he referred his complaint to this service 
and our adjudicator  provided her opinion. She listed to the three calls that Mr E had with 
VWFS and noted that in the first call he was told hed need to pay £6,000 to his account in 
order to reduce his monthly payments to £50. He wasnt told about a reduction  to the balloon 
payment and this was only mentioned  when  he called again to explain hed paid the £6,000. 
So she thought it was clear Mr Es intention wasnt to make  a payment towards his balloon  
payment and VWFS should refund the £1,152.65 that had been credited to it.
But VWFS didnt agree. They thought they should  only return  this money at the end of the 
agreement when it was clear whether Mr E was going to make the balloon payment or not. 
They said that to do so earlier would disadvantage them  and they therefore asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr Es intentions  were clear. In the call he had with VWFS on 29 June 2018 he told them  he 
wanted to make a lump  sum payment that would reduce his monthly contributions  to £50. It 
was VWFS  who told him that would be £6,000. But the figure was wrong  and the surplus 
Ref: DRN41635192was debited from the balloon payment and not returned to Mr E as I think  it would have been 
fair to do.
A few days  later and after hed made  the payment VWFS had requested,  it is clear  he was 
told that the surplus would  reduce the balloon payment due at the end of the term. And its 
also clear that Mr E responded in the affirmative. But Im not persuaded this was what he 
wanted to have happened when  he made  his original; request on 29 June and I think  the 
agent shouldve  explained that the surplus  would be returned or could  be debited from the 
final (optional) balloon payment. 
So I agree that the fairest  solution here would be for VWFS to refund the surplus of 
£1,152.65 to Mr E. I see that VWFS have  complained that theyll  be disadvantaged  if they 
have to refund this now as theres  no certainty  Mr E will not want to keep the vehicle at the 
end of the agreement. But theyve not explained  why theyll  be disadvantaged and I cant  
see how they will either. Theyve received an early contribution to an optional  final payment 
that Im persuaded Mr E never had the intention to pay anyway. So I think  it should be 
refunded.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to refund the overpayment of £1,152.65 to Mr E.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4163519