K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited wrongly  declined  a claim he made  on 
his motorbike insurance policy after the bike was stolen.
background
Mr B renewed his policy with MCE in October  2018.  He was asked to confirm that there  were  
no changes to the details hed provided the previous year.  From the details she had, the 
advisor said that Mr Bs bike was kept in a locked garage and that the garage was locked 
when unattended. Mr B agreed with those  statements. Hed told MCE when he called it in 
June 2018 to change the bike insured  on the policy that it was stored in a brick garage. 
After the bike was stolen,  MCE asked Mr B to send it images of where the bike was kept. It 
then said there wasnt a garage at Mr Bs address. It said it had set out in the policy what a 
garage was  a locked  structure for housing motor vehicles made of brick, concrete, steel or 
stone. MCE thought Mr B had deliberately  misrepresented the facts  to it. It said Mr Bs bike 
was stored  to the rear of his home, between the house and a rear wall with a garage door 
attached to it, but no roof. It said the space was not a building.  MCE thought  it was fair to 
void the policy back to its inception and not cover the claim.  
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Bs complaint. He didnt think MCE had made it clear 
enough that for a locked structure  to be a garage it had to have a roof. He said although it 
wasnt a traditional  garage, Mr B considered it as such because it was made  of brick and 
had a garage door attached. Mr B said his neighbours  stored their vehicles  in the same way. 
He said they - and the local police - referred to these storage spaces as garages. As the 
investigator thought  there hadnt been a misrepresentation he said MCE should  remove the 
voidance, deal with the claim and pay Mr B £100 compensation for trouble and upset.
MCE said Mr Bs structure could in no way be deemed a garage  as it had no roof and 
provided no cover. It said the space could be accessed by thieves by climbing  over the 
closed door.  It said Mr Bs type of storage could better be described as a locked compound 
or private  property. As the investigator didnt agree, MCE asked for a review  of the complaint 
by an ombudsman. I issued a provisional decision as follows:
As MCE  has relied on Mr Bs non-disclosure  to justify its decision,  I have  to consider first of 
all whether he misrepresented  the facts to MCE. If so, I have to decide  whether it was a 
qualifying misrepresentation under the provisions of the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure  
and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).  
The first step is to consider whether MCE asked a clear question  that Mr B answered 
incorrectly. When a renewal takes place, a new contract  starts.  So a consumer  has to take 
reasonable care at renewal to answer  the questions put by the insurer.  
Ive listened to the renewal call in October 2018. The advisor  informed Mr B that hed told 
MCE previously  his bike was kept inside a locked garage. She also said the garage must be 
locked when unattended. She didnt ask Mr B any questions, nor did she ask him to agree  
with the statements shed made.  So I think the advisor handled the call badly. But the call 
shows that Mr B understood that the advisor was in effect asking for him to confirm  what  
shed said. As he agreed to the statements she made, he confirmed that his bike was stored 
inside a locked  garage.  And he didnt  later query  that in the policys  statement of fact.    
Ref: DRN49323462Ive listened to a call Mr B made to MCE in June  2018 when he changed the bike insured on 
the policy. During that call he was asked clear questions about  where  the bike was kept. He 
said it was kept in a brick garage. Mr B made a similar statement when asked where  the bike 
was stored  when he renewed  the policy in 2017.  I dont think those calls are directly  relevant 
to whether there was a misrepresentation at renewal in October 2018. But they are evidence 
of Mr Bs established view of the way he stored  the bike, which he confirmed at that renewal. 
I dont think Mr B gave the right answer to MCE, as I dont  think  the space he stores the bike 
in can be classed as a garage. So I have to look at whether he took reasonable care not to 
misrepresent the situation and whether MCE would have acted differently had it known the 
facts at the point  of renewal. The answer to these questions determines whether he made  a 
qualifying representation or not.  
I dont think Mr B did take reasonable care. MCE didnt specify  that to be a garage, a 
structure must have  a roof. But I dont think most  consumers would describe a storage space 
like the one Mr B used as a garage. MCE has provided a statement from one of its 
underwriters that shows it would have acted differently had it known the bike wasnt  stored in 
a traditional garage. It would still have offered Mr B insurance, but it would have  done  so at a 
higher price.  
As I think  Mr B made a qualifying misrepresentation, I have to decide whether  he acted 
carelessly, deliberately  or recklessly in doing  so. MCE says he deliberately  misled  it, but I 
dont think the evidence shows that he did. Having  listened to all the calls,  I think Mr B 
seemed to want to give MCE the correct details about other issues. For example, he was 
asked whether he would be using the bike for commuting. Although the answer was no at 
that time,  he didnt just say that. He said he was looking  for work. That gave  the advisor the 
chance to say he needed to let MCE know if the situation changed.
Mr B has told us that in his area,  many  people use the space behind  their homes in the way 
he does. He says they all refer to these  spaces as garages.  MCEs definition  of a garage  
didnt mention a roof, and I dont  think Mr B thought to ask whether not having one over the 
storage space made a difference. So I think his misrepresentation was careless. 
As I dont think Mr B made a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation,  I dont  think  its 
reasonable for MCE to void the policy. But as a result of his careless  misrepresentation, 
MCE has shown that it charged him 20% less than it would otherwise have done.  
I think it would be fair and reasonable for MCE to reinstate the policy and remove  the record 
of the voidance. I think it should  deal with Mr Bs claim, in line with all other policy  terms and 
conditions, and pay him a sum proportionate  to the amount of the premium he should have 
paid. In this case,  that means MCE should pay 80% of the claim.    
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Mr B accepted  them MCE said 
Mr B had acted recklessly, as he only had a locked compound, not a locked structure.
In addition, MCE pointed  out that CIDRA said a consumer  should be presumed  to have the 
knowledge of a reasonable consumer, unless the contrary could  be shown. 
    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN49323463I appreciate that MCE believes  that Mr B deliberately misled it, or that he didnt care whether  
the details he supplied to it were accurate. But its for an insurer  to show that a 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. I dont think MCE has done  that.   
In my view, Mr B didnt  think the details he gave MCE were wrong or misleading at the time.  
As far as he was concerned, the space he stored the bike in was his garage. I have no doubt  
that over time, local descriptions of such spaces had influenced  his view. In my opinion,  Mr B 
should have thought more  carefully about what he was saying.  But I think if hed realised the 
details he was giving may not be right, he would have acted differently. He was careful  in 
calls to MCE about other issues when it struck him that he might  need to clarify  something.      
Ive thought carefully about the points MCE has made, but I remain of the view that Mr B was 
only careless. So I still think  MCE should  remove the voidance and consider the claim in line 
with the proportion of the correct premium Mr B paid.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require MCE Insurance  Company Limited 
to do the following:
remove all records of the voidance  from databases and write  to Mr B to confirm that 
has been done
consider the claim in line with the policys terms and conditions,  and reduce any 
settlement sum to reflect the reduced proportion of premium Mr B was charged
add interest to any sum paid, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date the 
voidance decision was made to the date of settlement
If MCE thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4932346