K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Wirecard Card Solutions  Limited blocked  her prepaid card and didnt
allow her access to the funds in the account.
background
In July 2017 Mrs F received an email to explain  that her prepay account was under review.
The email  explained  that Mrs F needed  to provide photo and address identification to help
with the review.
The activity  on the account leading up to the review was:
date amount paid into account payment method
3 July 2017 £249 pay point
4 July 2017 £249 pay point
5 July 2017 £249 pay point
6 July 2017 £249 pay point
8 July 2017 £249 pay point
14 July 2017 £100 pay point
16 July 2017 £249 pay point
17 July 2017 £249 pay point
18 July 2017 £249 pay point
By 7 September 2017, Mrs F still didnt have access to her account, so she complained  to
the card provider. She explained she had previously  been told the review  would  take
45 days and 49 days had passed since her account had been blocked.
In November 2017, the card provider told her they were going  to close  her account. Mrs F
was concerned because they still werent releasing the money to her. There was £836.83
still in the account.
The card provider closed  Mrs Fs account.  Mrs F continued to try and resolve  the issue  with
the card provider but brought the case to our service to be considered.
Our investigator looked at the case and asked Mrs F if she could provide evidence to show
that she was entitled  to the money  in the account. Mrs F told our investigator  that given the
time that had passed and the fact the money  showed on her online account she threw  away
the paying in slips.  Our investigator felt Wirecard were able to close the account but asked
them to return the funds to Mrs F.
Wirecard disagreed and asked that this case be reviewed  by an ombudsman.  Before issuing 
a decision on the case I reviewed everything  that Wirecard and Mrs F has sent to us. I asked 
both parties to provide additional information to help me reach  a decision on this.
Mrs F provided me with a statement from her bank account abroad.  She said this statement
is evidence that she is entitled to the funds in this account. This bank statement does
provide evidence to show  Mrs F had access to a large sum of money. Mrs F explained that
she withdrew funds from this account  and paid them into the Wirecard account.
I asked Mrs F to provide  further evidence because the withdrawal of cash from this account
Ref: DRN49875542happened some  time before the lodgements to the Wirecard  account.  And also the account
statement was a Euro account so I wanted evidence to show  when she exchanged the funds 
before paying  into the Wirecard  account.
I also asked Mrs F why she had opened  the Wirecard account  using  a UK address but was
communicating with our service using an address abroad.  Mrs F told me that she didnt
feel that it was relevant  for me to know her situation  abroad.
my provisional findings and the parties responses
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to
Mrs F and Wirecard on 25 January 2019. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
legal and regulatory obligations
Wirecard is expected to adopt a set of procedures for administering accounts, making  funds
available, dealing with requests to make payments from accounts and closing accounts. In
doing so, Wirecard is expected to comply  with their legal and regulatory obligations.
Wirecard explained to me they didnt have sufficient evidence to show  that Mrs F was
entitled to the funds  in the account.  Mrs F told our investigator that given the time that had
passed and the fact the money  showed on her online account she threw away the paying in
slips.
I can understand why somebody would throw away the paper slips. But what  Wirecard is
asking to see is proof that she is entitled to the funds that were paid in cash  into the account.
Mrs F hasnt  provided me with sufficient evidence to show that she is entitled to the funds in
the account. I appreciate Mrs F has sent me a bank  statement but this statement wasnt
sufficient to show that the funds held in Wirecard belong to her.
Wirecard have legal and regulatory obligation and the FCA sets out guidance  for them  to
ensure that they carry out their due diligence and know  your customer  (KYC) checks. On this
occasion, Im satisfied that Wirecard  have  acted in line with their obligations and I cant  say
they have made an error.
I do believe it wouldve been helpful for Wirecard to explain to Mrs F in July that they may
require her to provide  proof of entitlement to the funds in the account.  But, I dont think it is
unreasonable for Wirecard to ask for additional  information to prove that Mrs F is entitled to
the funds in her account.
access to funds
Im mindful that Mrs F hasnt received access to funds that were in her account when the
account has closed.  Im satisfied that in Mrs Fs individual circumstances Wirecard is entitled
to hold the funds even  though the account  has closed.
Given my conclusions, although I acknowledge Mrs F believes that she hasnt been treated
fairly. I dont  consider  that theres  any basis on which I can fairly and reasonably require
Wirecard to release the funds to her or take any other action. Unless Mrs F can provide
sufficient evidence to show that she is entitled  to the cash  payments which were lodged  into
the account I cannot ask Wirecard  to do anything else.
Subject to any further representations by Mrs F or Wirecard, my provisional decision was
Ref: DRN49875543that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint.
response to my provisional  findings
Neither Wirecard  nor Mrs F made  any further  comment.
my findings
Having given both parties the opportunity to respond  to my provisional  findings, Ive
reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given there has been no response  to my provisional findings, Ive not been offered any
reason to reach a different conclusion.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mrs Fs complaint against  Wirecard Card Solutions Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Tracey Nugent
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4987554