K820x#14complaint
Ms K has complained about  U K Insurance Limiteds  (UKI) service when setting up a motor 
insurance policy.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
background
Ms K had a policy with another  insurer, which Ill refer to as B, for her main  car. At the same 
time she held a policy with UKI for her second car. She applied online for another  UKI policy  
for her main car and received a quote.  She rang UKI to discuss the policys features. It said 
that, after applying  her nine years  no claims  discount (NCD), her premium would be around 
£430. She didn't complete  the purchase of the policy during that call. She later rang UKI 
again to buy the policy. When UKI ran through the details  it told her that as she was already 
using her NCD on her second  car which UKI insured, she couldn't  also use it on her main 
car. And as a result  her premium would rise to around £640.  Ms K had already  cancelled her 
existing policy for her main car with B, so she eventually accepted UKIs policy.
Ms K thought UKI had misadvised her during the first call and complained.  It acknowledged 
that some  of its customer service wasn't up to the standards it would hope to achieve, so it 
offered her £30 compensation  for that, but it didn't think  it had misadvised her.
Ms K brought her complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision on 14 August 2019. For 
ease I've copied my provisional findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely I won't uphold  
it.
Its a well-established  principle in motor insurance that NCD can only be used on one policy  
at time. And I don't find that unfair. Although  its clear that Ms K wasn't aware  of that when 
she first rang UKI. 
Ms Ks complaint is essentially that UKI didn't tell her she could only use NCD on one car at 
a time during her first call with it. So it applied her nine years  NCD when providing a quote.  
And because she thought  shed be better  off with UKIs policy for her main  car she cancelled  
her existing policy with B. But during a second  call she found out that her premium  with UKI 
would be considerably more than it had previously quoted because it wouldn't  benefit from 
her NCD  which she was already using on her second car which was insured with UKI. 
It appears that, before Ms K took a second  policy with UKI, she might have been using her 
nine years NCD on two separate policies at the same time. First for her main  car insured 
with B and also for her second  car insured with UKI. Generally thats  not something that 
insurers will allow.  But it seems  that either UKI or her other insurer didn't realise Ms K was 
already using her NCD on another policy. So its likely shes benefited from that mistake.  
Its worth  noting that Ms K initially applied for the quote online.  And when running  through  
the online questions  UKI gives its customers the option of clicking  on a button that will 
provide helpful  information about NCD. Had Ms K clicked on that button she would have 
read that NCD can only be used on one car at a time. But it appears she didn't do so.
Ref: DRN45985392As I've said above, it seems that Ms K wasn't  aware that she couldn't use her NCD on more 
than one policy at a time. So Ive listened  to the relevant calls to decide if UKI misled Ms K. 
During the first call Ms K twice told UKI that she had nine years  NCB. She didn't give any 
indication that it was being used  on another car already insured by UKI. And she gave UKI 
the impression  that she would be cancelling  a policy with B, and bringing the NCD being 
used on that policy to the new policy she was applying for with UKI. And as NCD can only be 
used once, UKI can't have known  that Ms K was also using her NCD  on her second  car 
insured with it. 
Also when discussing the high premium that she was paying for her existing UKI policy  for 
her second  car, she said the car:
is obviously  not on my nine years  lets put it that way
In other  words she gave  the impression that her other car wasn't benefiting from her nine 
years NCD.  But that wasn't  the case, that policy did have the benefit of her nine years NCD. 
So having  listened to the call very carefully, I don't  think she gave UKI any reason to 
question whether the NCD was also being  used for a second car. If she had I think it would 
have told her that she couldn't use the NCD on more than one policy at a time and quoted  
the premium appropriately.
Further, Ms K didn't actually complete the purchase  of the policy  during the first call. If she 
had, when it came to the point of validating the NCD details UKI would have  told her that she 
couldn't use the NCD on two cars at the same  time,  as happened during the second call. 
And UKI would then have quoted her for a premium without the NCD. I don't think  it was 
UKIs fault that the call didn't reach  that stage. 
I think its also worth pointing  out that Ms K was under no obligation to cancel her other  
policy with B before  she bought the new policy with UKI. She didn't want  the policy  to begin 
immediately, so she had time to make sure that the UKI policy  was in place before cancelling  
her policy with B. I don't think anything UKI said during the first call forced her hand to cancel  
her existing policy. If shed have rung UKI first, before cancelling  the policy with B, she would 
have realised that she wouldn't have the benefit  of the NCD on this policy and she could 
have decided whether or not to cancel her existing policy  with B. And as I've said above, that 
she chose to cancel  her other policy first was her own choice and isn't something UKI 
advised her to do.
It follows that I don't think UKI did anything wrong  when  discussing the policy with Ms K.
developments
UKI accepted my provisional decision. Ms K said that she wasn't happy with it but said that 
she had nothing further to add save for commenting that she feels  it was influenced by our 
funding model.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Ref: DRN45985393I understand Ms K wasn't happy with my provisional  decision. But Im unsure why she would 
think that my reasoning,  as set out in my provisional  decision, was influenced by our funding 
model. But beyond  making that comment she hasnt given any explanation  for why she didn't 
agree with my provisional findings or provided any argument for why my provisional  decision 
might have been wrong. So, in the absence of any reasons to alter my provisional findings, I 
see no reason to change them.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4598539