K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about Mr Is Halifax-branded mortgage with Bank  of Scotland  plc. Hes 
unhappy that Halifax accepted a payment from a third party  onto the mortgage account which 
reduced the arrears  hed allowed to build up in anticipation of the house  being repossessed.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding  the figures involved. No discourtesys intended 
by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, 
it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material  to the 
outcome of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn. Another reason I have left out a 
lot of the detail  is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumers  when  my decision is published.
The circumstances of this complaint, briefly,  are that Mr I is going  through  a divorce. The 
Halifax mortgage is in his sole name,  but the property its secured on is occupied by his wife, 
not him. Mr I apparently  wanted the house  re-possessed. During a phone  conversation  with 
Halifax in February 2019, he was informed  that the bank would only consider  possession 
proceedings if arrears  built up on the mortgage. Mr I stopped making payments.
Arrears did accrue, up to around  £3,200,  but then Halifax received  a payment of around  
£1,600. Mr I queried this, initially  saying he didnt  know who had made  it and that he 
suspected it was fraudulent. It was later established that Mr Is wife had made  the payment, 
and it meant  that Halifax didnt consider  it necessary to begin  legal  action for recovery.  
Mr I complained that Halifax was favouring his wife over him. Halifax  rejected the complaint, 
and it was referred to us. No further recovery action  has been considered whilst the case  
has been with us. Our investigator didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong, but Mr I 
wishes to continue with his complaint. So its come to me to review and decide what a fair 
outcome should  be.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
news for Mr I; I dont  think Halifax has done anything wrong either.
The complaints simpler than its been  made  to look. A lender  is free to choose  whether to 
accept mortgage  payments  from someone  other than the borrower.  Here,  the person who 
made the payment Mr I is complaining  about lives in the mortgaged  property. 
Its not me for me to decide here if Mr Is wife has any legal interest  in the property; thats for 
a court  to decide in matrimonial  proceedings, assuming that hasnt already happened.  But 
on a practical level, its fair to conclude she had (at the time she paid the money  to Halifax) a 
general interest in what happened to the property, because  it was her home. That being  the 
case, I dont think  it was inappropriate of Halifax to accept  the payment; nor do I consider it 
acted unfairly towards Mr I by refusing to return it.
Ref: DRN41258652I realise how strongly Mr I feels,  but I dont believe Halifax is interfering  in his matrimonial 
dispute. In my view,  its doing the exact  opposite. By accepting  the payment  and not taking 
legal  action for possession of the property where his wife lives, it seems  to me that Halifax  is 
trying to ensure  that the eventual fate of the property will be decided where it should be 
decided; in court in matrimonial proceedings between Mr I and his wife.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of this 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.  
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4125865