K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained  about his contents insurer Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited (LV) in relation  to an additional premium  it charged him shortly after his new policy  
with it had been agreed. LV said it had discovered undisclosed claims that changed the risk.
background
Mr B works as an insurance broker. He arranged his own home  insurance;  with LV for his 
contents cover and with another  insurer for his buildings cover. When  the contents policy 
was due to renew  in 2017 Mr B knew he had to arrange a new policy, rather than renew the 
existing one. This was due to a change  LV had made in how it sold policies. Mr B still 
wanted to cover his contents with LV though so he applied to it via a price aggregator 
website.
Mr B selected that he wanted a contents only policy. He was asked how many  claim free 
years hed had cover  for in respect of contents.  He was then asked:
Have you or anyone living at the property made any home insurance claims or suffered any 
losses in the last five years?
Mr B said yes. He was then asked  to give details and was given the option of telling LV 
about contents and/or buildings claims or losses. Mr B told it of a contents claim hed made 
for theft in January 2016. He didnt  tell it of the linked buildings claim hed made at the same 
time. Or of a buildings claim  hed made  in 2015 for accidental damage to his bath.
A welcome letter was sent to Mr B on 21 December 2017  and cover  was due to start on
23 December. On 29 December 2017  LV wrote to Mr B. It said it had checked the industry 
claim database and found the two buildings claims that Mr B hadnt told it about. It said those 
claims changed the risk he presented so it had added them to his application which  had 
generated an additional premium of £118.08  (the original price for cover was £218.69). LV 
said he should call and pay it this sum.  It said if he chose to cancel his policy,  it would
charge him £32.00.
Mr B didnt  want to cancel  the policy so he paid the extra premium. But he wasnt happy 
about paying it and complained. He said the theft incident had been one claim, not two. And 
he also argued that buildings claims werent  relevant  to the application  in question because  
he was only applying for contents cover (although in the letter he sent LV, he refers to only 
applying for buildings cover meaning contents claims were irrelevant). He said he was aware 
that other insurers dont see claims made under other types of cover  as material  so he didnt 
think it was fair that LV was viewing  them  as something he should have disclosed. LV wasnt 
prepared to change its positon so Mr B complained to us.
Ref: DRN42217202In making his complaint  to us Mr B said hed disclosed the theft incident to LV and it knew  of 
both the buildings and contents claims that had been made  in that respect. He said the claim 
for the bath, which was made under the buildings section of cover for which  he hadnt been 
applying, couldnt  possibly be material to the contents cover.  He said if a landlord and tenant 
made separate building  and contents  claims under  their respective covers,  neither would 
have to disclose all the claims that had occurred at the property. He said LV expecting  to 
receive details about both types  of claim was particularly unfair because not all insurers 
expect to receive the same level of detail, which means the general  public is getting  mixed 
messages about  what is important from the mainstream insurers.  The differing attitudes  in 
this case, Mr B said, had allowed him to become confused. Mr B said this was about  the 
principle of the matter,  not the money and that there should be a ruling about what  needed  to 
be declared.
Our investigator felt that as the application had sometimes used different phrasing, it hadnt  
been specific or clear  enough to let Mr B know that LV wanted to know  about buildings and 
contents claims. Therefore she felt Mr B had taken reasonable  care in answering the 
question and it wasnt fair for LV to accuse him of not disclosing everything to it. She 
explained that this also meant she felt its application  of an additional premium had been  
unfair and unreasonable.
LV thought  it had been clear about wanting to know about both types of home insurance 
claims. It asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I considered the matter  and issued a provisional decision because  my views  differed from 
those expressed by our investigator.  Essentially  I felt that Mr B had given LV grounds to 
avoid his policy so it had acted fairly by choosing not to take this action. But I felt that its 
alternative options hadnt been entirely  reasonable. However, I didnt think  Mr B had suffered  
as result so I didnt think the complaint  should  be upheld. 
In response to my provisional decision,  LV said it had nothing  to add. Mr B remained 
dissatisfied. Ive considered  Mr Bs response  but it hasnt changed my mind.  My provisional 
findings, which now form part of this final decision,  are set out below and include Mr Bs 
responses and my consideration of the points he has raised.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I said provisionally:
Im unsure why Mr B, particularly given his profession,  is unclear or confused  in any way. 
Insurance is a risk based industry.  And risk is a subjective issue.  Naturally each insurer 
views risk differently. For example; some may offer cover for people  with convictions  - some  
may not; some may offer cover where five claims have been  made   some where no more  
than two have  been. And each insurer communicates what  to it is important by the questions  
it asks the prospective  policyholder when an application is made. And the legislation  (which 
Ive looked at in more detail below) sets out the framework for all this activity.
Ref: DRN42217203What risks an insurer chooses to accept  or refuse is a matter of its commercial  judgement. 
As long as it treats  all of its applicants the same we wont  generally interfere. We arent the 
regulator and we dont  make  awards with a view to changing  how the insurer carries out its 
business.
But in an effort to respond to Mr Bs concerns about how his claim for his bath could have 
been of interest  to LV, I think its worth noting  that both types  of cover are strongly linked and 
a claim on one might well lead to a claim on the other. So, if the buildings are damaged,  that 
may create the potential for damage  to be caused  to the contents  as well. Therefore, it isnt 
necessarily unreasonable to envisage that an insurer might  take the view that prospective 
policyholders, who make buildings claims, are more likely (than those that dont make them) 
to make contents claims.
I havent seen anything that makes  me think LV knew  at the outset about the buildings claim 
for theft.
The example  Mr B has raised, regarding claims made by a landlord and a tenant,  isnt a 
useful comparison against the situation he is in  not only does it involve different  
policyholders, it relates to different types  of insurance because landlords will typically  have a 
specialist policy. Regardless  though,  what is always of key importance is that the applicant  
for the policy,  reading  the questions set by the insurer, should take reasonable care to 
answer the question  asked  of them.
So as LV wanted to know about  buildings claims but Mr B didnt tell it about  two that hed 
made, I need  to consider whether what LV did when  it found out about these claims was fair 
and reasonable.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (the Act) requires a 
prospective policyholder  to take reasonable care to not make any misrepresentation to the 
insurer when applying  for cover. If a misrepresentation  is made  which is a qualifying  
misrepresentation then the insurer will be allowed to take certain action.
If reasonable care wasnt taken by the prospective  policyholder and the insurer  can show  
that if it had been, it wouldnt have entered in to the insurance contract, or it would but only 
on different terms, the misrepresentation  made  is seen to have been  a qualifying one. 
Whether the prospective  policyholder took reasonable care will depend largely on whether 
the question asked by the insurer was clear and/or specific enough to elicit from the reader 
what it really was the insurer wanted to know.
I think LVs question  was clear and specific.  LV often during the application asked about 
contents claims/items and/or cover, occasionally it asked about  buildings claims and in the 
instance of the question at the heart of this complaint, about home insurance. Im satisfied 
that this was a clear  and specific use of a term that connotes both types of cover and that 
indicated a wider  answer  was required  than one that just focused on contents  claims. Plus,  
when asked to give details of previous claims, headings for both contents and buildings  
claims were  present. Clearly then LV wanted  to be told about both types  of claim.
In response to my provisional decision Mr B said what LV wanted  isnt clear, and, in any 
event, it should  only ask for claims relating  to the policy cover being taken to be disclosed.  
Ref: DRN42217204The lack of clarity Mr B has referred  to here is regarding a conversation he had with LV after 
it had asked him for further payment. I remain of the view that the question  asked  as a part 
of the application process  was clear. I also remain of the view that it is up to the individual  
insurer to decide  what risks are important  to it which then drives  the questions asked of the 
prospective policyholders.
My provisional findings continued:
Mr B says he thought LV wanted  to only know about contents. Given Ive explained that
I think the question in this respect was clear,  I think understanding it differently means  that 
Mr B didnt  take reasonable care. I understand  that Mr B is aware of other insurers that only 
want to know  about claims which are of the same type as that being applied  for, in this case 
contents claims. But his knowledge  of that doesnt change  the fact that LV clearly asked to 
be told about both contents and buildings  claims. If Mr B made up his own mind about what  
he thought LV likely  wanted to know based on what he was aware of in respect of other 
insurers, that also means he didnt take reasonable care to answer  LVs question 
accurately.
Mr B reiterated that his current  buildings insurer isnt concerned about contents claims. He 
feels the public shouldnt be penalised for claims made for different types of cover.
Ive explained  that decisions regarding risks are seen as matters of commercial  judgement  
for each  individual insurer. There is no industry regulation  or rule stating that every  insurer 
must see risk in the same  way or which states that they are restricted  in their consideration 
in this respect to only taking claims regarding the same type of policy  into account. And Ive 
explained why claims across buildings and contents policies might be seen to have 
relevance to a buildings or contents only provider.  Mr Bs comments in response dont 
change my view on any of this. 
My provisional findings continued:  
LV has shown me its underwriting criteria. This shows  that if it had been told of two theft 
claims and one accidental  damage  claim (as Mr B had made)  it wouldnt have offered him 
cover.
As Mr B didnt in my view, take reasonable care, and LV has shown it would have done 
something different  if he had provided the correct information, Im satisfied a qualifying  
misrepresentation occurred. Given what LV has shown me about what  it would have done, 
that means it could have  taken action to avoid Mr Bs policy. But it didnt. Avoidance  can 
have far reaching repercussions for policyholders though. So, on the face of it at least,  I think 
LV did act fairly when  it chose to not avoid the cover.
Instead of avoiding the policy though LV re-priced the cover,  taking into account what it 
would charge others with a similar  claims history where avoidance wasnt  an issue. And it 
gave Mr B the choice  of accepting the price increase or cancelling  the cover by payment  of a 
fee. Therefore, Mr B was put in the position, whichever option he chose, of having to pay LV 
more money; £118.08 to stay with LV, or £32.00 to cancel. Given  the allowances  set out in 
the Act, this service may find it unfair for an insurer to charge a cancellation  fee in this type 
of situation.
Ref: DRN42217205However, in any complaint I assess, before I make  any award, I have to be satisfied that any 
unfair act affected the policyholder in some negative way. Im not persuaded that was the 
case here.
Here, Mr B has explained how when he arranged  this policy  it was important to him to stay 
with LV. Hes also said the price charged  by LV for staying with it wasnt  his main concern. 
And Mr B, of his own free will, chose to pay the higher sum and stay with LV whilst also 
complaining about it, rather than paying  less and moving away  whilst still making a 
complaint. So Im satisfied  that the most important thing for Mr B was to be able to stay with 
LV. Which means  Im also satisfied that he wouldnt have sought to cancel the cover even if 
LV had told him he could do so free of charge. Therefore, even though LV technically failed 
Mr B by not offering him a free cancellation,  he hasnt suffered as a result  of that failure.
Having taken everything into account, I think LV acted fairly and reasonably when it offered 
to keep providing Mr Bs cover in exchange  for an additional fee. Im not minded to make  it 
refund that to Mr B or to make any finding in respect  of what LV should or shouldnt ask 
prospective policyholders.
As I explained at the end of the background section, Mr Bs response to my provisional 
decision hasnt changed my view. Having considered  everything  Im satisfied that Mr Bs 
complaint shouldnt be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Liverpool Victoria  Insurance  
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4221720