K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Intrum UK Limited  recorded a default on his credit  file for an incorrect 
date. He says Intrum should  compensate  him for loss of reputation and restricting his ability 
to obtain credit. 
background
Mr S held a credit card account with a company  Ill refer to as C. Mr Ss account fell into 
arrears and he was sent default notices by C in November  2008 and January 2009. 
The account  was then transferred to a new provider (N) in August 2011.  In March 2013  N 
issued Mr S another default notice.  In  August 2013 the account was defaulted and sold to 
Intrum with an outstanding balance of £3,597.10.
Around July 2018, Mr S says he checked his credit file and noticed that the recorded default 
date of the account was showing as August 2013.  He didnt think  this was correct so he 
asked Intrum to amend  it. He said the account  had been defaulted  in January 2009 and that 
accounts can only be defaulted once. He said this default should have been removed from 
his credit file in 2015, as defaults  should  appear on an individuals  credit  file for six years. He 
says he didnt receive a reply, so chased Intrum  for a response in August 2018.  
Intrum said it had sent Mr S a response in July 2018. Intrums reply  explained  N had said the 
account had been defaulted in August 2013 and it acted in good faith when recording the 
default on his credit file. But it asked for any evidence he could provide to show  the account  
had been defaulted in 2009. It also explained it had contacted N to investigate further and if 
it was shown the default date was recorded incorrectly it would be amended.   
Unhappy with the response Mr S raised  a complaint to Intrum he said:  
 
He never  received  Intrums response of 25 July 2018 and a copy should have been 
forwarded with its response in August  2018
when N took over the account the original default notice had not been  satisfied  and
he was on a debt management plan
the default notice from N is dated 27 March 2013  which is five months from the
default date reported on his credit  file
Intrum was in breach  of the Data Protection Act by reporting incorrect  information  on 
his credit file 
he should be compensated  £100  per day for each day the incorrect default date had 
been recorded on his credit file
Intrum provided Mr S a copy  of the 25 July 2018  email and apologised that it hadnt  reached 
him. It said this was because of an error  in the email address it was sent to. And although  its 
response of 7 August 2018  explained what was in the email it should  have attached  a copy  
but didnt.
Intrum went on to say its standard industry  practice to act in good faith when registering a 
default date provided by the original creditor and it didnt  agree it had breached  the 
Data Protection Act. But it did say it had passed  on Mr Ss concerns to N. Unhappy  with 
Intrums response Mr S referred his complaint to our service  for investigation. 
Ref: DRN43009732N responded to Mr S in November 2018  and explained it sold the account to Intrum  in 
August 2013 and its process is to record a default  when accounts  are sold. It confirmed that 
it hadnt provided a default notice in August 2013.  But concluded that it the default  was fairly 
applied. It said it couldnt now remove the default and Mr S would need to contact Intrum  if 
he thought it should be. It offered him £25 compensation to put things right. Mr S was also 
unhappy with Ns response and referred this as a complaint to our service which has been  
investigated as a separate complaint.  
The adjudicator who investigated Mr Ss complaint concluded his account had been fairly 
defaulted in August 2013 and it hadnt  been defaulted previously. So he said Intrum  hadnt 
recorded any incorrect information on Mr Ss credit  file and didnt need  to take any further 
steps to resolve  his complaint.
Intrum accepted his assessment. But Mr S didnt,  he made a number of points  in response, 
in summary he said:
N hadnt defaulted the account fairly or followed the correct  processed when doing 
so;
he hadnt been provided  with a copy of the notice  of correction sent in September 
2016; 
the adjudicator  hadnt addressed the customer service issues Mr S had experienced.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Intrum has treated 
Mr S fairly so Im not asking it to do anymore. Ive explained why in more  detail below.
Mr S has a separate  complaint  about  whether it was fair for N to record  the default when it 
did. And the issues Mr S has raised  in relation to this will be dealt with under a separate  
decision. For my decision  on this complaint Im only reviewing and addressing Mr Ss 
complaint points about Intrums actions. 
I think its reasonable Intrum to have relied on the information it was provided by N when it 
purchased the debt,  unless its provided  with evidence which shows  this information is 
incorrect.
Ive considered Mr Ss complaint about N and issued a separate  decision on that. In that 
decision Ive concluded  that N treated Mr S fairly in defaulting the account when it did.  As 
Intrum was responsible  for continuing  to report that information to credit reference agencies  
once it purchased the debt, it didnt act unfairly by not amending Mr Ss credit file. 
When Mr S contacted Intrum about  this issue it should have responded to the correct 
address initially, but I can see once Mr S chased  a response it provided him an answer and 
explained it would amend  his credit file if it received evidence that what  was recorded was 
incorrect. I think Intrums response  was reasonable and set out clearly the next steps for 
Mr S. Although it was sent to the wrong  email  address Intrum apologised to Mr S and later 
provided him a copy. So I dont think this warrants any compensation payment.
Ref: DRN43009733Ns response to Mr S explained why the account  was defaulted in August 2013 and why it 
hadnt been before then. I dont think Mr S had provided any information  which  showed that 
the default date should  be amended.  Intrum had an obligation to ensure the recorded default  
date was accurate  and based on the information it had received, I think it was. So, I think  it 
was reasonable  for Intrum to conclude  the default  had been applied fairly and not make any 
changes to Mr Ss credit  file. 
Intrum didnt send  the corrective notice so I dont think it should have a copy but its recorded 
on its notes that N would be sending one to Mr S. Because  the corrective notice wasnt  sent 
by Intrum I dont think its responsible for any complaints Mr S has about the corrective  
notice. 
my final decision
I think Intrum UK Limited has treated Mr S fairly,  so I dont uphold his complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020
Chris Bick
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4300973