K822xcomplaint
Mr T and Miss R say that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them  a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  
policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in January 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr T and Miss Rs 
complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. HSBC  UK Bank Plc didnt send any further information. Mr T and Miss R replied with 
some additional  comments  for me to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  Although Ive considered the additional comments, Ive not received any new 
evidence, so Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision,  for the same 
reasons. 
Due to the time thats passed since the sale, not all of the paperwork completed is now available.     
Ive to decide what I think is more likely than not to have happened  based on the available 
evidence. Im not saying  that Mr T and Miss Rs recollections are incorrect,  Im simply saying  that, 
based on the available evidence, I havent  seen strong evidence  to support what theyve  said.
what the business needs  to do
HSBC UK Bank Plc has to pay back to Mr T and Miss R any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. HSBC UK Bank Plc should also pay back  
to Mr T and Miss R any extra interest  she paid because of that.
HSBC UK Bank Plc should  pay back to Mr T and Miss R the extra they paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI.    
HSBC UK Bank Plc should  also pay Mr T and Miss R 8%* simple  interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr T and Miss R can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr T and Miss Rs 
complaint. 
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr T and Miss R, if it hasnt already  done so,  
any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Miss R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Ref: DRN42811572Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN42811573copy  of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr T and Miss R say HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold them the PPI. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  are in agreement that this sale took place during a meeting and that                 
HSBC UK Bank Plc made a recommendation to take PPI.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr T and Miss Rs case.
I currently dont think that the policy was mis-sold because:
I think its more likely than not that HSBC UK Bank Plc made it clear that Mr T and 
Miss R didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why they may not remember this.
I say this because  Ive seen some  of the paperwork from the sale,  including a copy of 
the Personal Financial  Planning Review that has an interview  date of 12 April 2002. 
This document is a summary of what was discussed  regarding Mr T and Miss Rs 
personal financial planning circumstances.
In this document, on page 3, it states You have only decided  to take out Mortgage  
Repayment Protector (PPI) and not Income Protection. The PPI was free for the 
first six months. At the bottom of this document theres a declaration section. 
Ive only seen a copy of this document  so its unsigned. But, Ive also seen a letter 
dated 16 April 2002 in which its outlined again what has been recommended.  
Therefore I think that its more likely  than not that Mr T and Miss R signed  the 
declaration on 12 April 2002. Based on this document,  it seems  that Mr T and Miss R 
declined income  protection.  
Ive also considered a separate  Mortgage  Repayment Protector application  form. It 
outlines the level of benefit thats been selected  and Mr T and Miss R have signed  
separately underneath a declaration that includes the wording ...and confirm that I 
am/we are eligible and wish to take out the cover.
Ive carefully considered  all of this alongside  what Mr T and Miss R have said about  
the PPI being  forced upon  them, and being told that their application  would be 
looked upon more favourably if they took out PPI. 
Ive also noted  what Mr T and Miss R have  said about their word against the 
businesses. But as I wasnt present at the sale, Ive to come  to my decision based on 
the available  evidence and decide what  I think  is more likely than not to have 
happened. As this was a sale where HSBC UK Bank Plc were  making a 
Ref: DRN42811574recommendation to take PPI, its possible that the adviser said that they should take 
PPI, but this is very different  to the adviser  saying that Mr T and Miss R had to take 
PPI. 
Based on everything  Ive seen, it seems that a discussion  took place about PPI and 
Mr T and Miss Rs needs. It then seems that a recommendation was made and they 
accepted the recommendation  to take PPI. I dont  know what  was said verbally,  apart 
from the notes about the discussion recorded in the Personal Financial Planning 
Review document. 
I simply havent seen any supporting evidence that PPI was forced upon Mr T and 
Miss R or that they were  told that their application would be looked upon more  
favourably if they took PPI. 
Ive also seen a separate  direct debit mandate form thats been signed  by Mr T to 
agree to the PPI being set up. In my opinion, this again suggests that PPI was 
presented as separate to the mortgage as it required a separate direct debit form to 
be completed in order  for it to be set up. 
HSBC UK Bank Plc recommended the PPI to Mr T and Miss R so it had to check  that 
the PPI was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at 
the time,  I think that it was. For example they werent affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for the 
cover.  
Its possible the information HSBC UK Bank  Plc gave Mr T and Miss R about  the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means HSBC UK Bank  Plc doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr T and Miss R.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr T and Miss R 
because: 
When the policy was sold, HSBC UK Bank Plc expected  to get a high level of 
commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have 
told Mr T and Miss R about that. Because HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt tell Mr T and 
Miss R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC UK Bank  Plc has basically offered to pay back the amount  of 
commission and profit share  that was above  50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr T and Miss R have said - including what  theyve said about 
the PPI being  removed  at a later date without hesitation.  What  I can safely say is that, as    
Mr T and Miss R paid for this policy monthly, by a separate direct debit, it could be cancelled 
at any time without losing  out financially  as Mr T and Miss R have  said they did when 
taking out a fixed rate mortgage  at a later date.
  
Ref: DRN42811575Ive also considered Mr T and Miss Rs comments about being  in secure jobs and having 
adequate protection. But nobody can accurately predict what  the future will bring  and having 
the PPI policy  would help protect their financial position if they were  to experience an 
unexpected change in circumstances - such as being made unemployed. Ive also noted  that 
Mr T and Miss R worked  for the same  employer. I agree with Mr T and Miss Rs comments  
that there  may well have  been a low risk of them losing their jobs, but I dont agree that there 
was no risk. 
This PPI policy also would have paid out for longer  than the period of full sick pay that Mr T 
and Miss R would  have received. Having this PPI policy would also mean that they wouldnt 
have to use their savings, allowing them the option  to keep them  intact for future use. 
Although I know that this wont  be the outcome that Mr T and Miss R wanted, these points 
dont change my decision  and I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint. 
what the business needs  to do
HSBC UK Bank Plc has to pay back to Mr T and Miss R any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. HSBC UK Bank Plc should also pay back  
to Mr T and Miss R any extra interest  she paid because of that.
HSBC UK Bank Plc should  pay back to Mr T and Miss R the extra they paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. HSBC 
UK Bank Plc should also pay Mr T and Miss R 8%* simple interest on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr T and Miss R can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I currently dont intend to uphold Mr T and Miss Rs complaint but   
I do intend to tell HSBC UK Bank  Plc to pay back to Mr T and Miss R any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium -  if it hasnt already done so. 
If either  Mr T and Miss R or HSBC UK Bank  Plc have anything  further  to add, they should  do so by 
15 February 2019, Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4281157