K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained that Tesco  Personal  Finance PLC failed to give him reasonable notice
that his car insurance policy had lapsed when it told him the year before that it would
automatically renew.
For ease Ill refer to the business as Tesco in my decision.
background
Mr P had bought  his car insurance policy through the broker,  Tesco for 15 years.  At renewal
in August 2017, Tesco discussed Mr Ps renewal  with him and during this call it said it would
automatically renew his policy the following year.
However, Tesco didnt  renew Mr Ps policy automatically in August 2018. It emailed Mr P a
few times before  his policy lapsed.
In January 2019 Mr P called Tesco to report an incident and to make a claim. But Tesco told
Mr P that he hadnt been insured since August 2018  as his policy had lapsed. Mr P
complained.
Tesco said that although it was its error that led to Mr Ps policy  not automatically renewing,
it believed it had done enough  to tell him his policy would lapse. Mr P didnt reply to its
emails. It didnt  collect any premiums since August 2018 and it didnt send him a certificate
of insurance. So Tesco said it wasnt responsible  for Mr P not being insured.
Our investigator thought Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. She thought  Tesco hadnt done
enough to give Mr P reasonable notice. She agreed  with Mr P that Tesco appeared to have
changed how clearly  it identified itself in its emails  between  August 2017 and August 2018.
The investigator thought Tesco should have tried to call Mr P or write to him too. So she
recommended Tesco  reinstate  the policy it offered to Mr P in August 2018 and that his claim
should be dealt  with under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr P accepted the investigators view.
Tesco didnt  agree. In summary it said it sent Mr P an email in August 2017  because it
couldnt automatically renew his policy then. He called Tesco on receipt of that email. So this
shows that emailing  Mr P was a suitable way of telling  Mr P and had worked before.
It said Mr P had another car insurance policy through Tesco  and in December 2017 it had
emailed him to contact  it about that policy  which Mr P replied to. It said the first line of its
address in its emails  is clear and includes its company logo and the title Car Insurance.
Tesco said Mr Ps car insurance  renewed  at the same time every year, and it was his
responsibility to check  he was insured.
In the meantime Mr P has provided  proof of his financial losses: receipts  for the repairs to his
car and car hire during  this period. The investigator sent these to Tesco  to consider.
Tesco remained of the view that it acted reasonably.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 September 2019. Because Tesco  isnt the insurer  and 
there was no insurance in place  I couldnt  ask Tesco to reinstate and backdate insurance 
for Mr P. This is something at the discretion of an insurer. And Mr Ps complaint  is about the 
actions of the broker, Tesco.
Ref: DRN45306782So I thought  Tesco should reimburse  Mr P for the costs of the repairs, hire car use and pay 
compensation of £750. I thought it was reasonable for Tesco  to deduct the premium Mr P 
would have paid to the insurer   had his policy renewed. And I thought it fair to also deduct 
the excess. 
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.  So the case has been returned to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties accepted  my provisional 
decision, my final decision  is along the same lines.
When Tesco  renewed Mr Ps policy in August 2017,  it told him in a call that it would
automatically renew it the following  year.  In a letter dated 14 August 2017  Tesco  wrote:
As your policy  is set to renew  automatically,  you won't need to do anything as we'll
automatically renew your policy and all of your chosen add on products. If we don't
hear from you, we'll automatically take payment from the card/account  details you
most recently provided.
Tesco admits that it didnt automatically  renew  Mr Ps policy because it removed the auto
renew option from Mr Ps account in August 2017 in error.
Mr P provided a screenshot of the emails he received from Tesco  in 2018  and of the
emails he received from Tesco in 2017. This shows that the emails  he received from Tesco
in 2018 were titled no reply and didnt reveal  the company name as it appeared when sent
to Mr P. However in 2017 the emails were clearly from either Tesco Bank or Tesco  Car
Insurance. Mr P explained that hed previously been the victim  of a scam and followed
police advice not to open any suspicious emails or ones that didnt clearly identify the
sender.
The way in which Tesco  titled its emails  to Mr P appear to have changed between 2017 and
2018. So I can understand  why Mr P didnt open  the no reply emails  at the time in light of
his recent  experience and the advice  he was given.
I appreciate that no premiums had been  collected  for five months until Mr P reported the
incident. And Tesco said that if Mr P had concerns about opening emails, it believes he
should have contacted it to check, especially as Tesco would expect him to be aware  of his
renewal date.
But I think Tesco should have  done more to contact  Mr P either by calling him or writing to
him in addition to its emails  as he believed his policy would automatically renew and that
he didnt need  to take any action.  And this is what had happened for 15 years before. Mr P
paid for his policy for 15 years through Tesco and so - from his history  - I think its very
unlikely that Mr P knowingly chose to drive his car uninsured.
So I think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. I dont think  Tesco  gave reasonable notice to
Mr P that his policy wasnt going to automatically renew in August 2018. Mr P says that he
paid for the repairs to his car and I understand there  were no other  parties involved in the
incident in January 2019.
Ref: DRN45306783The investigator recommended  that Tesco reinstate Mr Ps policy  from August 2018 and for
his claim to be dealt with under the remaining terms and conditions.
But because Tesco isnt the insurer  and there was no insurance in place   I cant  ask
Tesco to reinstate and backdate insurance  for Mr P. This is something at the discretion of an
insurer. And Mr Ps complaint is about  the actions of the broker,  Tesco.
So I think the fairest outcome is for Tesco to reimburse Mr P for the costs of the repairs and
the hire car he paid for  subject to proof of payment. Mr P has provided an invoice for the
repairs and for car hire from 2 February 2019  to 25 February 2019. For two days  Mr P hired
a premium car. But for the remainder  he hired  a small hatchback.  So Im satisfied overall  that
Mr P tried to mitigate his costs. Mr P was entitled  to use of a courtesy car for the duration of
the repairs under the policy he previously held through the broker, Tesco. Tesco can deduct
the premium it quoted  as a renewal premium  for Mr P in August 2018 and the excess  for
accidental damage  quoted too from the settlement  it pays  Mr P.
I understand that Mr P has since sold his car. Its industry standard  that if a claim is made
under a policy, the full years premium is due. This term applies even if the policy is
cancelled before the end of the year.  This is because the insurance contract is for a year 
and because a claim has been made the obligations  under the contract have been met. So I
dont think the fact that Mr P has since sold his car makes a difference.
I think Tescos  failings  have caused Mr P considerable worry and inconvenience. Hes had
the upset of finding out he was driving  uninsured and the worry that the claim wouldnt be
met. And hes had to pay significant costs (the repair invoice came to over £9,000)  to repair
his car and arrange car hire. So I think Tesco should pay Mr P £750  compensation for the
distress and inconvenience it caused Mr P
Ref: DRN45306784my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Tesco  Personal  Finance PLC to do 
the following:
reimburse Mr P for the costs he paid for incident  related repairs  and car hire 
subject to proof of payment.
Pay interest on the reimbursement from the date Mr P paid to the date Tesco
reimburses him at a rate of 8% simple  interest a year.
Pay Mr P £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
Tesco Personal Finance PLC must  pay the compensation  within  28 days of the date on
which we tell it Mr P accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Tesco Personal Finance PLC considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr P how much  its taken off. It should
also give Mr P a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4530678