K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the amount of compensation offered to him by Towergate 
Underwriting Group Limited for the way in which it handled his home insurance claim for 
storm damage. 
background
The facts  of this case are well known to both parties  so I dont intend to repeat them here in 
detail. But, in brief, Mr M made a claim for damage to his gable end wall following a storm in 
October 2017. The claim was accepted and repairs were undertaken, however, there were 
aspects to its handling that Mr M was unhappy  with. Specifically  Mr M was unhappy with the 
delay in the work starting, issues with the scaffolding and the stress caused to him and his 
wife. Mr M said the stress was caused by the poor handling of his claim by Towergate, the 
advice of the staff he spoke with and failed contractor appointments. He said that hed 
suffered financially and emotionally  as a result. 
Mr M complained to Towergate.  Once  the claim was completely  concluded,  Towergate  
issued Mr M with its final response in January 2018. It said it didnt agree with all the 
elements of Mr Ms complaint but did accept that there were two instances  of avoidable 
delays, some call charges incurred and some distress and inconvenience suffered. It offered 
Mr M compensation of £500. 
Mr M was unhappy with Towergates findings  and the compensation hed been offered. He 
calculated that he was due compensation totalling £1,540. He referred his complaint to this 
service. 
Our adjudicator investigated Mr Ms complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. He 
thought the compensation  offered by Towergate was reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicator. He made  the following points in response:
That our adjudicator had just believed what Towergate had said.  We should  accept  
what he was telling  us;
That hed been promised by an employee  of Towergates that the cost of two calls 
would be reimbursed  in full;
That he was struggling  to supply all the necessary details that would  prove hed been 
telling the truth but had collated 95% of what he needed to send us.
He wanted  an ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
Mr M said hed sent our adjudicator a letter in September 2018.  Our adjudicator  said he 
hadnt received  it. He asked Mr M to re-send it so that it would be available for me to review 
when looking at the file. Mr M initially said he didnt have a copy  but then said he wanted to 
amend the letter after hed sought legal advice. Our adjudicator asked Mr M if he could send 
the letter by the end of October 2018.  Unfortunately no letter  was received so the complaint 
was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN42831472Mr M has asked  that Towergate pay him compensation  of £1,540.  He broke this amount 
down as follows:
£450 for the failure to remove the scaffolding for 9 days (£50 per day)
£360 for his wasted time @ £120 per day for 3 days
£95 for phone calls
£35 for obtaining  6-7photographs
£600 for stress  and upset (£200 per month)
Towergate has offered  to pay Mr M compensation of £500.  Thats  broken down as follows:
£100 for the claim  delays
£50 for the call costs
£350 for distress  and inconvenience caused
If I were  to make Towergate  pay a total of £130  for the phone  calls and photographs I would 
need to see documentary evidence from Mr M that hed actually incurred these costs. 
Unfortunately none has been provided. I agree with Mr Ms that he made numerous, 
significantly long calls.  He says that his phone provider doesnt  provide itemised bills so this 
service should just accept  the amount he says these calls have  cost him because he must 
have incurred charges when  making  the calls. That may well be the case  but I dont know  
whether Mr M has incurred £95 worth  of costs. Partly, it would depend on the call package  
he has with his phone provider. Without any documentary evidence about exactly  what  
charges he incurred, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to make Towergate pay £95 for the 
phone calls made by Mr M. 
And having reviewed  the calls I cant agree  that they were all required in order  to move the 
claim along. Ive seen no evidence of any poor service from Towergates  staff in the way the 
calls were handled. Mr M says that one of Towergates staff promised hed be reimbursed for 
two calls he made to her. Weve asked Towergate for the call recordings concerned but they 
were made from/to a mobile number because the staff member wasnt office  based.  Such  
calls arent  recorded.  Without documentary evidence about what  was said,  or how long the 
calls were or what they cost, it wouldnt be reasonable of me to make Towergate pay any 
more than its already  offered. But Towergates acknowledged  that there was some  cost to 
Mr M in making the calls he did and offered him £50 for them.  For the reasons Ive given, I 
think thats fair.
The same is true for the photographs. Im not sure why 6-7 photographs  cost Mr M £35. 
Theres no documentary evidence to show this cost was incurred. Without  such  evidence it 
wouldnt be reasonable for me to make  Towergate pay for them.  
 
Mr M has asked  Towergate to pay him a total of £960 for time wasting and stress and 
inconvenience (£360  + £600). He has also asked for £450  for the 9 days the scaffolding  
remained in place after the repairs were completed. Towergate has offered Mr M £350 
overall for any distress  and inconvenience it caused him when handling his case. 
All insurance  claims come with a level of inconvenience attached  to them.  What  this service 
looks for when awarding compensation is evidence  that the insurer has caused additional or 
avoidable problems  with the claim. 
I dont think that a 9 day delay  in removing the scaffolding  given services were  in high 
demand during  that period as a result  of the poor weather experienced and that work was 
Ref: DRN42831473prioritised based  on the level of the jobs severity  was something Towergate couldve 
avoided. I understand  that the scaffolding  contractors were obliged  to remove the scaffolding  
before the local authority licence theyd  obtained expired which they did.
Whilst I understand why Mr M wouldve liked the scaffolding to be removed immediately I 
dont think that the 9 days it took was excessive enough  to warrant an increase in 
compensation. Towergate has accepted  that it couldve better communicated with Mr M 
about the removal and that this was something it took into account  when calculating  the 
compensation figure offered to him.
The claim took 93 days to resolve  from first notification  to completion. Towergate has 
accepted that there were two avoidable  delays with the repairs  which totalled four weeks 
overall. Ive not seen  any other avoidable  delays in the progression of the claim. There were 
some missed appointments  by the scaffolding contractors which Towergate has expressed  
its regret for. However, it has also explained that the contractors were very busy  and had to 
review and prioritise jobs according to their severity.   
Mr M has said the claim impacted his wifes  health and caused the cancellation of a holiday.  
For me to increase  the amount of compensation paid to Mr M, Id have to see some 
documentary evidence  that both matters were  the result of the way the claim was handled by 
Towergate. Unfortunately, none has been provided. Without it, it wouldnt be reasonable for 
me to recommend that the compensation Towergate  pays be increased.  
Aside from the call charges, delays and inadequate communication Towergate has 
acknowledged, I havent seen evidence of other  avoidable issues  caused  by any poor 
handling of the claim.  That means  I think that the total compensation of £500  offered by 
Towergate is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances  of this complaint. I accept that this 
decision will come as a disappointment to Mr M and that he will disagree with my findings. It 
is worth  mentioning, however, that if this case had passed across my desk without any offer 
of compensation  having been made by Towergate, its extremely unlikely that I wouldve 
awarded any more  than £500.  Im satisfied that £500 is in line with this services general 
approach to compensation awards.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4283147