K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs K payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2005.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs K disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago and not all the original documents  from the 
time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect  someone to recall  in detail everything that 
happened about 14 years  ago when  the application  was made.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is.
Ive also considered the comments made  in response to the adjudicators view of the case. 
However, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why:
I dont have strong evidence to show  that Bank of Scotland  failed to make  Mr and Mrs K 
aware the PPI was optional; or that it didnt ensure that they freely chose to take it. 
Without stronger  evidence, it wouldnt be fair for me to say that Bank  of Scotland acted 
wrongly in that way.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs K, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Being unable  to 
pay a mortgage  can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at 
the same  time as Mr K (the person covered) received any employer  sick pay, and 
potentially for longer.  It would  have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any 
redundancy pay. And it seems  Mr and Mrs K didnt have other means  to fall back on. So, 
this all would have  put Mr and Mrs K in a more secure position, if they eventually  lost 
income due to long term sickness or unemployment.  
The monthly price of the policy was shown. So I think Mr and Mrs K would have 
understood how much it would  cost. 
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr and Mrs K would  have been affected  by any of these. It seems 
Mr K was eligible  for the policy.
Ref: DRN41214742my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 May 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4121474