K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about how Admiral  Insurance Company Limited has dealt with his 
claim under his car insurance policy.
background
Mr F described two incidents  of damage to his car with Admiral.  Admiral has treated these 
incidents as two claims. Mr Fs first claim is for damage caused by another driver when they 
drove into his car. Admiral has accepted  this claim and has since settled  it.
Mr F says following  this first collision, he drove after the other driver to get their registration 
number. He says the other driver was stopped at a red light,  so he pulled into the opposite 
lane to cut them off and prevent them from driving away. The other driver then drove  his car 
hitting the side of Mr Fs car to get away from him. Admiral declined  Mr Fs second claim 
saying if he hadnt  put his car in harms way by his inappropriate  conduct the second incident 
probably wouldnt have  happened.  This meant it wouldnt  indemnify him for any claims made  
against him by the other driver.
Mr F complained as he thought Admiral should cover the second incident.  Admiral didnt 
agree as it said it has treated Mr F fairly. 
Mr F disagreed, so he brought his complaint  to us. Our investigator looked into things but 
didnt recommend Mr Fs complaint be upheld. She thought Admiral had acted reasonably  in 
refusing to indemnify Mr F in respect of any claim from the other  driver other than under its 
obligations under  the Road Traffic Act. As Mr F doesnt agree with the investigator,  his 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has made  clear that he is only complaining  about how Admiral has treated his second  
claim. Admiral has dealt with Mr Fs claim for the damage to his car as a total loss based on 
the merits of that claim. So this decision only considers the second  claim.
Mr F has said that:
I was only trying to get the third party registration details because in the in the first 
incident I couldnt have the chance  to see the third party registration number as the 
third party  fled the scene.
I am not reckless driver, I am a sensible driver.
The third party involved was driving  like a lunatic.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Fs policy say if he or any person covered by his policy  fails 
to protect  his car from loss or damage  through the inappropriate conduct of the driver,  no 
cover will be provided.  Admiral has said it was Mr Fs decision to drive  his car into the path 
of the other car, which Mr F had recognised as driving erratically.  It considers this to be 
inappropriate conduct.
Mr F said he wasnt reckless and was only trying to see the other cars registration number. 
He said the other driver was driving  like a lunatic.
Ref: DRN49950932Mr F said he wasnt to know that the other driver would continue to drive erratically. Hes 
also pointed out that the police havent  charged  him with any offences. 
Ive considered Admirals  position that Mr Fs driving  behaviour and conduct in the lead up to 
the second incident to be the cause of the accident. Mr F accepts  that after the first incident  
he chased after the other car with the aim of catching him up to get his details. It seems like 
the other driver was leaving the scene, so had Mr F not driven after him the second incident  
wouldnt have happened. 
Its clear from Mr Fs own admission that once he caught the other car up he placed his own 
car in a position  to stop the other car from driving  away. While I appreciate he needed to get 
the other drivers registration number I dont think he needed  to attempt to block the cars  
path to do so. 
Mr F also makes  the point that the Police havent  charged him with any offence. However 
that doesnt mean he hasnt behaved in such a way that means the claim shouldnt be 
excluded under the terms of the policy. And I think Admirals position  is fair because I think  
his inappropriate  conduct meant  he failed  to protect  his car from damage.
Considering the terms of the agreed  policy and whats fair and reasonable I think  Admirals  
position of repudiating the claim and acting as Road Traffic Act insurer (that is in satisfying 
its obligations under  the Road Traffic Act) is fair. As a consequence  Mr Fs complaint is not 
successful.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint about Admiral  
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4995093