K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI). Mr H says         
Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
Mr H took out two Lloyds credit cards at the same time, a VISA credit card,  and a 
MasterCard, PPI was sold with both cards.
background
Mr H applied for the credit cards  in 1993.  Mr H cant recall how the PPI was sold to him. 
Lloyds cant tell us how the credit  cards and PPI were sold either. From what  Ive seen  it is 
most likely Mr H applied for the cards  and was sold the PPI at a branch. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. Mr H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators findings  so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Lloyds hasnt been able to send  all the paperwork from the time. This isnt unusual and its 
understandable in view of the time that has gone by since the sale took place. But where 
there is limited information,  I will make my decision  based on whats more likely to have 
happened, taking into account  the evidence available, what  both parties have told me and 
what we know about these types  of sale.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
From experience Im aware that the type of application form Mr H most likely completed in 
1993 wouldve  given  him the option  to accept  or decline the PPI by ticking  or crossing a box 
to accept PPI or ticking a box to decline it. And the PPI remained on his account  for several  
years. During this time the premiums wouldve appeared on his monthly statements as 
purchases. So if Mr H hadnt wanted the PPI or hadnt chosen to add it his account, Id 
expect him to have  questioned it at an early  stage. But I havent seen any evidence that he 
did.
So, weighing everything up, I think Lloyds most likely made  it clear  that Mr H didnt have to 
take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant 
remember this after so long.
Lloyds has said that its representative shouldve recommended  the PPI to Mr H. In that case  
Lloyds had to check that the PPI was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was.
Mr H appears  to have been  eligible for the policies,  so hed have  been  able to make a claim 
if he needed to.
Ref: DRN41264092The policies did contain some exclusions on the PPI cover, but Mr H doesnt seem  to have 
been affected by these.  For example  hes told us he had no existing medical conditions that 
wouldnt be covered.
Mr H has told us hed receive  full sick pay from his employer for up to six months followed by 
half pay for a further six months. But the PPI couldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 
months if Mr H couldnt work.  And the benefit  would be paid in addition  to any sick pay. So I 
still think Mr H would  find the policy useful  if he became unwell, particularly if he was unable 
to work for a prolonged period.
The policy would also pay a monthly benefit  if Mr H had lost his job. Meaning Mr H could use 
any redundancy pay on other living  costs.
Mr H may have  had some  savings in 1993.  The monthly benefit would mean he didnt have 
to use his savings  to meet his monthly credit card repayments at what would likely be a 
difficult time for him financially.   
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it wouldve been useful  for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the policy. 
In summary  I think its most likely  Mr H chose to take out the PPI knowing he had a choice. 
And I think the cover was right for him. And even if Lloyds had given Mr H all the clear 
information it should have, I still think hed have  gone ahead and bought it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against         
Lloyds Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4126409