K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide  Building  Society mis-sold him a Flex Plus packaged bank 
account (PBA).
background
Mr W opened a Flex Plus account following a phone conversation with Nationwide  in 
April 2013. He paid a monthly fee for the account  which provided several benefits in return.
Mr W said Nationwide told him he had to have a PBA to get an overdraft facility.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr W didnt agree 
saying, in summary, that Nationwide  continued  to charge him each month after hed 
complained and said he didnt want the account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ws complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive seen, Im not upholding  this complaint. Id like 
to explain the reasons  for my decision  in more detail.
Ive firstly  thought about whether Mr W was given  a clear choice in taking this account. At 
this point, it may also help for me to explain that I have to make my decision based on what 
I think is most likely  to have happened. 
When the parties to a complaint disagree about  what happened (such as here)  and theres a 
lack of evidence  from the time, I have to think about what  I have  been  provided with, what 
I do know and the wider circumstances at the time. In other  words,  what  l have to do, in this 
case, is decide what I think is likely to have happened having weighed up what  both Mr W 
and Nationwide  have  been able to provide  me with.
This was Mr Ws first current account  with Nationwide and he says he was told he had to 
have the PBA account if he wanted an overdraft facility. I cant  be sure exactly what was 
discussed during  the call, but I havent  seen evidence to persuade me that Nationwide  told 
him this was the only account with an overdraft  facility.  I say this because  Nationwide  offered 
a fee-free online account and a fee-free  branch  account which both offered  overdraft 
facilities. For all of these accounts there  wouldnt have been any interest  for the first three 
months (12 months in the case  of the online account). The PBA did offer a continued interest 
free overdraft facility  for the first £250. But I dont  think this is what  persuaded Mr W to take 
the account  I can see from his statements  that his account was in credit for at least the first 
year of taking the account. So it seems unlikely that he would  have been  motivated to agree 
to the PBA just to secure an overdraft. I think its more likely that Mr W was interested in 
some of the other  benefits  of the account  and that is why he chose it. Overall I think  that, 
while the society may have offered him the account, Mr W knew  he didnt need  to go ahead  
with it if he didnt want to.
Ref: DRN41538012Nationwide has said that no personal recommendation was made when the account was 
taken out. Mr W has said that the account  was recommended  to him. I dont think its likely 
that a personal  recommendation  was made.  So Nationwide  didnt have to check whether the 
account was right for him, it was up to Mr W to do this. I think its likely Mr W wouldve been 
told about the main  benefits on the account  in order to make it appear as attractive  as 
possible. After  all Nationwide was trying to persuade him to take a fee paying  account when 
he most likely  knew  he didnt have  to. In any event, even if Nationwide had recommended  
the account, I dont  think  it was unsuitable  for Mr W in his circumstances.
At the time it was taken  out the benefits that the Flex Plus account came  with included 
worldwide travel insurance, mobile phone insurance, breakdown  cover  and free use of cash 
machines overseas. Mr W did travel, owned a mobile phone and drove a car. So I think that 
he couldve  used the insurances on the account if he wished to do so and that this may have 
been what attracted  him to take out the account. And in fact I can see that he did use the 
breakdown cover three times in 2015  and 2016.
Overall I think  that Mr W chose to take an account  which included  benefits he was eligible for 
and couldve  used,  and indeed did use. I accept  that Mr W may not have been told 
everything about all of the benefits but I cannot see anything specific  that Mr W was not told 
that I think wouldve  altered his decision  to take out the account.
Mr W may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, believe he hasnt benefitted  from the account 
as much as he had hoped and expected when he initially took it out. But overall and taking 
everything into consideration  I do not think that this account was mis-sold. 
Mr W says he told the society he didnt want the account anymore when he complained. 
Nationwide has provided two call recordings   the first when Mr W raised his complaint and 
the second when he phoned to chase for a response.  Although Mr W said that, as a 
resolution to his complaint, he wanted the society to refund the fees hed been charged,  he 
didnt give instructions to downgrade the account. Nationwide  explained it would investigate 
his complaint and in its final response  letter it told Mr W what  he would need to do if he felt 
the account was no longer suitable for him. Overall, I cant conclude  that Nationwide  did 
something wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4153801