K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide  Building Society  acted irresponsibly  when  it gave him an 
overdraft facility on his bank account.
background
In September  2014, Nationwide agreed  for Mr H to have an overdraft limit of £1,000 on his 
bank account.  Over  the next two months it allowed him to increase  it five times and by 
November 2014  it was £4,750.
In October  2018, Nationwide  wrote to Mr H to tell him that his overdraft facility would end in 
December 2018.  It told him if he wasnt able to bring his account to above £0 by then, he 
should call to discuss a payment plan. Following this, Nationwide agreed  a plan with Mr H 
which meant his overdraft would be reduced by £30 a month.
Mr H complained about Nationwides decision to lend to him in the first place. He felt 
Nationwide had breached its responsible lending guidelines in doing so. At the time he was 
given the overdraft he was dealing with multiple defaults on his credit file. He was making  
regular reduced  payments  from his Nationwide account to debt collection  agencies and other 
creditors, including payday lenders.  He was no longer paying his salary  into his account, 
which never approached  £4,750, and he was struggling with a gambling problem.
Nationwide didnt agree  it had done  anything wrong.  It said it reviewed overdrafts every six 
months and the overdraft  facility was repayable on demand.  It decided  to reduce the facility 
because Mr H had been quite reliant on it over the last review period. It didnt think it had 
made any mistakes or acted irresponsibly when it agreed the overdraft  or allowed Mr H to 
increase it.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 March 2020 where I explained why I intended to uphold  
Mr Hs complaint. In that I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Before granting or increasing Mr Hs overdraft, Nationwide  was required to complete 
proportionate checks to assess whether Mr H would be able to repay the full overdraft limit 
within a reasonable period of time, without incurring financial  difficulty. Overdrafts are 
intended for short-term  borrowing and they are repayable on demand.  Nationwide  should  
have taken this into consideration  when considering what a reasonable period was. 
When it completed the proportionate  checks Nationwide  should have considered  at least  
some of the following information sources:
Its record of previous dealings
Evidence of income
Evidence of expenditure
A credit score
A credit agency report
Information provided by Mr H.
Ref: DRN43782492Mr Hs salary wasnt paid directly  into his bank account so Nationwide  couldnt have seen 
this from his statements. From what Nationwide has said, it doesnt appear to have asked for 
or taken  Mr Hs income into account as part of its lending decision.
Mr H has told us he was earning about  £52,000 a year when the overdraft and increases 
were agreed. This means his monthly salary  would have been much lower  than the £4,750 
limit he was granted. So, I dont think Mr H would likely have been able to repay his overdraft 
on demand without  further borrowing from elsewhere.
Nationwide says it considered the information  showing on Mr Hs credit file when it agreed to 
the overdraft and subsequently  increased it. It says there was no negative information, such 
as defaults or county  court  judgments. Any defaults  showing on Mr Hs credit file from the 
time were almost  certainly backdated.  It says there  was a rule in place that prevented further 
overdraft limit increases  being offered to the top 12% of indebted customers  and Mr H wasnt  
one of these.
Mr H has sent us a copy  of his credit  report and I can see he had debts of over £20,000  
when the overdraft was agreed. This included around £13,000 of debt across  seven  different 
credit cards, another  overdraft, a debt consolidation loan and a payday loan. I acknowledge 
that any defaults might have been backdated, meaning they wouldnt have shown on Mr Hs 
credit file at the time. But it seems likely that there  would have been an indication on the 
credit file that he was in arrears with many  of his payments or had payment plans in place.
Mr Hs bank statements also suggest  that he was in financial difficulty  when he was given 
the overdraft. There  are payments to and from payday loan providers. It also looks like he 
had arrangements to pay several credit providers. 
Given the above, I think it should  have  been  clear to Nationwide that Mr H was struggling  to 
manage his finances  when  he applied  for the overdraft. He had a significant level of debt 
across multiple lenders.  I dont think he would have been able to pay even the initial £1,000 
limit over a reasonable period of time without incurring further financial difficulty.  So I dont 
think Nationwide acted  responsibly when it granted Mr H the overdraft. 
Nationwide says it acted  appropriately and in line with the expectations at the time. But the 
requirements I stated earlier in my decision are according to the relevant industry  rules  and 
guidance in place in September 2014.
I think Mr H lost out because Nationwides decision to lend him because he was charged 
fees for using the overdraft facility.
I went on to say what I intended to direct  Nationwide to do to put things right and gave both 
parties the opportunity to send me further comments or information they wanted me to 
consider before I issued my final decision.  
responses
Mr H agreed with what Id said in my provisional decision. But Nationwide  didnt agree with 
the conclusions  Id reached.
Ref: DRN43782493Nationwide said it didnt  think  it had made  mistakes in its lending decisions. It hadnt  been 
provided with accurate  information from a credit  reference agency when it agreed to Mr Hs 
overdraft. It sent a timeline  of the information it had on record  from January 2014 to 
December 2016.  The entries showed  it was given new information  in October 2016 which 
advised of Mr Hs financial  difficulty. But it had based its lending decisions on inaccurate 
information that Mr H didnt have any defaults, arrears  or unsecured  borrowing.
Nationwide also said that while  Mr H had declared  an income of £52,000 when hed opened  
the account in 2012,  it had information that showed his income had increased to £85,000 by 
2014. He also had an account turnover  of between £3,000 and £6,000 per month at the time 
the overdraft and limit increases were agreed.  When considered  with the information  given 
by the credit reference  agency, Mr H met Nationwides  affordability at the time. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has already told us that it isnt able to provide  us with proof of the actual credit 
reference agency searches it conducted  at the time of the lending. Given  what  we know 
about Mr Hs existing  debt, I think its unlikely that the credit reference agency wouldnt have 
had information  about it. But I cant tell if mistakes  were made by the credit  reference agency 
or Nationwide. 
Regardless of whose mistake it was, I dont think it was reasonable for Nationwide to have 
relied on this information  when  it made its lending decisions. Nationwide  should also have 
taken into account  what it already  knew  about Mr H. His bank statements show he was 
making payments  to a number of different lenders and he was receiving money  from payday  
loan providers. On balance, Im not persuaded Nationwide had done  enough  to check  the 
lending was affordable for Mr H before  extending the overdraft facility to him.
So, having  considered Nationwides comments and further information, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision.
putting things right 
Nationwide must:
rework Mr Hs current overdraft balance so that all the interest,  fees and charges 
applied to it are removed.
AND
if an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made, Nationwide should  allow Mr H to continue  with the repayment plan 
already in place.
OR (if the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results in there  no longer 
being an outstanding balance)
Ref: DRN43782494any extra  should be treated as overpayments  and returned to Mr H. If no outstanding 
balance remains after all adjustments  have been made then Nationwide  should  
remove all adverse  information from Mr Hs credit file.
pay interest of 8% simple  per year on any overpayments from the date they were 
made (if they were) to the date of settlement*
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide  
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Nationwide Building 
Society to put things  right by doing  as Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4378249