K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold them  a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in April 1992. The mortgage it covered had 
started in 1988.  
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Nationwide  disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive considered what Nationwide has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint. This is because I dont think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs M clear  enough  
information about the policy. I say this because you had to wait for payment for about  three  
months (90 days) after you were off work  from sickness or had become unemployed; and 
then you were only paid for the last of those  three  months. There was no backdated amount 
for the first two months. And if you needed to make another claim later on in your mortgage  
period, the same two month gap would apply again. I think these were important limitations  
in the policy, and I think its likely Mr and Mrs M werent aware of this. 
It would affect them  particularly because Mr M, the person covered, was not entitled to any 
sick pay, and Mr and Mrs M say they didnt have savings. 
Nationwide has said that, when the PPI started in 1992, Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage  account 
was in credit by roughly the equivalent of one months mortgage payments. This was 
because they hadnt adjusted their standing order after the interest rate had dropped, and so 
had been overpaying. Nationwide says this means  that, if Mr M needed to claim, the actual 
shortfall Mr and Mrs M would have needed to cover was that of one months mortgage 
payment. However  I dont  think this is a strong point. From the correspondence at the time,  
suggests that, at the time they applied for PPI in April 1992,  Mr and Mrs M had been 
unaware of the overpayment and accumulation of credit. It was May 1992 that they wrote  to 
Nationwide to say theyd discovered  their error  in overpaying, and asking for a refund. This 
does also suggest  that they didnt have this amount of money  readily to spare. 
Nationwide has said Mrs Ms part-time  work  would have helped  pay the mortgage, if Mr M 
was off work. But its more than likely  the whole household income  was already needed for 
Mr and Mrs Ms living expenses including the mortgage costs.  So I dont think  thats  a valid 
consideration. 
Nationwide has said it would have come to an arrangement with Mr and Mrs M, if they could 
not pay their mortgage  during that time.  It says it has evidence that this was its practice.  But 
this isnt a relevant consideration in what Im looking at  whether Mr and Mrs M would have  
Ref: DRN42316402made a different decision if theyd understood the shortcomings in the PPI policy. 
Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have known of Nationwides claimed approach to such arrears; and 
even if they had, I think many people  would have been reluctant to rely on such assurances.  
Its unlikely to have  made  a significant  difference to their decision on whether the PPI was 
worth the cost, given  the limitations in the policy. 
Nationwide says the limitation  was brought to Mr and Mrs Ms attention. It says that, along 
with the postal application form, theyd  have received a short leaflet  which said about the 90 
day waiting period. Nationwide also points to the statement  on the application form in which  
Mr and Mrs M confirmed  they had read, understood and agreed to the eligibility and 
exclusion conditions listed on the leaflet enclosed with this letter.
But just because they said theyd read and understood the leaflet doesnt mean they actually 
had done this. The leaflet says:
                                                                             
If youre away from work for more than 90 consecutive days  because  of illness,  
accident or unemployment, then Mortgage  Payment Cover pays your chosen  amount 
of benefit directly into your mortgage account  or direct to you. The first payment will 
be in respect of the period  from the 61st to the 90th day. 
This will continue for each month of disability or unemployment, for up to 24 months 
in any one claim.
I cant be sure Mr and Mrs M saw this part of the leaflet.  But if they did, I dont think its very 
clear. Many people wouldnt understand what it meant exactly. Its saying that after 90 days 
payments will start. The first payment however isnt for the period after the 90 days,  but for 
part of the initial 90 days. Does this mean further payments would be coming, to fill the 
earlier gaps, and for some reason Nationwide would  be staggering  those payments?  It does 
say there  will be a payment for each month  of disability  or unemployment   so that would 
cover the first two months, wouldnt it?
I can guess at what is probably meant, but then I read such wording for a living. But even 
then, if I were a customer, Id probably want to ask for clarification, given the way its worded. 
But some people would just assume  they are covered  for all the time theyre  off work, but 
that the payments would come in a slightly complicated way. There were much  clearer ways  
of expressing what Nationwide wanted to say  and of warning customers  in the leaflet more 
prominently, and ideally  on the application form too. 
I think Mr and Mrs M lost out because of how the PPI was sold.  
fair compensation
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs M in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide  
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount  they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
Ref: DRN42316403If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Nationwide  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide Building Society  to take off tax from this 
interest. Nationwide must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken 
off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
I require Nationwide  Building Society  to pay Mr and Mrs M compensation in accordance with 
the calculation  of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 November  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4231640