K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that Santander UK Plc didnt do more to help them when they 
were a victim of fraud.
Background
Mr and Mrs A have  a joint bank account with Santander. In June 2018, Mr A found a 
business online offering currency exchange  services. He agreed  to buy euros from it, and he 
was asked to transfer £1,004.44 via bank transfer.  The business didnt provide Mr A with the 
euros that hed paid for and didnt  respond  to any of his attempts to make  contact.  Mr A 
quickly realised that it was likely hed been a victim of fraud and promptly notified  Santander.  
I understand that the individual to whom Mr A made this payment  has since been convicted 
of fraud.
Santander didnt  agree to refund this payment because it said hed authorised it. Mr A was 
unhappy with Santanders response and so he referred his complaint to this service. It was 
looked at by an adjudicator who didnt uphold it. She said that, in view of the other payments 
that had been made  from the account,  Santander  had no reason to regard this one as being 
suspicious. She also said that, as the payment was made online there was no interaction 
between Mr A and any member of Santander staff, so there  was no opportunity for it to 
discuss this payment with Mr A. The adjudicator  also thought  that Santander had done 
everything it could to recover the payment  once  it came to light that it had been  made  as a 
result of fraud.
Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He said that Santander shouldnt encourage 
customers to use online banking to make transfers  of this kind if it knows that they are high 
risk. Mr A also disagreed  that Santander had done  everything it could to recover  the money 
once it had been notified of what had happened. Mr A is also unhappy that Santander 
described what had happened to him as a scam,  rather than using the word  fraud.  Because 
Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, the complaint  has been passed to me to come  
to a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
consider relevant: law and regulations;  regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
Theres no question that Mr A has been the victim of a cruel and cynical  fraud.  But the 
question that I have to consider here is the extent to which Santander  can be considered 
liable for his losses.
Mr A has attached a lot of significance to the fact that Santander  referred to what  happened 
to him as a scam, rather than a fraud. Thats understandable in the circumstances and I 
can see why hed feel the term scam might  sound like it diminishes the fact that hes been  
a victim of a serious  crime. The term fraud has a very specific  meaning in criminal law  but 
Ref: DRN40254852outside of that field, the two terms can be used interchangeably.  And Santanders obligations 
are determined by the facts of the scenario, not by the label it applies to it. 
What were Santanders obligations?
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and
conditions of the customers account.  
But that is not the whole the story:
the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and
regulated firms  like Santander are also required to conduct  their business with due
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6); and
As a matter  of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken
proactive steps  to:
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice,  which
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
That means there are circumstances where a bank should take additional steps, or make 
additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  
with Mr A when he carried out this transfer and when he reported  that it was fraudulent.  Ive 
considered this point  carefully and I agree with the adjudicator that it hasnt done anything  
wrong here.
This wasnt an out of character transaction.  In the six months  prior to the fraudulent  
transaction, Mr A had made a handful of similar transfers for larger  sums of money.  In view 
of that, I wouldnt have expected Santander  to recognise that Mr A was at risk of being  
defrauded. I can also see that Santander contacted the fraudsters bank the same morning 
that Mr A reported what had happened, so Im satisfied Santander did all it reasonably could 
to attempt to recover the payment.  Unfortunately, it was moved out of the account  swiftly 
and so couldnt be recovered.
I dont agree with Mr A that internet banking transfers are inherently  unsafe and that 
Santander is wrong to offer them to its customers or encourage them to make use of them. 
The reason  he lost out here is not because of the safety of Santanders systems or the 
payment system generally. Unfortunately, Mr A lost out here because of the actions of the 
fraudster who made  an agreement with him and then chose to not fulfil it. 
Ref: DRN40254853I do feel considerable sympathy  for what Mr A has been through here. But unfortunately, Im 
not persuaded that this was a consequence of anything  that Santander failed to do  so 
whilst Im sorry to have  to disappoint  him, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 July 2020.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4025485