K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1994. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Mrs G says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its likely FICL  made it clear that Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it. The card application form gave  a choice about the cover and I think FICL wouldve 
only added  the cover after Mrs G agreed  to this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs G so it didnt have to check the PPI was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs G got the information she needed to decide for herself 
whether the PPI was right for her.
Mrs G says the PPI wasnt explained.  I think its possible the information FICL gave Mrs G 
about the PPI wasnt as full or as clear as it shouldve been.  But Mrs G chose to take the 
cover  so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And based on what  Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time, Mrs G wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
cover - so she couldve made  a successful claim on the cover  if the circumstances arose. 
Mrs G has told us FICL didnt explain the costs  of the cover  or ask about her existing cover.  
And shes told us she was entitled  to work  sick pay. But from what  shes said,  her work sick 
pay would  halve after six months. From what we know, the PPI benefit wouldve likely paid 
out for longer  or until the card balance was cleared. So I think the benefit couldve helped  
Mrs G if she lost her job or was too sick to work. And Mrs G has told us she didnt have any 
savings or anything else to help with her card payments  if she couldnt work. Also it looks 
like the cover was affordable. Taking everything into account, I dont think better information 
about the PPI wouldve put Mrs G off taking the cover.
Ive taken into account all Mrs Gs points  but, in the light of what  Ive said above already, 
these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
Ref: DRN42541422ombudsman
Ref: DRN4254142