K821x#15Complaint
Mr H has complained that Indigo Michael  Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) 
offered him ever increasing amounts of credit  which he could not afford to repay. Mr H says 
his credit rating clearly  indicated his financial difficulty as most  other  lenders would refuse 
him credit. 
Background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
24 June 2020.  An extract from this is attached and forms  part of this final decision,  so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to partly uphold the complaint. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. SNC  agreed with the 
findings in the provisional decision  and therefore didnt have anything further to add. Mr H 
didnt respond  to the provisional decision.  
My findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SNC has agreed with the findings  I reached  in the provisional decision and Mr H hasnt 
provide anything more for me to consider. So I dont see any reason to change the findings I 
reached in the provisional decision. 
So I still think SNC was wrong  to have allowed Mr H to take further drawdowns on the facility 
after 15 May 2018. Ive outlined  below  what SNC  needs to do to put things right. 
what I think SNC should  do to put things right
To put things right for Mr H, SNC should:
remove any unpaid interest fees and charges and then refund all the interest  and
charges applied to Mr Hs facility from 15 May 2018 onwards;
add 8% interest per year simple on the above  interest and charges from the date
they were date to the date of settlement*
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Hs credit file as a result  of not
stopping the facility from 15 May 2018.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN43937852my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I partly uphold Mr Hs 
complaint
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr H as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 September  2020.
Robert Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN43937853EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION 
Complaint
Mr H has complained that Indigo Michael  Limited  (trading  as Safety Net Credit (SNC))  offered him 
ever increasing  amounts of credit. Mr H says his credit rating  clearly indicated  his financial difficulty as 
most other  lenders would refuse him credit. 
Background
Mr H approached  SNC for a Safety Net facility in January  2018. This was a running credit account 
where a consumer  could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would  be deposited  into 
their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net amount  of the customers 
choosing.
Mr H was initially given a facility with a £300 credit limit in January 2018.  His limit was
increased on a further two occasions with his last credit limit approved for £350 in
April 2018.  Mr H stopped using his facility in August 2018 and repaid his balance in September 2018.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at Mr Hs complaint. He thought the checks  SNC carried  out
before granting  this facility  were proportionate. But he thought  the way Mr H used his
facility showed the facility had become unsustainable over time  and this point was reached by 13 
April 2018. At this point SNC shouldve  stopped Mr H from taking any further drawdowns.  
SNC disagreed  with our adjudicator  and made a number  of comments including;
Mr H repaid seven times  while a SNC customer, and after each repayment there was on 
average ten days before  Mr H requested  further withdrawals. 
When Mr H then went on to withdraw  funds,  he never requested his full credit limit, and 
borrowed small amounts  of the money to top up his account, as SNC is intended  to be used. 
It believes Mr Hs SNC facility to have been affordable at all times and we do not believe it to 
be treating customers  fairly to withdraw affordable credit lines from customers in the sort of 
manner it felt the adjudicators  view suggested.
As no agreement could  be reached  the complaint  has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any
relevant regulatory rules  and good  industry practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im still intending  to partly
uphold Mr Hs complaint,  nut I think there was a different  point  at which  SNC ought to have likely  been 
aware that Mr H was having financial difficulties. 
To begin with, Mr H seems to have accepted our adjudicators opinion,  that SNC wasnt wrong to 
approve his running credit facility. I think the initial approval of his facility is no longer in dispute, so I 
have no reason to reach a finding about this. Instead, Ill focus on the point at which I think  SNC ought 
to have been  aware that Mr H was having financial difficulties. 
Whilst Im not looking at what happened when the facility  was approved, that doesnt mean 
I think  SNC did everything it shouldve done. I do think it was wrong to have allowed him to continue 
drawing down  on the account from 15 May 2018  slightly  later than the point identified by the 
adjudicator. For this reason,  Ill explain below the way he was using  the account  indicated  he wasnt 
using it in a sustainable  manner.  
Ref: DRN43937854The relevant regulations in place at the time Mr H was given his Safety Net facility
Firstly, under the provisions outlined  in the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC  (6.7.2)  which  is 
relevant guidance at the time, SNC  had an obligation to;
monitor  a customers repayment record and take appropriate action where  there are signs of actual 
or possible repayment  difficulties
When Mr H was granted a £300 limit, I dont  think  it was unreasonable of SNC to have believed that 
Mr H would repay the outstanding balance over a reasonable period of time,  which  could result in 
monthly repayments of around £20. After  all, this is what  it was expected,  and the way this facility was 
designed. But if Mr H wasnt using  the facility as intended, this could indicate to SNC  that he was 
having wider financial  problems.
What I would  point out at this point,  is that even though SNC could believe that the repayment would 
be made over a reasonable  period of time,  it cant  be ignored that the following provision  is contained  
with the credit agreement for the facility;
We will only ever take a repayment when your Bank Balance is higher than your SafetyNet  
Level.
We will never take a repayment  which reduces your balance to the SafetyNet  Level and 
therefore triggers a Credit Instalment. To make sure this is the case  whenever we take a 
repayment we will always  leave you a balance which is at least  £30 above your SafetyNet  
Level.
Subject to the above, the repayment amount  will be the full amount you owe us in outstanding 
capital and interest whilst  leaving you a Bank Balance which is at least  £30 above your 
SafetyNet Level  or such lesser amount as will leave you a Bank Balance at least  £30 above 
your SafetyNet Level.
The final bullet point is clear  here  that SNC will collect the full amount owed to is when sufficient 
funds are deposited into the bank balance. So, this is why, I think in this case, when SNC  was 
monitoring the account,  it needed to be mindful  how Mr H was using the facility in terms of repayment 
as well as whether there were signs of financial difficulty.  
In order  to see whether I think it was fair allow Mr H to continue to drawdown, Ive considered the 
relationship between  when repayments were made to SNC, the value of those  payments and then 
when Mr H returned for further borrowing.  Ive also considered the information  about  Mr Hs 
circumstances which SNC was aware of before and during the borrowing  relationship. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Hs complaint  from April 2018. But I think  SNC had enough information to 
suggest Mr Hs borrowing  had become  unsustainable from 15 May 2018  and it should have stopped 
him from taking any further drawdowns from this point.
Mr H was initially given a facility with a £300 credit limit. Mr H drew  down on the facility 54 times 
between 29 January 2018  and 14 September 2018  when the account  closed. During  this period a 
payment was taken on seven occasions and each time the balance was cleared  in full. 
Whist I dont  have any concerns about the way Mr H was initially using his facility, I think  there were 
signs quite early on that a pattern was emerging.  I say this because Mr H was drawing down  funds  
around the very end and beginning of the month. Around mid-month Mr H repaid what  he owed in full 
when he received  his salary. Then around a week or two later,  he came back  for further  borrowing, 
drawing down  up to his full credit limit within around a week.
At the start of the borrowing  relationship, I can see Mr H initially had a monthly  income of around 
£1,285 but his circumstances seemed to change in April 2018 as he received less income of £1,082. 
In addition to this, his living costs had decreased  but the amount  he was transferring to another  
account in his name  had increased. 
Ref: DRN43937855As Ive explained previously,  there was signs that a pattern had emerged in the way Mr H was using 
his account.  And by the time he made his repayment in April 2018,  I think  this should  have put SNC 
on notice especially  as his income had dropped. But I dont think  the fact that Mr Hs income had 
changed in April 2018 was enough  to conclude that SNC  should have halted the account  at this point.  
But when Mr Hs income dropped further in May 2018 to £1,022, I think SNC  should have been 
concerned that there was a deterioration in Mr Hs income and this is when it should  have halted the 
facility. Mr Hs repayment  for May 2018  was equal to around 40% of his income.  And whilst  he had 
the option  to make his minimum repayment of £20, it was likely that he was going to continue  to repay  
his balance in full as he had done this since the start of the borrowing relationship.
SNC had access to Mr Hs bank statements  for a period of around three months prior to his 
application as well as during the entire borrowing relationship.  Mr Hs statements initially showed  
transactions for food,  TV subscriptions as well as travel related costs. I also note that Mr H was 
regularly transferring  money to another bank account that was in his name. Some  of the money  he 
transferred to this other  account was occasionally  received back into his nominated account,  but the 
amount was small in comparison to the amount he transferred out. This leads  me to think  that Mr H 
had another  account where he potentially  had further outgoings that SNC  didnt have information 
about. This should have concerned SNC as it potentially didnt have access  to Mr Hs main bank 
account and therefore, it didnt have a full picture of Mr Hs circumstances.
Looking at Mr Hs circumstances  in April 2018, SNC  would  have seen that Mr H had a decreased 
number of transactions for food and travel but the amount he was transferring  to this other bank 
account had increased. We requested further information from Mr H about  these transactions. He told 
us he was the transfers were  for his daily living expenses such as rent, food and travel  and that the 
account was used as it had a contactless card option. I dont find this unreasonable  due to amount he 
transferred to his other bank account and the lack of living costs shown on the account  that SNC had 
access to. This does suggest that his other account  was being  used to cover his living  costs. 
In my view,  Mr Hs account activity shouldve  been enough for SNC to have proactively contacted him 
to arrange smaller payments  as permitted by the agreement  and in line with what it would take for the 
facility to be cleared  within a reasonable  period,  rather than continue taking the full account balance 
on a regular basis. After all, I dont consider it fair, reasonable and proportionate to on the one hand 
argue that the facility was affordable because it could be repaid within  a reasonable period  of time 
when it never collected payments on this basis. And the credit agreement  actually  suggests to me that 
there was never any intention to collect payments on this basis either.
I acknowledge that SNCs says its facility  worked similarly to a credit card - the facility came with a 
credit limit and a customer could drawdown available  funds. But ultimately, SNCs facility isnt a credit 
card and I dont think comparisons are helpful. SNCs  responsibility was to monitor  for signs of 
financial difficulty, which  I think  had become  apparent a few months into the borrowing  relationship. 
And once  this had become  known, SNC  had a responsibility to not continue allowing Mr H to 
unsustainably use a facility  that was causing  further financial detriment  so by withdrawing  the 
product. 
Overall, I think  SNC shouldve withdrawn the facility  from 15 May 2018 and not allowed
Mr H to continue using it from this date. So, I think  Mr H has lost out as a result of SNCs
actions.
Ref: DRN4393785