K820x#14complaint
Ms O is unhappy because Paragon Finance PLC continues to pursue her for payment of an 
outstanding debt.
Although Ms O is represented in this matter by a third party, for simplicity I will just refer to 
Ms O.
background
Ms O had a credit  card with a bank. Paragon  later bought the account  from the bank and it 
initially received  monthly  repayments from Ms O via the bank. Ms O later authorised various 
organisations to act on her behalf, and Paragon started receiving repayments from Ms O via 
those organisations.
Paragon received the last repayment in September 2017, which  left an outstanding  balance  
of just over £3,700.  Paragon has been contacting Ms O in order to get her plans for repaying 
the outstanding debt.  The complaint has come  to us because Ms O thinks  its unfair  for 
Paragon to be pursuing her as the debt is unenforceable.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He felt the bank had shown that 
Ms O was their customer and he noted  that regular repayments had been  made  to Paragon 
over a number of years. He therefore felt the debt was Ms Os and that Ms O was aware of 
it. He didnt therefore think Paragon had treated Ms O unfairly by contacting her seeking 
repayment of the debt.
Ms O disagreed with our investigator  and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
She disputed the amount owed and noted that the bank (and Paragon) hadnt  been  able to 
provide a copy of the credit agreement  so she couldnt check whether the account had 
been administered  correctly. She also felt Paragon should be contacting  her through her 
solicitor.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We often see cases where  a consumer argues that they shouldnt  have to repay a debt 
because its unenforceable. Paragon accepts  that Ms Os debt isnt enforceable in court 
because it cant provide a copy of the credit agreement. Its nevertheless of the view that the 
debt remains outstanding and that Ms O remains liable for it.
I note Paragon immediately (and consistently and regularly thereafter) received repayments 
to the account  from the moment it bought the debt from the bank.  I also note that the 
complaint letter written to Paragon says Ms O entered into this credit agreement   with [the 
bank].  Im therefore satisfied that the debt at the centre of this complaint has arisen from a 
credit card Ms O originally  held with the bank.  If Ms O disagreed the debt was hers,  I think  
its more likely than not that she would have  disputed  it at the outset.
Ive seen a statement that Paragon sent to Ms O in December 2018 which shows the 
payment history on the account. The statement shows that the opening balance  when 
Paragon bought the account was £6,587.451 and that Paragon  received payments totalling 
Ref: DRN48318412£2,853.85 from February  2012 until September 2017  thereby reducing the amount owed to 
£3,733.60. I cant  see that any interest or other charges were added  to the account during 
that time.  It therefore  seems the amount  owed  reduced in line with the payments Paragon  
received.
Whether the debt is legally enforceable is a matter for a court to decide   thats not 
something I can determine. However,  as Im satisfied the debt is Ms Os, I dont think  
Paragon has treated Mrs O unfairly  in asking her for repayment or in taking steps to recover 
the money.
There is a sundry issue about  Paragon contacting Ms O directly  rather than through  her 
representative. As Ms O appointed a representative there is an argument  to say that 
Paragon should  be contacting her via the representative. However, as no payment proposals 
were forthcoming and as the debt is Ms Os (rather  than the representatives)  I think  theres 
also an argument that Paragon could contact  Ms O directly. Nevertheless,  I dont  think any 
wrongdoing by Paragon  in contacting  Ms O directly was sufficiently unreasonable to warrant  
any compensation being awarded.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
1 In recent correspondence from Ms O the opening  balance was quoted as being  £6,529.94 but I think  
that was the balance  after Paragon received the first repayment of £57.51.
Ref: DRN4831841