K820x#14complaint
Ms C says HSBC UK Bank Plc has not dealt properly with fraud on her chequebook.
what happened
Ms C lives abroad. She regularly withdraws  money  from ATMs, and is then charged fees for 
withdrawing cash in a different currency.
Ms C says theres less money in her account than there should  be. Shes  suggested that 
other residents of her building have stolen  her chequebook and are spending  her money  
using the cheques. Ms C says the other  residents use multiple aliases, have replaced her 
bank cards with fake versions, and are using special magnets to remotely  block  her card.
Ms C has explained  that she has financial difficulties. Her account regularly goes into an 
unarranged overdraft.
HSBC sent Ms C a replacement chequebook, and replaced her cards when she asked. They 
said there hadnt been any cheque  transactions on her account since  2017. They explained  
she was going  into an overdraft because she kept withdrawing non-sterling cash. They tried 
to speak to Ms C but werent able to get in touch.
Ms C came to our service.  Our investigator  looked into things independently, and didnt think 
HSBC needed  to do anything more. He explained Ms C had a normal current account. He 
went through Ms Cs statements and found her last cheque was sent in 2017, and that it was 
her non-sterling cash withdrawals that were  bringing  her account overdrawn. He asked her 
to call HSBC so she could  change her account.
Ms C disagreed. She asked why our service sent her a chequebook. She felt her neighbours 
had stolen her latest chequebook and replaced  it with a fake. She reiterated  that she was in 
financial difficulties. The complaints been  passed to me to decide.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Like our adjudicator, Ive looked into Ms Cs account, including  her statements up to August 
2019. Her last cheque  was sent in 2017. I hope I can reassure her that no one had paid any 
cheques from her account recently  at the time she complained, and I do not think anyone 
has been using  cheques to defraud her.
Ms C has sent in her original bank cards and chequebook, along  with receipts from her ATM 
visits. I dont think her cards or chequebook  are fake. She needed her genuine cards  in order  
to make her ATM withdrawals. To clarify, our service  did not send Ms C a new chequebook 
 we were only returning  the one she sent to us.
Like our investigator said, it looks like Ms Cs account goes into an overdraft because  she 
frequently takes out money  from ATMs and is charged non-sterling fees. Thats  because  her 
HSBC account  is in pound sterling, whereas the country she lives in uses  euros.
Ref: DRN48446462I also understand Ms C sometimes has trouble paying her bills. It looks like, again, thats 
because her bills are in euros  and shes trying to pay them  in pounds.
In order to pay her bills more easily, and in order to be charged less in fees, Ms C needs  to 
use an account thats in euros. HSBC have tried to speak to Ms C about this but havent  
been able to get in touch.
Ms C may be able to open an account with a local bank in her current country, which  will use 
euros. That should stop the non-sterling fees and let her pay her bills more easily.
If Ms C doesnt open an account that uses euros, Im afraid it looks like shes  going to 
continue to have  trouble  paying her euro bills, and is still going to get charged  non-sterling 
fees. HSBC have explained Ms C needs to change accounts to avoid these fees going 
forward, and theyve  tried to contact her about  this. With that in mind, its difficult  for me to 
tell HSBC they need to do any more here.
Lastly, I understand that Ms C feels distressed  by this situation, and that she may have had 
some trouble  eating. She also mentioned that she doesnt take her medicine sometimes. If 
Ms Cs health is being affected, it may be worth  her getting advice from her doctor about 
everything thats been going on and what local services might  be able to help.
my final decision
I have not found  a reason  to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
 
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4844646