K821x#15Complaint
Miss W is unhappy  with the response  of Ikano Financial Services  Ltd (Ikano), following a 
claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA).
Background
I issued a provisional decision in July 2020  concluding that Miss Ws complaint should be 
upheld. I also set out what Ikano should  do to put things right. I attach a redacted version of 
my provisional decision which forms part of this final decision.
I invited further comments  from both parties  before  I reconsidered the complaint for a final 
time. Both Miss W and Ikano accepted my provisional decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come  to the same  overall  conclusions as set out in my provisional  
decision and both parties have agreed  to what I require Ikano to do to put things right.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint against Ikano Financial Services Ltd.
In full and final settlement  of it, I require Ikano Financial Services Ltd to:
1.allow Miss W to keep  the solar panels,
2.estimate the potential  savings and income  to Miss W from the panels over the two 
year term of the loan and rework  it so that her monthly  loan repayments  are no more  
than this. Where possible, it should use Miss Ws FIT statements and electricity bills 
to do this;
3.add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date of the overpayment  
until the date of the settlement,
4.pay Miss W £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
*If Ikano Financial Services Ltd considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should tell Miss W how much its taken off. It should 
also give her a certificate showing this, if she asks for one, so she can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2020.
Michael Fisher
Ref: DRN46495662ombudsman
Ref: DRN46495663Provisional decision
Complaint
Miss W is unhappy with the response of Ikano Financial Services Ltd (Ikano),  following  a claim 
against it under Section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Background
Miss Ws neighbour had a meeting with a company, Ill refer to it as S, that supplied  and installed 
solar panel  systems. Miss W has said that as she was interested  in solar panels, she also attended  
the meeting. Following this meeting, Miss W agreed  to enter into a contract with S for it to supply and 
install a solar  panel system costing around £8,200. To pay for this she also agreed to enter into a two 
year, interest  free, fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano.
Miss W made a claim under Section 75 (s75)  of the CCA via her representative. The representative  
said that S had told Miss W her monthly loan repayments would be off-set by the financial  benefits 
provided by the solar  panels by way of the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income and savings shed make by 
using the electricity  generated  by the solar panels rather than buying it from her energy provider. But 
that hadnt  happened. Instead, her monthly loan repayments had been much higher.
Ikano replied to Miss W. It said it had spoken to S. S had explained that it had spoken to Miss W and 
explained that her system was working as it should. S said Miss W had told it that she had no further 
concerns and didnt want to continue with the complaint. Miss W, via her representative, said this 
wasnt her recollection of what had happened  and asked  our service to consider her complaint.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She thought  that S had misrepresented the 
benefits of the solar panel  system to Miss W. To put things right,  she  recommended  that Ikano 
calculate the potential income  and savings  to Miss W over 10 years.  She said it should then ensure 
that Miss W pays no more  than this over 10 years. She also recommended  that Ikano pay Miss W 
£100 for the trouble  and upset caused.
Miss W, via her representative accepted the investigators view.  Ikano didnt. In summary, it said:
The contract between Miss W and S would show  the expected financial benefits she would 
receive from the solar  panels and this would  have made it clear  that her monthly loan 
repayments wouldnt have been  covered by the solar panel benefits. As neither Miss W nor 
Ikano have been able to provide a copy of the contract,  it isnt reasonable for the investigator 
to have reached her conclusion based solely on Miss Ws testimony.
The system is performing as expected.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to review.
 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account: relevant  law and 
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I would  consider to have  been  good industry  practice at the relevant  time. 
In this case the relevant law includes Section 56 (s56)  and s75 of the CCA. S75 provides protection  
for consumers  for goods  or services bought using  credit. It states:
Ref: DRN46495664If the debtor  under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) has, in 
relation to a transaction financed by the agreement,  any claim against the supplier in the respect of a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract,  he shall have  a like claim  against the creditor, who, with the 
supplier, shall accordingly be jointly  and severally liable  to the debtor.
As Miss W paid for the solar  panel system with a fixed sum loan, Ikano agrees  that s75 applies to this 
transaction. This means that Miss W could claim  against Ikano  the creditor  for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  by S in the same  way that she could have claimed against S, 
the supplier. So, Ive taken s75 into account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances  of this 
complaint. 
S56 is also relevant.  This is because it says that any negotiations between Miss W and S, as the 
supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent for Ikano.
What happened?
If there  is a dispute about what  happened, I must decide on the balance  of probabilities  that is, what  
I consider to have been most likely to have happened,  given the evidence that is available and the 
wider surrounding circumstances.
Miss W says that her neighbour  had a meeting with a salesperson from S. As Miss W was potentially 
interested in having solar  panels installed  at her home, she asked,  and her neighbour agreed, for her 
to also attend the meeting.  Miss W has said that during the sales meeting she was told that her 
monthly loan repayments would be met by the financial  benefits shed receive from the solar panel 
system. Miss W was close to retirement age at the time of the sale and it is hard to see why she 
would have agreed to the installation  of the solar  panel system, paid for by a loan, which would 
increase her monthly outgoings.  
Based on this, I think its unlikely  that she wouldve agreed to the solar panel system  and the loan with 
Ikano, unless she had been led to believe that her monthly loan repayments would be covered  by the 
financial benefits shed  receive meaning  the solar  panels would come at no additional financial cost to 
her. Therefore, I accept  Miss Ws version  of events.
Ive gone on to consider the paperwork that was provided to Miss W to see if there  was anything 
contained within it that made it clear that the solar panel system  wouldnt have covered her monthly 
loan repayments. There is limited information available from the time of sale and this service has only 
been provided  with the loan agreement,  the MCS certificate  and some of Miss Ws FIT statements.
Ive considered the loan agreement. This sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be 
charged, the total amount  payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly  repayments. This 
has been signed by Miss W. Im satisfied that this is clear and there is no reference to the solar panel 
system benefits covering  the monthly loan repayments. Having said that, as noted by our investigator,  
it doesnt make any reference to any potential savings and income  from the solar panels so I dont 
think it wouldve allowed  Miss W to compare  her  monthly loan repayments to any benefit  she may 
have received. 
This service hasnt been provided with a copy of the contract between S and Miss W. In my 
experience this would have set out the financial benefits that Miss W could  have expected  to receive 
from the solar panel system.  Ikano has said without this, it isnt reasonable  for this service  to rely 
solely on Miss Ws testimony to decide whether she was led to believe that her monthly  loan 
repayments wouldve been covered by the financial benefits  from the solar panel system.
Im satisfied that Ikano has been  given  sufficient opportunity to provide its own evidence as to why it 
feels the benefits  of the solar  panel system werent  misrepresented to Miss W. I find it disappointing 
that it didnt respond to our investigators request for its business file, and in response to the 
assessment, it didnt provide  any evidence to support its position.
Ref: DRN46495665Based on the limited information that I have, Im persuaded  by Miss Ws testimony, which I find 
plausible and credible, that she was told that her monthly loan repayments would be met by the 
benefits she would receive from her solar panel  system.  I think this is further supported by some 
paperwork that Miss Ws representative has supplied from a company that carried  out a survey of 
Miss Ws solar panel system two years  after it was installed. 
Although there  is limited  information about the purpose of this survey,  it suggests that after two years 
Miss W was unhappy with the performance of her solar panel system. This ties in with the term of the 
Ikano loan and I believe  supports Miss Ws complaint  that she was told that the benefits from the solar 
panel system would meet her monthly loan repayments. 
Ive thought carefully on the point made by Ikano that the system is performing in line with the MCS  
certificate. Whilst I understand and accept that the solar panel system is generating the estimated 
kWh as per the MCS certificate this still does not address the fact that Miss W was led to believe  that 
her monthly  loan repayments would have been met by the financial benefits  she should  have 
expected to receive from the solar panel  system.  
Fair compensation
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses  providing 
financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases  like this one, determining  fair 
compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at fair compensation taking account  of the 
particular circumstances.
My view of Miss Ws complaint is that it isnt so much  about the solar  panels themselves but that she 
was led to believe that the financial benefits she received  from them  would have been  sufficient to 
meet her monthly  loan repayments. And based on this I dont think  it would be fair or proportionate to 
require the removal of the solar panels from her home. Rather, Im minded to ask Ikano to put Miss W 
in a position  where  her monthly loan repayments would  have been met by the benefits  she received 
from the solar panel system.  By allowing Miss W to keep the panels, Im satisfied  that she will likely  
benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments going forward.  
By ensuring that Miss Ws monthly  loan repayments are no more than the benefits  she would  have 
received from the solar  panel system, it is likely that she would have overpaid each month. And as 
Miss W would  have been deprived of this monthly overpayment, I would expect  Ikano  to add 8% 
simple interest  from the date the overpayment was made until the date of the settlement.  
I also think  that the way that Ikano has dealt with the claim has caused Miss W trouble and upset. To 
recognise this, I think Ikano  should pay Miss W £100. 
My provisional decision
Subject to any further submissions I should  receive  from either party by (ONE MONTHS TIME), my 
provisional decision  is that this complaint should be upheld.
In full and final settlement  of it, Im minded to require Ikano Financial Services Ltd to:
5.allow  Miss W to keep the solar panels,
6.estimate the potential savings and income to Miss W from the panels over the two year term 
of the loan and rework it so that her monthly loan repayments are no more  than this. Where 
possible, it should  use Miss Ws FIT statements and electricity bills to do this;
7.add 8% simple interest*  to any overpayment made from the date of the overpayment  until the 
date of the settlement,
8.pay Miss W £100 for the trouble  and upset  caused.
Ref: DRN46495666*If Ikano Financial Services Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss W how much  its taken off. It should  also give her a 
certificate showing  this, if she asks for one, so she can claim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4649566