K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains about delays in British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) resolving  a fault with 
her boiler, and the costs she incurred because of this.
background    
Mrs C said that shed  had an intermittent problem with her heating,  which left the heating 
either stuck  constantly  on, or not working  at all. She said the problems started around 
January 2017,  and went on until the middle of 2018, when she complained, first to BGI then 
to us. Mrs C said she had a contract  with BGI for boiler repairs,  but BGI had taken far too 
long to fix this, and shed had to pay greatly increased gas bills as a result. She said her 
direct debit had gone  up by £10 a month. 
Mrs C said BGI had paid her £50 for this complaint, but she didnt think  that was enough  to 
make up for what had gone  wrong.  She wanted  us to look into the service BGI had provided.
BGI said that it had looked at the difference in gas used by Mrs C for around a year.  
Between 24 August 2017 and 2 September 2018,  shed used a daily average of 1.06 units, 
with total charges of £578.89.  Between 1 September 2016 and 24 August 2017,  shed  used 
a daily average  of 1.42 units, with total charges  of £743.95. 
BGI showed us the call-out  history for Mrs Cs property. It had replaced parts on a visit on 
23 May 2017. Then the next visit was 7 September, which BGI says was for the annual 
service. It returned to Mrs Cs property a number  of times in early 2018, on 29 January, 
3 February, 6 February, 10 February  and 12 February. The next visit was 15 April 2018.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He said BGI had found out that Mrs Cs annual gas 
usage was much higher for the year in question,  so he thought that BGI should pay Mrs C 
something to make  up for that. But he said that it would  be more accurate for BGI to 
compare gas usage for the actual times that Mrs C had been experiencing problems with her 
boiler, so he would expect it to do that if it could. 
Our investigator also said that BGI should  pay an additional £50 in compensation (making  
£100 in total) because of the delays involved in resolving this issue.  
Mrs C agreed  with this, and BGI has paid £50 more compensation to Mrs C, making a total 
of £100. Mrs C said that the problem was ongoing  from January 2017  to April 2018, so for 
around 16 months. She wanted  compensation for higher gas bills throughout that time. And 
that was what our investigator had suggested.
It looked like both sides would accept our investigators proposal. But then Mrs C said that 
the problem recurred  in August 2018, and the person who attended then said that there was 
still a fault on the boiler. Our investigator  said we couldnt consider this problem, as it 
happened after Mrs C brought her complaint  to us. 
BGI said that it just didnt  have the gas usage information for the exact times that Mrs C said 
that her boiler was faulty. It could only work with the information it had, which  was dependent 
on when meter readings had been done.  
BGI said that it knew that Mrs C had used an average of 1.42 units  per day between  
1 December 2015 and 25 May 2015.  And she had used an average of 1.17 units per day 
Ref: DRN41396322between 1 February 2017 and 9 May 2018.  (This second set of dates shows  lower usage 
than the first set, but it may not be comparing like for like.)
This case was then passed to me for a final decision. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-Mrs C told us shes had a lot of problems with her heating.  She says its been  entirely  
broken and not working, or stuck on and refusing to switch off, or stuck on in part of the 
house. She says thats why her gas usage  has been so much higher. She hasnt 
provided dates when this happened. She may simply not have kept detailed  notes  of 
when things went wrong.
-Weve asked BGI for more details about what happened on each of the callouts that its 
told us about.  In particular, weve asked it to tell us if Mrs Cs central  system was working 
when it attended, and if so if it was stuck on or not. 
-BGI says it cant tell us that. It says it doesnt keep notes which  are detailed enough to 
show this information. It hasnt explained what the notes it does have (which are in 
shorthand) mean  was done to the system.
-So I need to make a decision, using the limited  information I have. 
-It does look as if Mrs C has had a relatively high number of callouts. But BGI has told us 
she has an older style back boiler, so it isnt necessarily BGIs  fault if this is no longer as 
reliable as it once  was. 
-Mrs C says part of the problem is that BGI hasnt been  doing her annual  services. But 
BGI sent us dates  services were done, for 2017,  2018 and 2019. Those dates  match the 
system notes its sent us. I think its more likely than not that BGI has been providing  an 
annual service. I think if it hadnt,  Mrs C would probably have complained about this at 
the time.  
-But its clear that something did go wrong  in early 2018.  BGI visited  on five separate  
occasions, in quick succession. BGI has accepted  that two of these visits couldve been 
avoided. It says that the boiler wasnt working on 29 January, the first visit. It diagnosed 
the fault, and went back  on 3 February to replace  the circuit board. It said the problems it 
diagnosed on 6 and 10 February could have been avoided.  The strong suggestion here 
is that those problems ought to have been  picked up on the second visit. BGI said these 
further problems  wouldve been difficult to find on the first visit, as the boiler wasnt  
working then. 
-BGI said that it might also have been  possible to pick up, during these February visits, 
the problems which were then repaired a couple of months later, in April. But it assumes 
that the part which was replaced in April would have been  tested and run in February, as 
part of replacing  the sensor  and adjusting the pump  speed.  However,  given the number 
of visits BGI made to Mrs Cs home  in February, and the fact that problems were 
repeatedly missed then, I dont  think Im able to adopt BGIs assumption on that. 
Ref: DRN41396323-I think that at least two, and perhaps  three,  visits to Mrs Cs home in early  2018 werent 
necessary, and were  only made because BGI provided Mrs C with poor service at the 
time. BGI has paid her £100  in compensation. 
-Mrs C wanted BGI to pay a further £160,  which would be a contribution  of £10 for each 
of the months  that she said her gas usage  was above the normal level.  As theres only 
limited information available to me, Ive not been able to see that the problems that Mrs 
C says shes had with her heating over a period of about sixteen months have 
happened, and that its BGIs  fault for repeatedly  failing to repair her central heating 
during that time.  In particular,  I havent  seen anything that suggests to me that its BGIs 
fault that Mrs Cs heating was stuck  on for a prolonged period, leading  to higher bills. 
-But there was a problem in February 2018, and the failure to complete repairs promptly  
during that time was BGIs fault.  Because  Mrs C seems to have been without properly 
working central heating for about  two weeks, at the coldest time of the year, I do think  
that BGI should  pay her more than £100  in compensation. I think BGI should pay a 
further £150 in compensation, which will take the total amount up to £250. 
-Thats about the same  amount as Mrs C originally wanted to settle this complaint. But Im 
suggesting it for rather different reasons. So both sides  will have a chance to comment, 
and to send further  detailed  evidence  to support those comments, before I reach a final 
decision on this case.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mrs C and BGI both replied.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
BGI said that during its visit the boiler was not operational. It ordered parts and returned to 
fix the appliance. It accepted that the further  two visits  could have  been  avoided and its 
engineer should have  identified the additional  faults  when he replaced the circuit board.
BGI wanted  to remind me that Mrs C has a back boiler that ceased production many years 
ago. It said repairs to older boilers  can take longer to complete than with a newer appliance, 
mainly due to part availability.  BGI said it had already paid £100 which it felt reflected the 
inconvenience caused.
BGI says that parts availability can delay repairs with older boilers, but it has also accepted 
that the delay  in this case was caused  because  its engineer didnt identify additional faults 
when he did some work on Mrs Cs boiler.  And for that reason, she was left without heating  
for quite  some time,  around the coldest time of the year. I still think that a total payment of 
£250 is the right amount to make  up for that. 
Mrs C said shed only ever received £50 from BGI. She was happy to accept a total payment 
of £250. Ill set out my final decision,  so that BGI must show  that it has made  a total payment 
of this amount.  But I note that BGI has told us it has made two separate  payments on this 
complaint already, of £50 each. If thats right, and BGI has paid Ms C a total of £100  already, 
as it has said, then it still only needs to pay £150 more  now.
Ref: DRN41396324my final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited must pay Mrs C a total of £250 in 
compensation. British  Gas Insurance Limited can count towards that amount any 
compensation it has already paid Mrs C for this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 October  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4139632