K820x#14complaint
Mrs H, on behalf of herself and the estate of Mr C, says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mrs H and the late Mr C took out a mortgage  in 1995 in one of the banks branches  and 
bought PPI at the same  time. The policy was in Mr Cs sole name  and gave him protection 
against accident, sickness and unemployment.  They  paid a monthly  amount for the cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs H says she cant recall PPI ever being mentioned. I cant  know  what  was said in the 
meeting, but Ive considered Mrs Hs comments carefully. I also have to take into 
account how long ago the sale was and how that might  affect  what  she recalls.  Lloyds 
no longer has any of the paperwork from the PPI sale, but thats not surprising  or 
unreasonable given how long ago it was. Overall, without stronger evidence  I cant  fairly 
conclude that Lloyds  didnt make it clear  the PPI was optional, and Mrs H and Mr C 
didnt agree to take it out for Mr C.
Lloyds recommended the PPI and it seems to have been right for Mr C based  on what  
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mrs H has told us Mr C was entitled to six 
months full pay and six months half pay at this time but the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to this, and for up to 12 months  for each successful  claim. It also gave him up to 
12 months redundancy cover which would have allowed him to protect any lump sum 
redundancy payment from his employer, giving  increased financial  security  at an already 
difficult time. Mrs H has said that the PPI wasnt right as she had more than one job at 
the time,  but the policy was only in Mr Cs name so I need comment  no further on this. 
Mrs H and Mr C were borrowing quite a large  sum over a long period, secured on their 
home. So the effects of not keeping  up with the repayments could have been serious for 
them. Overall, I think  the PPI would have been  useful for them  if Mr C was sick, had an 
accident or lost his job.
Ref: DRN43586202Its possible Lloyds didnt give Mrs H and Mr C all the information  they needed before 
deciding to buy PPI. I dont know when the bank first made clear the cost or if it pointed 
out the main things  the PPI didnt  cover. But Mr C doesnt  appear to have been affected  
by any of the main  exclusions. And the PPI was competitively priced and apparently 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI wouldve changed their mind 
about buying it.
Overall, I dont  think Mrs H and the estate of Mr C have lost out because of any problems 
with the sale.  
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4358620