K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that MYJAR  Limited  (Myjar) gave him two loans that he couldnt afford.
background
Mr S took out two instalment  loans with Myjar. These are:
Loan  
numberBorrowing 
dateDate repaidLoan  
amountInstalments Highest monthly 
repayment
1 20/11/2017 30/04/2018 £450 6 £142.40
2 30/04/2018 outstanding £550 6 £165.12
Mr S says Myjar  was irresponsible in lending him money. He says his circumstances at the 
time meant that he shouldnt have been  lent money in the first place.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He concluded that 
the checks for both loans  were not proportionate  and that Myjar should have found out more  
about Mr Ss regular financial commitments. But if it had done this it would have  seen that 
both loans were affordable based on information provided to our service by Mr S.
Mr S disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for his complaint to be looked at again. 
As both parties still dont  agree,  Mr Ss complaint has been passed  to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loan was offered. 
I think the overarching  questions I need  to consider  in deciding  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Myjar, at the time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mr S would  be able to repay  in a sustainable way?
If not, would  those checks have shown that Mr S would have been able to do so.
Taking into account  the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall  pattern of 
lending increase Mr Ss indebtedness in a way that was otherwise unsustainable or harmful?
Did Myjar  act unfairly or unreasonably in some  other way?
If I determine that Myjar did not act fairly  and reasonably in its dealings with Mr S and that he 
has lost out as a result,  I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Myjar was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks to see whether Mr S could 
afford to pay back the loan before  it lent to him. Those checks  needed to be proportionate to 
things such as the amount Mr S was borrowing and the length  of the agreement.  But there 
was no set list of checks  Myjar had to do.
For both loans taken  out on 20/11/2017 and 30/04/2018, Myjar asked Mr S for information 
about his monthly  income and some of his expenditure. It asked about Mr Ss costs relating 
Ref: DRN46039432to housing and other  creditors. It also carried out a credit check. It used this information  when  
making a decision  whether  to agree to lend Mr S money. I do agree with our adjudicator,  with 
regards to the expenditure information it obtained in that I dont think  it went far enough when 
it agreed to give Mr S both of his loans. I think it should have carried out more  detailed 
checks on Mr Ss expenditure to include his regular monthly commitments  such as his bills. 
So because it didnt  do this I dont think it carried out proportionate  checks for either of the 
two loans.
For loan 1, Mr S told Myjar he earned  £1400  per month and had expenditure  of £225. But as 
I have already concluded he wasnt asked  about all of his regular monthly  commitments. If 
Myjar had done  this it would have seen  that he had additional expenditure. That said if it had 
done this, based on the information provided  by Mr S, it would have showed Myjar that the 
regular monthly loan repayment was affordable in comparison to Mr Ss disposable income. 
So I think that it would have looked as if Mr S would have been able to afford the repayment 
on the loan based upon Mr Ss declared  income  and the information Mr S has provided about 
his regular monthly expenditure. 
Mr S applied for loan 2 on the same  time he repaid the first loan.  He told Myjar he earned 
£1700 and his expenditure  was £150.  Again, Mr S gave this amount after Myjar asked him 
for his expenditure for housing and other credit.  Again,  if it had carried  out further checks  on 
Mr Ss other regular financial commitments; it would have seen that he had enough 
disposable income to meet the £165.12 monthly  repayment amount. So I dont  think  it was 
wrong to agree to lend to Mr S for this loan either. 
Mr S says Myjar  should have considered and asked  him for further information about his 
other short term lending  and if it had done  this, it would have seen that he couldnt afford the 
two loans. But as I have already concluded I think proportionate checks for these two loans  
involved asking Mr S about his monthly income and his regular monthly expenditure. I dont 
think at this stage  it was proportionate  for it to also ask him about  other  short term lending. 
This is because Mr S was a new customer and this was his first two loan applications with 
Myjar. The amount  he had requested along with the relatively small monthly  repayment  
amount in relation to his disposable income, suggests to me that asking him about  his 
income and regular financial commitments would have been proportionate at the time of 
either of the loans  he requested.
Mr S has said Myjar should have picked up on the financial problems he says he had when it 
carried out a credit check. I have looked at the information Myjar received from the check it 
carried out. From what I have seen, although it is not comprehensive, it doesnt raise 
concerns that would suggest to me that Myjar  should  have  carried  out further  checks  at this 
point.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr S, but I dont think Myjar was irresponsible  to lend to him at the 
time that it did.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2019 .
Ref: DRN46039433Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4603943