K821x#15complaint
Ms A complains  about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled two employment claims on 
her legal expenses  insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes its agents  and claims handlers. 
background
In 2015, Ms A made a claim  on her policy to cover  the legal costs  of a dispute  with her 
employer. After initially declining the claim, Aviva later accepted  it and provided  cover for 
Ms As chosen solicitor to act on her behalf.  
In 2017, Ms As employer dismissed her. So she made a separate  claim for unfair  dismissal.  
Aviva initially  declined  the claim, but later agreed  to provide cover and said the two claims 
would be merged. 
Ms A has complained and the main points are as follows:
1.It took three months  to secure cover for her first claim after the initial rejection. This 
delay detracted  from case preparation.
2.There were  delays  throughout  the life of the claim which  affected  the solicitors  ability  
to manage the tribunal claims.  
3.The second claim was incorrectly declined, and she had to obtain a legal assessment 
at her own cost in order to get cover. When the claim was accepted  five months  later, 
Aviva didnt  backdate  funding  to cover the costs shed paid.
4.The two claims have  been merged, leaving her with only one limit of indemnity.
5.The handling of her complaint was unsatisfactory.
To put things right, Ms A wants Aviva  to:
1.apologise and pay compensation for the distress caused  by the delays to her claims 
and the poor complaint handling;
2.deal with the two claims separately, with each benefiting from the full indemnity limit;
3.reimburse the costs  shes  had to pay privately; and
4.pay interest on late repayments. 
Our investigator partly upheld the complaint. He said Aviva should pay £100 compensation 
for the late repayment  of legal costs which Ms A had paid. This is in addition  to the £50 it 
already offered. But overall, he was satisfied  with the handling of both the claims and the 
complaint, so he didnt  recommend Aviva do any more. 
Aviva accepted our investigators recommendations, but Ms A didnt. She says there are 
errors in the investigators view; he hasnt taken  into account all the relevant points; and has 
departed from the law without good  reason. 
So the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst Ive considered all the complaint 
points and taken  account of everything  Ms A has said,  I dont intend  to address every point 
individually. I have  focused on the key points Ive identified above.
Ref: DRN42324772Under the provisions  set out in the regulators handbook1, insurers should  
handle claims promptly and fairly;
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress;
not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); and
settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Ive considered these  requirements when looking at how the claim was handled. Ive also 
taken into account  the policy terms, which set out the relationship between Ms A and Aviva, 
and my overriding  duty to decide whats fair and reasonable. When doing this, Ive taken into 
account that once cover  was in place, Ms As lawyers had conduct of the litigation.  Aviva 
wasnt responsible  for handling the legal action;  its responsibilities were  limited to dealing  
with the insurance  claim and providing  cover for costs.
The policy terms set out whats  covered.  There is cover for employment disputes but, as with 
all insurance policies,  there are conditions  and limits on the cover provided. The maximum 
that will be paid for any one claim in Ms As policy is £100,000, for costs which it has agreed 
to and authorised.  Theres no cover  for costs  incurred  before Aviva has given  its written  
agreement and authorisation.
discrimination claim 
The policy terms say a claim must have prospects of success, which means  it must be more 
likely than not that the policyholder will win their case, and that the costs  are proportionate to 
the value of the claim. These terms are common in legal expenses policies. They mean  
insurers dont have  to meet  costs for claims  that are unlikely to be successful  or where  the 
costs are too high compared to the value of the claim. I dont think  this is unfair.  Court  action 
can be expensive. A privately  paying  customer wouldnt want  to pay the costs  of a court 
case if advised its unlikely to succeed  and it wouldnt be reasonable to expect an insurer  to.
I would expect an insurer to get legal advice  before  deciding whether a claim has reasonable 
prospects. And the insurer is entitled  to rely on that advice, unless its obviously wrong. 
Ms A submitted her claim  concerning discrimination, with supporting documents,  in October 
2015. Aviva  did seek legal advice, passing  it to a barrister to assess. The barrister  confirmed 
that, in her professional opinion and based  on the information available,  the claim wasnt  
likely to succeed. So the claim was declined on 9 November  2015. 
Ms As solicitors  replied  on 2 December 2015. Aviva passed their comments back to the 
barrister but the barrister  didnt change their opinion.  It wasnt until 29 December 2015 that 
the solicitors provided additional evidence which satisfied the barrister Ms As discrimination 
claim did have a reasonable  chance of success. This was confirmed on 11 January 2016, 
and cover was put in place for this on 19 January  2016.
Where an insurer has declined cover  in such a case,  its not for me to assess the merits of 
the underlying  case. I look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. So long as it has got 
advice from suitably qualified lawyers, its reasonable to rely on that advice, unless it was 
obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes. The barrister gave a properly reasoned 
1 ICOBS 8.1
Ref: DRN42324773advice. Until further evidence was provided that proved otherwise, it was reasonable for 
Aviva not to provide cover. 
I appreciate Ms A says this delayed  the preparation  of her case. But I cant  see that Aviva 
took longer than necessary to take action on the claim. It handled all correspondence 
promptly and referred  the matter back to the barrister three times to assess  the merits. Im 
satisfied it didnt cause  any avoidable delays assessing the claim. 
claim handling 
In May 2016, Aviva  asked the solicitors  to provide details of their costs so that it could  
approve these. It reminded them it was only covering costs for the discrimination issue. 
The solicitors replied  in June 2016  with details of their costs  and disbursements;  which  
included a conference with counsel. This conference  went ahead  before Aviva had approved 
the costs, and counsel confirmed their opinion was in line with Avivas own barrister.  
However counsel had said on speaking with Ms A, they were  persuaded the sex 
discrimination element  had prospects and that it wouldnt  cost much more  to fund it 
alongside the race discrimination claim. 
Aviva gave approval for the solicitors  costs and disbursements retrospectively.  And it said 
that if counsel put their opinion on the sex discrimination claim in writing, Aviva would fund it. 
There was no response from the solicitors  for almost  three months. 
In their reply  of September 2016, the solicitors  confirmed their delay was due to sickness  
and annual leave.  By that point, a claim for victimisation had been added. A preliminary 
hearing had been listed for October and a full hearing of 25 days  had been listed for 
April 2017. Details of the costs required were provided. 
Aviva advised that until it had confirmation the sex discrimination and victimisation claims 
had reasonable prospects of success, there was only cover for the race discrimination 
element. Costs for this part of the claim were authorised. 
In December 2016, Aviva asked for an update on the claim.  The solicitors provided  this. 
along with counsels  confirmation that the victimisation claim had reasonable prospects. 
They asked for further costs to be authorised. 
Aviva was in the process of agreeing these costs  when  it was contacted by Ms A who 
advised that she wanted to change solicitors. She provided details of the new firm in 
January 2017.  And Aviva sent its terms of appointment to them.  
Ms As new solicitors  provided details of their costs to prepare  for a case management 
hearing listed for 31 January 2017. Both Ms A and the solicitors chased  Aviva several times 
for this authorisation, which was provided  four working days  later. 
Ms A informed Aviva that her previous solicitors  had raised  concerns to her about the 
difficulty theyd experienced getting  authority for their costs.  Aviva said it had been  about to 
authorise the costs  when  Ms A changed solicitors. Aviva confirmed it had agreed  her new 
solicitors costs going forward.
Ms As new solicitors  later provided  details of counsels fees to attend the case management 
hearing. And Aviva was in the process  of agreeing these costs  when Ms A told Aviva she 
Ref: DRN42324774wasnt happy with these solicitors. She asked Aviva not to authorise  any further costs until 
these issues were  resolved. 
The solicitors then contacted Aviva  with their concerns over Ms As conduct. They said she 
was failing to cooperate  with them and counsel  and her actions  put her at risk of adverse 
costs. In early February 2017, the solicitors confirmed to Aviva  they were  no longer prepared  
to act for Ms A. 
Ms A asked Aviva to appoint a direct  access barrister  to take over conduct of her claim. 
Aviva sent its terms of appointment but the barrister  didnt agree the terms. He said his 
hourly rate was more than Aviva  had offered to pay. Aviva offered a small increase to the 
rate previously offered. It referred to the policy  terms and conditions in respect of what  the 
policy will pay.
As terms  couldnt be agreed with the direct  access barrister, Ms A provided  details of 
another firm of solicitors.  She asked that Aviva fund their costs to represent  her in a 
preliminary hearing listed for early March 2017  and that the barrister be retained as counsel  
on the case. Aviva sent its terms of appointment to these  solicitors and authorised  the 
barristers costs to conduct  the case until these solicitors were  able to take over.  
An updated  assessment of the claim confirmed all elements had reasonable prospects  of 
success. So from that point, Aviva  accepted  cover  for race and sex discrimination, 
harassment and victimisation. 
In March 2017, Aviva were contacted  by a new firm of solicitors. They  said theyd been 
instructed by Ms A and had already  carried out work  including  attending a hearing.  They  
wanted funding  backdated to cover  the costs  already incurred.
Aviva put cover in place  for these  solicitors subject to them agreeing  its hourly rate. But this 
wasnt agreed. After  some  negotiations,  a rate was agreed which was higher than the policy  
terms provide for.
In early April 2017, Ms A raised concerns about these solicitors to Aviva.  The solicitors then 
told Aviva  they were no longer instructed on the case. Ms A went  on to instruct a new direct  
access barrister.  Terms  of appointment were agreed  and costs  were authorised within  five 
working days. 
In early May 2017,  the new barrister  advised Aviva that Ms A had dis-instructed him mid-way  
through the hearing. He said there had been a limited time before the hearing to get up to 
speed with all aspects  of the claim  and many of the issues  involved werent  evident  from the 
papers. This meant much of the cross examination of the other side had involved a great  
deal of input from Ms A, so shed decided to represent herself. 
From everything Ive seen, I havent  been able to identify any unreasonable  delay by Aviva  
during this claim. I appreciate  there  is an urgency with employment tribunal claims that are 
inherently stressful and have short deadlines. But Aviva still has a process  to follow  when 
authorising lawyers to act under the policy and agreeing their costs. It generally dealt with 
the various lawyers  correspondence and requests for indemnity within its five working day 
service standards.  
I also appreciate Ms A was unhappy  with her legal representation at various times. But the 
multiple changes  of lawyers have  more likely  resulted  in the delays to progressing the 
Ref: DRN42324775matter. I say this because Aviva has had to agree terms of appointment for each new lawyer. 
Its had to consider  their estimated  costs and authorise these, as well as dealing with cost 
invoices from the previous  firms   something it normally  wouldnt  deal with until conclusion   
whilst ensuring the claim itself progresses.  
There were a few occasions where  Aviva was carrying out work to authorise an appointed 
lawyers costs, only to be informed that lawyer had already been dis-instructed  by Ms A. I 
think this demonstrates that had Ms A remained with one lawyer,  her claim would likely have 
progressed more quickly. Ive also noted  that Aviva has agreed hourly rates higher than the 
policy allows  for  and covered some costs retrospectively; something it didnt have to do 
under the policy  terms. For these  reasons,  Im satisfied with the handling of the claim. 
With regard to the legal fees paid privately, Aviva agreed to reimburse £1,100  which Ms A 
had agreed to pay her lawyers in February  2017. She provided evidence of the 
disbursement in December 2017. Aviva sought  confirmation it had been paid, which  she 
provided the same day. Aviva acknowledges it was slow to process this. 
To put things right, Aviva  offered £50 compensation. Our investigator thought this should be 
increased by a further £100  giving  a total compensation  payment of £150 for the trouble 
and upset caused. Aviva has agreed this. I appreciate that waiting for this money to be 
reimbursed would have  been upsetting for Ms A. But taking into account the amount of time 
involved (a matter of weeks rather than months).  I think this is fair in the circumstances. 
unfair dismissal claim
In October  2017, Ms A was dismissed  from her employment for gross misconduct.  This 
arose from her alleged behaviour at the preliminary hearing for the employment tribunal 
claim in January. She made  a claim to Aviva for cover for the unfair dismissal case. 
Aviva arranged for the claim  to be assessed by a barrister. In his opinion the claim didnt 
have reasonable prospects of success. Ms A provided her comments  on the advice, which 
the barrister considered. But whilst  his view of prospects  increased,  he didnt think the claim 
was proportionate to pursue. So on that basis, Aviva  declined the claim. 
Ms A submitted further comments  on the advice, which the barrister addressed in a third 
opinion in January 2018. He confirmed that based  on what Ms A had now said, his opinion 
had reverted back to what hed initially thought; that the claim didnt have  reasonable 
prospects. 
As Ms A didnt agree,  she sought her own barristers opinion.  This said the claim for unfair 
dismissal did have  reasonable prospects.  And that there were claims for race discrimination, 
victimisation and protected disclosure detriment that, whilst all having difficulties, would be 
strengthened by the unfair dismissal claim. On receipt of this advice, Aviva  confirmed it 
would consider covering the claims.
I appreciate the frustration  for Ms A that her claim was declined. But as I said for the first 
claim, its not for me to evaluate the merits of the underlying claim. Aviva sought legal advice 
on this, and went back to the barrister  for a reassessment on two occasions to ensure 
Ms As further comments were considered. I wouldnt expect it to do any more  in these 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN42324776I dont think Aviva declined the claim incorrectly or unfairly, and I dont think it was necessary 
for it to backdate  funding to October  2017. I understand Ms A was paying her legal costs 
privately during  this time.  But under the policy terms theres no cover  for costs incurred 
before Aviva  has authorised them in writing. For me to ask Aviva to reimburse her, Id have 
to be satisfied it acted  inappropriately  when declining cover.  
merging claims
Aviva agreed to cover the unfair dismissal claim but said that as it related to the same series 
of events as the first claim, the two would be merged. This meant Ms A would only be 
entitled to one limit of indemnity under the policy.
Ms A disagreed. She said the two claims were  completely separate, since  the first claim 
related to incidents that took place in work and the second claim related  to a one-off incident  
outside the workplace. Ms As advising barrister commented that as the unfair  dismissal  
claim could  not have been joined to the first claim as it had already been heard, it must  have  
been separate. He says it was separated by both time and concept.
The policy terms say, You can only make one claim for all disputes  arising  from the same  
incident.  
Incident is not defined in the policy. So Ive thought  about  what is fair and reasonable, 
taking into account  the policy terms and the circumstances  of the case.  Having done so, I 
think it was appropriate  for the claims to be merged. 
Both claims  arose from the same series of events and had it not been  for the first claim,  the 
second one wouldnt  have arisen. In particular, Ms A was dismissed because  of her alleged  
behaviour at a hearing from the first claim.  So they are not completely separate  matters.  Ive 
noted a comment  in one of the legal opinions that the dismissal  brings to a head and 
focuses events in what has been  a long running dispute which I think is a fair summary. 
This wasnt a situation where the earlier dispute  was resolved and a later date a different 
dispute arose, which wasnt connected to the earlier one. The discrimination claim arose out 
of a series of incidents. Those incidents  led to the dispute between Ms A and her employer. 
That in turn led to the dismissal, which would not have happened  but for the earlier events 
and was a consequence of them.
I appreciate Ms As barristers comments that the unfair dismissal claim could not have  been  
joined to the first claim. But Im not looking  at whether these claims should have been heard 
together in the employment tribunal or whether they should have been pursued  as one legal 
action. I have to decide  whether, for insurance purposes, these claims arise  from the same  
incident. And for the reasons given, Im satisfied they do. I think  its fair and reasonable in 
these circumstances  to treat them as one claim, with one indemnity limit. 
complaint handling
Ms A made a complaint  to Aviva. She says she spoke  to the complaint handler and agreed 
the issues that needed investigation. And this was followed up with an email  setting these 
out. She also asked  for the complaint  to be prioritised.  But Aviva took eight weeks to 
investigate and respond to the complaint. And the final response letter  didnt address all the 
issues. 
Ref: DRN42324777As our investigator has explained, Aviva isnt under  an obligation to prioritise a complaint. 
The complaint handling rules set by the regulator  allow Aviva up to eight weeks to provide its 
written final response.  There might  be some situations where it would be reasonable to deal 
with a complaint  more  quickly  if, for example, the customer is particularly vulnerable. That 
isnt the case  here. I wouldnt  say Aviva did anything wrong by taking the time allowed under 
the rules.  
I can appreciate it would be disappointing for Ms A that Aviva failed to address all the issues 
that were agreed  between  the parties, especially when shed taken the time to set these out. 
But Ms A has been able to escalate her complaint to our service when she wasnt  happy with 
Avivas response to it. So I dont think shes suffered a detriment as a result. For this reason, 
Im not inclined to award any compensation here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  the complaint. I direct  Aviva Insurance  Limited  
to pay Ms A compensation of £150  in total.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4232477