K820x#14Complaint
Mr P complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) did not properly 
administer his accounts, resulting in a default  being unfairly placed on his credit file.
Background
Mr P had two AMEX credit card accounts,  which I will refer to as Account 1 (his active  
account) and Account 2 (his inactive account). Account 2 was closed, but due to a technical 
error by AMEX, statements were still being  generated. 
Mr P asked AMEX to stop sending statements for Account 2. But AMEX stopped sending 
statements for Account  1 and continued  to send them for Account 2. 
The balance on Account 1 increased as a result  of spending and monthly subscriptions. 
AMEX defaulted  Account  1 when Mr P didnt  make any payments for three months.
But Mr P said he had no way of knowing what his balance was, and he disputed some of the 
charges, transactions and interest accrued. 
Mr P complained to AMEX. He said it allowed unauthorised payments to be made from his 
account. He also complained that AMEX had sent incorrect statements, been poor in its 
administration and imposed unfair interest and charges. He said AMEX also shouldnt have 
shown a default on his credit  file as the account  was in dispute.
AMEX upheld part of his complaint relating to sending incorrect  statements and offered  £300 
as a gesture of goodwill.  Mr P didnt accept this and complained to our service.  
Our investigator thought the offer of £300 made by AMEX was fair. He said although AMEX 
had made  a mistake  by sending the wrong  statements,  he thought Mr Ps spend on 
Account 1 was probably authorised by him, and he would  most  likely have been aware of the 
monthly subscription payments as they had been  active before he stopped getting 
statements. So, he didnt think AMEX had been unfair in refusing to cancel  the charges and 
interest accrued.  He also thought AMEX  had acted reasonably in defaulting the account and 
registering this on Mr Ps credit file.  
Mr P didnt accept the investigators view, so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. Since referring the complaint, AMEX and Mr P have  agreed  a financial settlement, 
and Account 1 has been cleared and closed.
Mr P wants  AMEX  to amend his credit file to show the default settled, or the entry  removed 
altogether. AMEX are unwilling to do this as they state they have correctly shown the default 
on Mr Ps credit file as partially settled as this reflected the terms of the settlement.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The only matter remaining in dispute is 
what AMEX have recorded on Mr Ps credit  file.
Firstly, I have considered if I think AMEX was fair to default Account 1, and record  this on 
Mr Ps credit  file. And I think  it was. I have seen from the account statements that Mr P didnt 
make any payments to the account  for four months  at the end of 2018. And Ive seen that 
Ref: DRN42646892AMEX complied with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) requirements on writing to 
consumers who are in arrears and sending a notice of default.  
So, although  Mr P was disputing the balance on the account, having looked at the evidence  I 
am satisfied  that AMEXs  findings, that the purchases made on this account were probably  
authorised by Mr P, was reasonable. And Mr P chose  not to make at least  the minimum 
payments on the account as he was contractually obliged to do. So, I think  it was fair and 
reasonable for AMEX to default the account.
Having decided that AMEX was fair in recording the default on Mr Ps credit file, I need  to 
decide if it has been fair in amending the file to show the default as partially  settled and not 
settled or deleted entirely as Mr P wants. Businesses are required to accurately record  
consumer credit history. The ICO has clear  guidance on this, and also what  should happen 
to default entries  when  the debt is cleared.
In summary,  the ICO states that where  a lender agrees to accept a lower payment in 
settlement of an account, it would expect the lender  to mark the default entry to show  the 
consumer no longer has the debt outstanding.  But they would generally expect the business 
to mark the entry as partially settled or partially  satisfied. This shows the consumer no 
longer has the debt outstanding but also that the debt was not fully repaid.
I dont propose to detail  the terms of the settlement agreed between  AMEX and Mr P to clear  
Account 1, as these  are well known to both parties. However, it is necessary for the clarity of 
this decision, to say that Mr P repaid approximately one third of the outstanding balance, in 
full and final settlement  to clear his account.
Having taken all of the above  into account, I am satisfied that the original  default  marker was 
recorded fairly, and AMEX have followed the ICO requirements in a fair and reasonable way 
when it amended the entry to show the debt partially settled. So, I dont require AMEX  to do 
anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4264689