K821x#15complaint
Mrs J, through her representatives, complains that Aviva Life Services  UK Limited made an 
unsuitable recommendation to her and her late husband, Mr J. She says they were  
recommended a whole of life policy which wasnt needed.
background
In December 1989, Mr and Mrs J took out a whole of life policy with Aviva. The sum assured, 
to be paid on the second death, was £100,000 and the premium price was £53.72  a month.  
The policy was subject  to regular reviews.
A week before taking  out the policy with Aviva, Mr and Mrs J had taken  a similar whole of life 
policy with a second company, which Ill call D. The sum assured on that policy (also to be 
paid on the second death) was £106,075 and the premium price was £40 a month.
Unfortunately Mr J passed away in 1991.  Mrs J continued with both policies and in 1994,  the 
Aviva policy was reviewed. At this point it seems Mrs J appointed a new financial advisor  
and made  some changes  to the policy (including having it written  into trust).
The Aviva policy was surrendered in May 2006 and £9,709.21 was paid to Mrs J at that 
point.
In 2018 Mrs J complained  that the Aviva  policy had been mis-sold. She said, amongst other  
things, that the policy  was unnecessary  and no other means of limiting inheritance tax 
liability was discussed.
Aviva initially  said this complaint was out of time, as Mrs J had complained more than six 
years after the sale and more than three years after it felt she should reasonably have  
known there  was cause  for complaint. However, it has now consented to us considering the 
complaint.
One of our investigators  looked into the merits of Mrs Js complaint. They found the Aviva 
policy had been  mis-sold.  They said Mr and Mrs J had been over-insured by having both 
policies. They thought it most  likely  that Mr and Mrs J would have disclosed the existence of 
the policy from D, so the recommendation  from Aviva was unnecessary and unsuitable.  
Aviva didnt agree. So the complaint was referred to me for a decision.
On 20 March 2019, I issued a provisional decision explaining why I didnt intend to uphold 
Mrs Js complaint. Aviva didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mrs Js representatives 
disagreed with my findings, raising further  points which Ive considered below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mrs Js representatives have raised 
concerns that my decision  is based on opinion rather than facts.  Id like to assure them that 
Ive taken all the known facts into account. But where the evidence  is unclear or 
contradictory, as it is here,  Ive made  a decision based on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened at the time.
Ref: DRN44111472Theres no contention that Mr and Mrs J applied for two whole of life policies in 1989 and 
both policies were  set up. Mrs J surrendered both policies some  years after her husbands 
death, receiving the respective benefit from each.
What I need to decide is whether Avivas  recommendation to take its policy  was reasonable 
in Mr and Mrs Js circumstances, as they appeared at the time. And overall I think  it was.
Its important to note that this sale took place almost  30 years  ago  and the policy was 
surrendered over a decade ago. There isnt much documentary evidence  from the time.  
Mrs Js told us that her husband  dealt  with their financial affairs, so theres also very little 
testimony about what happened at the time of sale. So Ive looked at the information we do 
have.
Avivas provided a significant changes  form, which  it says was a supplementary document 
that would  have been completed by Mr and Mrs J at the time of sale. The more  detailed 
financial planning questionnaire is no longer available.
Mrs Js representatives have raised a concern that although some documents  are available,  
the one they regard as most  important  is missing. Whilst this is unfortunate, I dont agree 
that its strange  or unusual for some documents to be unavailable almost  three  decades  on 
from their creation. And I dont think it would be fair to penalise  the business for not keeping 
those records, given  there was no legal or other requirement for it to do so. So I dont think  
the absence of any one document should  necessarily be taken to mean Aviva didnt give 
suitable advice  at the time.
The significant changes  form states that Mr and Mrs J had a taxable estate of £550,000. 
Theres no information about what assets or investments formed part of that estate. Theres  
also a note to say that both Mr and Mrs J had applied  and been  accepted  for life assurance 
with a separate company,  L, earlier in the year.
The form  which both Mr and Mrs J signed   goes on to say that current [inheritance tax] 
liability is £500,000.00. At this time I would like to reduce the tax liability  of my heirs  by 
£100,000.00 using the [Aviva whole of life policy]. An additional note from the advisor  
mentions that Mr J was aware the policy  was not a complete solution to reducing the tax 
liability on his heirs  at that time. Theres a suggestion that he and Mrs J might  look to place 
some existing investments into trust, to remove them  from the estate.
All of which I think shows there  was a detailed conversation around the reasons for taking 
the Aviva  policy  and Mr and Mrs Js financial needs at that time.
Mrs J has said,  through  her representatives, that the Aviva policy was unsuitable because 
she and Mr J already had a similar  policy from D, which gave a higher  benefit for a lower  
monthly cost. Shes provided some application documents  from D, which  give more detailed 
information about the couples  assets at the time.  Those suggest their total assets were no 
more than £306,000. Mrs J argues that the policy from D was therefore  more than enough to 
cover the inheritance tax liability and she and Mr J were over insured after accepting the 
second policy from Aviva.
I take Mrs Js point  and agree that it appears she and Mr J had more cover  than needed  by 
taking two policies   even if their estate were the higher value of £550,000. But I dont agree 
that this was due to a failing by Aviva.
Ref: DRN44111473I say this because  I cant  see any indication that Aviva was told about the policy 
Mr and Mrs J had taken with D. Id have expected this to be noted  given that theyd clearly  
discussed other policies they held (such as the life assurance with L). Mrs Js 
representatives have  agreed with this point  and they say the error must be Avivas, as 
Mr and Mrs J would  have had no reason not to disclose the policy with D.
The advisor, on the other hand  in the opinion of Mrs J and her representatives   would 
have had incentive not to note details of the policy with D, as it would have made Avivas 
recommendation unsuitable. While I appreciate that view,  Im not persuaded any such 
manipulation occurred here.
Ive kept in mind  that there was only a week between the two applications.  And the policy  
with D wasnt yet in force when Mr and Mrs J made  their application to Aviva. It seems that 
Mr and Mrs J approached  both companies  independently about the policies  I havent  seen  
anything to suggest either was sold as an add-on  to another  product. And Mrs J kept both 
policies running  through  several  financial reviews  involving different financial advisors. She 
surrendered both policies (at different times) when she found herself in need  of funds.
I dont know why Mr and Mrs J chose to apply for and take out two similar policies. But from 
everything Ive seen, I think they were aware they had done  so and were happy  to keep both 
running simultaneously. 
Mrs Js representatives have said that Mr and Mrs J were nave about financial matters,  
which is why they needed advice from numerous  advisors over the years. But I dont think  
lack of knowledge of financial matters and seeking  financial advice  go hand in hand. Its 
sensible for even those with a wide experience of finance  to seek  advice from specialists or 
experts at different  times. So Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs J were  wholly  ignorant of 
their overall financial position.  They had the benefit of both policies and theres nothing to 
suggest having both was unaffordable. While  the cover might  have been more than they 
required, Im not persuaded that Aviva was made  aware of this. So I dont think its done  
anything wrong  that it needs to provide compensation for.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Cara Goodbody
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4411147