K821x#15complaint 
Mr C has complained that QIC Europe  Ltd has unfairly increased the cost of his pet 
insurance at renewal.
background
Mr C took out a lifetime  cover pet insurance for his pet in 2017.
When Mr Cs policy was due to renew in 2018  he received a renewal  invitation  where  the 
price of the policy had increased by more than 100%. Shocked  by this increase Mr C 
complained to QIC and was told his premium had been calculated correctly.
As Mr C was unhappy with QICs response  to his complaint  he brought  it to this service for 
review.
Our Investigator  considered Mr Cs complaint and didnt think  QIC had given Mr C clear 
enough information about the long term costs of the policy, when he took it out. She thought 
QIC should have  given Mr C clear information  so that he could make an informed choice  
about whether  or not to take the policy.
The Investigator thought Mr C would have been  caused considerable trouble and upset  
when he received his renewal document, and that QIC should pay Mr C £500 in recognition  
of this.
QIC didnt agree so this complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mr C took out, will continue  to cover  any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made. 
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide, 
and I dont have  the power to tell a business  what its insurance should cost.  I would be, in 
effect, determining  or telling a business how it should operate   and thats not my role. So I 
cant say the cost of Mr Cs policy is too high or he should have been charged less for the 
policy.
While Mr Cs premium  saw significant increases, I havent seen any evidence to suggest  
QIC treated  him differently to how it would have treated any other  policyholder in the same 
Ref: DRN44530882position. So I cant say QIC singled him out and treated him unfairly compared  to its other 
customers or that QIC needs  to offer him cover  for a lower premium going  forwards.
Mr C was sold his pet insurance policy via a price comparison  website  on a non-advised 
basis. When selling insurance without giving advice, providers need to give clear enough 
information so that the customer can make an informed choice about the policy  theyre 
taking out. These rules  are set out in ICOBS.
At the time Mr C bought  his policy  ICOBS 2.2.2R said:
When a firm communicates information, including a financial promotion, to a customer  or 
other policyholder, it must take reasonable steps to communicate it in a way that is clear,  fair 
and not misleading.
I cant see that Mr C was given enough  information  when  he applied  for his policy that would 
have made  him aware his premium  could increase significantly in the future.
Mr Cs policy  documentation states:
"At the renewal of your policy we may change the amount of your premium,  fixed  excess or
percentage excess: and/or make  changes to the policy wording or cover  offered."
 
Mr C would have had to read this document carefully to find this information. And I dont 
think this was good enough  to make him aware of the potential long term costs  of the policy.  
I dont think Mr C would have been aware that his premium could increase so significantly 
after the first year.  I would have expected QIC to give him more information  about the 
potential future costs of his policy including the main  things that would cause a significant 
increase such as claims, the pets age, and increasing vet costs. And from what Ive seen, it 
doesnt look like QIC gave  Mr C any of this information, to allow him to understand he could 
end up in a position where he couldnt afford to carry on with the policy. 
The information QIC gave  Mr C when  he took the policy should have been clearer. Mr Cs 
pet was very young and he was taking  a policy that he thought would cover his pet for its 
entire lifetime.  I think Mr C would have been very surprised at renewal to find the price of his 
insurance had increased so much,  having  been insured for just one year. Mr Cs pet now 
has ongoing medical conditions, so he has found it difficult  to find equivalent cover  
elsewhere. He had to make a difficult decision to either pay the high premium  (which would 
probably have  continued  to increase for the rest of his pets life) or cancel the policy  and take 
out a different policy with less cover. 
QIC didnt give Mr C the information he needed  to understand he could end up in the 
position he found himself in. Mr C has now moved his insurance  to another  provider  and his 
pets medical condition  isnt covered  this isnt what he expected when he took out a 
lifetime policy. And I think the lack of information provided by QIC has caused Mr C a 
significant amount  of upset, some of which could  have  been avoided had he been given 
better information when  he took the policy out. 
QIC doesnt agree with the compensation amount suggested by our Investigator. It says 
Mr C made  significant claims during the period of insurance and the compensation amount is 
higher than the amount  Mr Cs premium was increased.
Ref: DRN44530883I recognise Mr C has benefitted from having  the policy. But any award  I make  isnt to 
compensate him for financial loss. Its about  the impact the lack of clear information  provided 
by QIC has had on Mr C, both practically  and emotionally. I think  this lack of information has 
caused Mr C significant trouble  and upset and £500 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint  and require QIC Europe Ltd pay Mr C £500 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4453088