K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Capital One (Europe) plc wont refund a large number of credit card 
payments that he says he neither  made nor authorised. 
background
Between August 2016 and December 2017 a number of payments  were made from Mr Ds 
credit card account to five different, but linked, websites. The payments were made under 
continuous payment  authorities (which are used  to pay for subscriptions, for example) and 
amounted to nearly £4,000. Each of the websites was the billing provider for adult websites. 
Mr D says he didnt set up the payment authorities  and didnt let anyone  else use his card 
details to do so either.  
Capital One looked into things, but wasnt persuaded  by what  Mr D said.  In summary, it said:
 The websites had confirmed that Mr Ds name and correct  address and email were 
used to sign up to them.  It was unlikely a fraudster  would have  operated in this way. 
 There would have  been no financial gain to a third party. Fraud of this kind is unusual.
 The IP address  used to sign up for the sites was close  to his home abroad.    
 The card wasnt used for any other types  of transactions.  
Mr D told us that he was often away for several  weeks during the summer, when the initial  
registrations took place. He would  have left his laptop and credit card in his apartment,  and 
his laptop wasnt  password protected. While  he was away, his upstairs  neighbour had a leak,  
and the building administrator had to let in builders who were fixing it; they might have been  
responsible. 
Mr D said he seldom checked his online statements, as he rarely used his Capital One card. 
One of our investigators  issued a preliminary  view on Mr Ds complaint. She concluded that 
it was more likely than not that Mr D had either made the transactions  himself  or authorised  
someone else to do so. Mr D asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached the same overall 
conclusions as the investigator did. 
There is little conclusive evidence one way or the other here. I have therefore decided what  I 
think is more likely  to have happened. I cant rule out the possibility that what Mr D has told 
us and Capital  One is true, but there  are more credible explanations.  I note at the outset  that 
Mr D hasnt been able to provide anything to support his statements that he was away from 
his home  when the payments were  set up, that workmen attended while he was away or 
even that repairs  were needed  and that access to his flat was necessary. Hes provided 
plausible explanations as to why that might be, but I dont find them  particularly persuasive. 
Capital One says that there was no financial gain from a fraudster using  Mr Ds account in 
this way. Mr D disagreed, since a fraudster  would have  obtained  access to sites they would 
Ref: DRN45121732otherwise have had to pay for. I agree with Mr D up to a point on this  and fraudsters may 
have motives other than pure financial gain. But it is not irrelevant that there was no attempt 
to use the card details  to buy tangible goods.  
I note as well that it was over a year until Mr D realised  there  was anything wrong. Again, his 
explanation  that he didnt check his statements  is not implausible, but again I dont find it 
persuasive. I note as well that Capital One did contact Mr D about the payments, but it was 
another four months before he said they werent  authorised. 
Finally, Mr D says Capital  One should have alerted him to the payments  well before it did. 
Since I believe he was responsible for them, that would  be an unusual conclusion for me to 
reach. But for the sake of completeness, I dont think Capital One had any such  obligation   
especially to alert Mr D to his own actions. 
In the circumstances, it wouldnt be fair to require Capital One to make refunds in this case. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Capital One (Europe) plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Mr Ds complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4512173