K821x#15complaint
Mr G is complaining that Arval UK Limited has charged him additional charges at the end of 
a hire agreement.
background
Mr G entered into hire agreement through Arval  in March 2016 to lease  a car. Mr G returned 
the car in August  2018  at the end of the agreement and he says an inspector came  out and 
checked it. He says the car had rust on the alloys  but he says inspector told him that it all be 
would covered by the manufacturers  warranty. Mr G says the inspector also said that rust to 
the diamond cut alloys was a "very  common  problem" with this make and model of car and 
Mr G said that the investigator had said hed come across this many times  before. 
Mr G then received an invoice for £435  for the damage to the car  £240 for the rust on the 
alloys and £195  for a small dent on the bonnet.
Mr G thinks its unfair hes being  charged for the rust on the alloys as he thinks  it should 
have been covered by the warranty. He says that he offered to get the repairs  done  under 
the manufacturers warranty, but he didnt get a response. He also thinks charging £195 for a 
minor stone chip is excessive. He says Arval initially said it would waive  the charge for the 
stone chip, but its now charging it in full.
Arval said that the car had been  assessed against the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing  
Association (BVRLA) guidelines as to whats considered fair wear  and tear. And it said that 
the guidelines say any corrosion to alloy wheels isnt allowed.  It said all of the alloy wheels 
were showing  signs of corrosion. It said that Mr G should have reported the corrosion to it 
before returning  the car or a main  dealer for while it was within the warranty period.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. And I said the following:
Theres no dispute that, under the terms of the lease  agreement,  Arval  is entitled to charge 
Mr G for damage to the car thats considered to be more than fair wear and tear. My role in 
this decision is to assess at whether it was fair for Arval to charge for the damage it says 
was present when  Mr G handed  the car back.  
Mr G thinks its unfair hes being  charged for the damage to the alloy wheels because he 
says he was told that Arval wouldnt charge him for that. He said he could have got it 
repaired for free if hed not been  given false information. 
Arval has assessed  whether  the damage is outside  of fair wear and tear by using guidelines 
set out by the BVRLA. Its not unfair  that it did so.
The guidelines  set out that dents  on the roof or swage line on any panels  are not 
acceptable. While I dont dispute that the dent is small, it is on a swage line  a narrow 
profiled line in outer body panels. So Im satisfied that it was also fair for Arval to say that this 
damage was more than fair wear and tear.
I note Mr G thinks the amount that Arval has charged for the damage is excessive. But I 
havent seen anything to say that the amount its charged was unreasonable.  
Ref: DRN42803852The BVRLA guidelines also set out that it considers any damage to the wheel spokes and 
the hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable. Ive looked at the issues Arval has raised  in 
respect to the alloy wheels and I dont necessarily think it was unfair  for it to say that it was 
fair for Arval to say that this would be considered more than fair wear and tear, given the 
BVRLA guidelines.
However, despite this, I dont think Mr G should  be responsible for it and Ill now explain why.
Mr G has set out that the engineer who came  to inspect the car said that this was a known 
issue with diamond  cut alloy such as the ones on this car. Ive looked at the photographs  of 
the alloy wheels  and the damage is particularly prevalent in the centre of the alloy wheels. If 
the damage was down  to impact damage, Id expect to see more  damage to the side of the 
alloys. And I think this supports Mr Gs assertions that this is more down to an inherent 
defect of the alloys as opposed to being  caused  by his actions.
It appears that the issue Mr G has had with his alloys  is a known issue  with the type of alloys 
on the car. And it seems that this was corroborated by the inspector. Im also conscious that 
Mr G still had two weeks  left on his hire agreement when he handed it back.  So he said he 
still had time to resolve the issues himself  potentially  through the manufacturers warranty.  
Hes suggested that he advised the inspector  that hed like to have the opportunity to do so, 
but he says the inspector advised  him that he wouldnt be charged for the damage. And, if 
this was an inherent defect as was suggested, its quite likely that this may have been 
covered by Mr Gs manufacturer warranty. 
I note Arval says that the inspector was independent and not its representative, so it doesnt 
think it should be held liable for what he said. But the inspector was appointed by Arval. So I 
think it was fair for Mr G to assume that he was acting as Arvals representative. And 
because of this, Im inclined to say that I dont think its fair that Mr G is liable to pay for the 
damage charge  given  I think  its most  likely he would have acted differently had he known.
However, even if this wasnt the case, Ive also thought  about  whether it was reasonable to 
expect the faults  with the alloys to develop on the car, taking into account the cars age, 
price and mileage  i.e. whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. 
Mr G acquired  the car under a hire agreement. Legislation  in this case  the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implies a term into the hire agreement that the car must  be of 
satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance  provider, Arval  was responsible for the 
quality of the car its provided under the agreement.   
In deciding whether  this car was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cash price, its mileage  and age. In this case,  the car was brand 
new at the point of supply.  So the issue I have to decide is whether a reasonable person  
would expect to see the problems Mr G has experienced  with the alloy wheels around three 
years after receiving it  in short whether the car was sufficiently durable.  
All parties  have described the damage to the alloy wheels  as rust or corrosion. I think that Mr G 
was reasonably entitled to expect the alloys  to be free from rust or corrosion  for the time hed 
had it. Arval hasnt  given me anything to suggest that this is down to Mr Gs driving style and, as 
I said above, it seems to me that this is down to an inherent defect of the alloy wheels.
Ref: DRN42803853So Im inclined to conclude that the issues with the alloys would have made  the car of 
unsatisfactory quality.  And the CRA required Arval to put this right.  So taking all this into 
account, Im inclined to conclude that Arval isnt entitled to charge Mr G for the cost of 
restoring the alloy wheels.
However, I remain of the belief that the damage to the swage line was as a result of 
accidental damage.  Ive thought about whether Mr G could have got this repaired for less 
than what Arval has charged  £195. And I havent seen anything to suggest that the 
amount Arval has charged an unfair  charge. So Im not persuaded that he could have been 
able to repair the dent to the swage line for less than he was charged. So I still think  its fair 
for Arval to charge the £195 for this.
Mr G accepted my provisional  decision.  Arval said Mr G hadnt paid the invoice, so it said 
there wont be any interest payable. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything further  to think  about,  I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reach in my provisional decision. So I uphold  this complaint 
for the reasons I set out in my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require Arval UK Limited to reduce the amount its charging Mr G to £195. 
I understand Mr G hasnt already paid more than this. But, if he has, Arval UK Limited should 
refund the extra hes paid.  It should also pay 8% simple interest  on this from when he paid it 
until he gets it back. If Arval thinks its required to deduct basic rate tax from this interest, it 
should give Mr G a certificate to show how much  tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4280385