K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs E say they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a 
mortgage. Lloyds  Bank  PLC has accepted  responsibility for the sale, so to keep things 
simple Ill only refer to Lloyds in this decision,  rather than any other business.
Background
Mr and Mrs E took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1995.  Mr and Mrs E paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered the mortgage 
payments in case Mr E was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Es case.  
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs E, I have not found that this policy  was mis-sold 
 Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Es mortgage application  had a section for PPI, which offered them  the choice to 
take it out or turn it down. It looks like the box to buy PPI was ticked,  and Mr and Mrs E 
signed the form to confirm  their choices. I can also see it was checked that Mr E was eligible 
for the policy  the form reminded customers that they couldnt choose PPI if they werent 
eligible. Then the mortgage offer set out the details of the policy theyd chosen and set out 
its cost separately to that of the mortgage itself. Ive not seen anything  which  shows Mr and 
Mrs E were  told they had to take PPI  it seems to have just been an optional extra. And Ive 
not seen any wider problems with the banks sales process from the time.  Taking  everything 
into account, I think its most likely that Lloyds  made  Mr and Mrs E aware they had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
Lloyds recommended the PPI for Mr E, so it had to check  it was right for him. And based  on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks  like Mr E 
was eligible for the cover  and wasnt affected  by any of its main exclusions or limitations. 
Mr E had some benefits through  work,  though he couldnt remember how much  these were. 
But the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those benefits, and it offered him significant cover  to 
fill in any gaps in his existing protection. I also understand Mr and Mrs E had some savings, 
though the mortgage  application records that these were only a relatively small  amount.  And 
the PPI meant they could protect their savings and use them  for other things. Ultimately, its 
worth bearing in mind  that if Mr and Mrs E fell behind on their mortgage payments they 
couldve lost their home. So it seems sensible to have  insured Mr E in order to protect  their 
home and give some  peace  of mind.
Ref: DRN42983182Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs E about PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs E chose to take out PPI, which  indicates  
they wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr E wasnt  affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve been useful in case  something went 
wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much  it would pay out in a claim, and 
Ive not seen any indication it was unaffordable.  And the PPI was paid on a rolling  monthly 
basis, so Mr and Mrs E could cancel it at any time without a penalty.  Overall, I dont think  
that better  information  was likely to have put them  off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 August  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4298318