K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Canada Square  Operations Limited (trading at the time of sale as Egg)  mis-sold 
him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in August 2001.  The policy and 
card ended in 2009.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint.  Mr H disagreed so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Mr H says the sale took place over the phone. Egg says it was carried  out on their website. I 
can see from the sales documentation provided that the sale was more  likely taken out 
through an online application, so will proceed that this was the case.
I dont think Egg gave advice, so I dont need  to consider whether the policy  was suitable. It 
did need to provide clear information so that Mr H could make  an informed decision.
Ive decided to not uphold  Mr Hs complaint because:
I am satisfied that Mr H chose to protect  his credit card repayments,  knowing there  would 
be a cost to do so. Egg has provided a screen shot of what Mr H would have seen when 
he applied for the card. The screen  shot shows PPI being presented.  It broadly describes 
the purpose of the cover and sets out its cost,  right next to where it appears Mr H would 
have clicked a box saying Yes  to the cover. There was the option to say No so I think 
Mr H would have known  about  the PPI policy and also that he had a choice to have it.
The information Egg gave Mr H about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
But it doesnt look as if better information  would have put Mr H off anyway based on what  
Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time. He says he had 2 months  full sick pay. 
I am persuaded  based on what I have seen,  that Mr H would  have found  the benefits  
provided by the policy useful  in a difficult time over an extended period to cover  him in 
addition to his sick pay. The cost of the PPI policy was relatively low (compared to others 
in the market). And the policy provided  Mr H with a safety net, at a good level of benefit, 
which with his circumstances at the time of sale, he would have considered  useful if he 
needed it.
I couldnt find anything else within the policys terms and conditions that would have put 
Mr H off buying it like a restrictive  or significant  term,  at the time of sale.
Ref: DRN44251092 In conclusion, I have  not been  able to find any grounds to uphold this complaint about  the 
mis-sale of the PPI policy.  This means Egg dont have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr H. But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Mr H about  that. Because Egg didnt  tell Mr H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4425109