K821x#15complaint
Mr M and Miss D complain about  the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has dealt with a claim 
they made on their home insurance after their property was damaged by a leak.
 
background
Mr M and Miss D told UKI theyd  noticed damp and water in their ground floor rooms  on 
11 June 2018.  UKI agreed to meet their claim.
By 23 June  it was clear  the repair work would be extensive: the property needed to be dried  
and only once that had been done  could repairs begin. UKI discussed  alternative 
accommodation with Mr M and Miss D, offering various solutions.
The leak was fixed by 2 July. On 12 July Mr M told UKI Miss D was seriously  ill, and UKI 
suggested he look for alternative accommodation, and that it would do the same.  Mr M said, 
about a week  later, that he and Miss D couldnt stay in a hotel, as UKI offered,  as she would 
be recovering from an operation, so they would  have  to stay at home.
There were several delays with the drying  process, but the house  was certified as dry by 
27 September.
Mr M complained about the delays and the service he and Miss D had received. UKI sent its 
final response on 11 October. It apologised and offered £250 compensation to make up for 
the poor service  and delays. 
Mr M and Miss D didnt think that was fair and brought their complaint  to us. Our investigator  
didnt think UKI had done enough to support Mr M and Miss D throughout the claim, nor had 
it been pro-active  about finding  alternative accommodation for them.  She thought this had 
caused a lot of unnecessary distress and inconvenience  for Mr M and Miss D, and that a 
total of £600 better reflected this.
UKI says it hadnt previously been able to look at the issue  of alternative accommodation, as 
that wasnt part of Mr M and Miss Ds complaint. It said it had done more than our 
investigator thought,  and explained what it had done. Our investigator  looked at the new 
information but still thought that £600  was fair.
Mr M and Miss D say they were offered £9,000  for alternative accommodation   but this 
hasnt been mentioned by UKI.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first say that this complaint only looks at what  happened during Mr M and Miss Ds 
claim up to the point UKI issued its response to Mr M and Miss D  that is 11 October 2018. 
UKI has commented on the fact that Mr M and Miss D didnt bring their complaint to us until 
Ref: DRN43274402the end of December. I dont  think thats relevant: Mr M and Miss D had six months to bring 
their complaint to us and they did that.
UKI has acknowledged that it caused unnecessary delays during  this claim, and that its 
service  and that of its contractors  was poor. As theres no dispute  about this Ill limit my 
comments to the amount  of compensation Mr M and Miss D should receive.
Whenever a customer finds a problem with their home, and has to make a claim, there  is an 
unavoidable amount of upset and inconvenience. UKI isnt responsible for that, but it is 
responsible for any unnecessary distress  and inconvenience it causes.
UKI is also required to make reasonable adjustments if it knows  one of its customers is 
vulnerable or ill. In this particular complaint, it knew Miss D was seriously ill a month after the 
claim started.  I cant  see that UKI did anything  substantive to support Mr M and Miss D 
through a very difficult time  which included Miss D having to recover  from an operation in a 
house undergoing extensive  repairs.
UKIs own notes say that on the same day Mr M rang to say how Ill Miss D was it said it 
would look for alternative accommodation for them  and suggested  Mr M also look.  UKI 
says it later sent Mr M and Miss D an email about  an apartment but they didnt respond.  
Mr M and Miss D say they didnt get this, and as they couldnt  find anything suitable  they had 
to stay in the house. So they agreed  to accept a disturbance allowance.
I dont think UKI did enough here. Theres no suggestion that it ever followed up the email 
about the apartment  nor did it make any further attempt to find alternative accommodation 
for Mr M and Miss D. I dont think thats  acceptable given Miss Ds ill health.
I can see that UKI promised to try to speed  things up for them  but that didnt  materialise 
into anything.  Instead Mr M and Miss D were left having  to chase for the allowance  and to 
find out what was happening with the claim and why it was taking so long. I accept that some 
of this was because of the contractors UKI appointed  but its responsible for their actions 
as part of the claim. UKI also asked Mr M and Miss D to get quotes for work  that it then 
disputed. It could have avoided that by explaining  what it could and couldnt pay for, but 
instead seems to have  asked Mr M and Miss D say what  they wanted.  
Mr M and Miss D say they were offered £9,000  for alternative accommodation,  and that UKI 
havent been honest about this. There isnt anything  about this in UKIs notes, but I dont 
doubt Mr M and Miss Ds recollections.  However,  this doesnt affect my decision. Thats  
because I wouldnt expect  UKI to give Mr M and Miss D this amount instead of paying for 
alternative accommodation. It has paid a disturbance  allowance  whilst their home was being  
dried out, and I think this is fair.
Taking everything into account,  I think the £600 compensation recommended by our 
investigator is a fair way for UKI to make  amends  for its poor service in these circumstances.
Ref: DRN43274403my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I order U K Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr M and Miss D £600 compensation. It can deduct the £250 it offered if thats already been 
paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss D 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 January  2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4327440