K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that RCI Financial Services Limited  applied a default marker  on his credit  file 
after it terminated his finance agreement.
background
In December 2014 Mr D was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase  agreement 
with RCI. The total amount  of credit was £14,076.50 and the term was for 36 months with 
monthly repayments of £246.85 followed by a lump  sum payment of £7799.92.
RCI wrote  to Mr D in September, November and December 2017 to let him know that his 
agreement was coming to an end and setting out the available options. Mr D says he 
returned his documents to RCI in December  2017 confirming that he wanted to pay the lump 
sum by instalments.
RCI says it didnt receive Mr Ds documents. There was no further communication  between 
the parties until March  2018 when RCI contacted Mr D and advised him that it might default 
his agreement if he didnt  contact them.
On 11 April 2018 Mr D contacted RCI. RCI told Mr D that the agreement  hadnt been 
terminated and agreed to send him further  documents to complete and return  so that he 
could pay the lump sum by instalments. Mr D agreed to return  the forms by 13 April 2018.
Mr D didnt return the forms by the deadline.  On 23 April 2018 RCI issued a termination 
letter. Mr D returned the forms by email on 30 April 2018 and asked RCI how he could pay 
the arrears which  had accrued since the beginning of the year.  RCI didnt respond  to the 
email. In June 2018 RCI terminated the agreement and placed a default marker o Mr Ds 
credit file.
Mr D has since  reached agreement with RCI to pay off the arrears and the lump sum. Hes 
unhappy because  he doesnt feel that the default marker should  have been registered on his 
credit file.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint and said that RCI should amend Mr Ds credit file. The 
investigator said it had been made clear to RCI that Mr D intended  to pay the lump sum by 
instalments and felt that in between issuing the termination letter  and applying  the default  
marker RCI could have processed Mr Ds forms and set up his monthly payments.
RCI didnt agree. It said the agreement ceased to be in force as soon as the termination 
letter was issued and that the termination  letter had been issued before Mr D returned his 
documents. RCI said the reason for the delay between the termination letter being issued 
and the agreement being physically terminated  was due to a system  error.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the calls between Mr D and RCI in April 2018.  Its clear that Mr D wanted  to 
pay the lump sum by instalments.  RCIs system  notes show  that this was agreed and Mr D 
was asked to return  his documents by 13 April 2018.
Ref: DRN42941832Mr D didnt return the forms by the deadline.  I might observe that the deadline  was very short  
and 2 days could  be seen as unreasonable. RCI issued a termination letter on 23 April 2018. 
I cant see that RCI made any attempt to contact Mr D before it issued the termination  letter.  
Given that Mr D had made it clear on 11 April 2018 that he intended to set up a  direct debit 
to pay the lump sum by instalments, I think RCI should have taken steps to contact him one 
more time before  it took steps to terminate the agreement. If RCI had contacted  Mr D and 
warned him about the possibility of a termination letter I think its likely that Mr D would have 
returned the documents straightaway. In the circumstances I think  it was unfair  of RCI to 
issue the termination letter.
Mr D emailed the forms to RCI on 30 April 2018. Im satisfied that the forms were  received  
by RCI on this date but I cant  see that RCI took any steps to acknowledge the email or 
respond to Mr Ds query about how to pay the arrears.
RCI hasnt provided  any explanation for not acknowledging Mr Ds email. It has said that the 
email was received  after the termination  letter was issued which meant  that the agreement 
had ceased to be in force. Im not persuaded by this explanation because  I think  it would 
have been possible  for RCI to re-open the agreement. The fact that the agreement wasnt 
physically terminated  until June 2018 suggests to me that it hadnt  been terminated at the 
time when  Mr D retuned the documents.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account I think RCI issued the 
termination letter unfairly and failed to process  Mr Ds documents  when it could have done. If 
RCI had done  this there would have been  no need to terminate the agreement and register a 
default marker on Mr Ds credit file.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  RCI Financial Services Limited  should  
contact the relevant credit reference  agencies  and ask them to remove  the default marker  
registered against Mr Ds name.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4294183