K820x#14complaint
Company T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt comply with its instructions when 
making a foreign-exchange transaction.  Its being  represented in this complaint by a director.
background
Company Ts director went to a branch of Barclays with a written  request for it to make  a 
foreign exchange  payment  but the payment was made in Sterling - and not the foreign 
currency - which  Company T says has caused it a loss of £5,412. It complained  to Barclays  
and says that it should reimburse it for the loss. It wasnt satisfied with Barclays response so 
complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that the 
payment request was inputted onto its system by Barclays teller who then printed out a 
payment instruction showing that the transfer  was to be made  in Sterling. The payment 
instruction was then initialled by Company Ts director and the investigator said that it was 
reasonable that the director wouldve checked  and signed it given that the amount being 
transferred was quite  large. So she didnt think that Barclays  had been unreasonable  in not 
reimbursing Company T for the loss that it had claimed.
Company T has asked  for its complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. Its director  says 
that it was Barclays that made the mistake  in not following its clear  and concise written  
instructions duly signed  in accordance  with the mandate held, which it admits to, and yet 
Company T is being held totally responsible. And the director  says that Barclays  didnt 
exercise a duty of care over such a large  transaction and asks why anyone would send a 
foreign exchange  remittance  to another foreign currency account in Sterling.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Company Ts director went to a branch of Barclays in January 2019 with a written request for 
a substantial foreign  exchange payment. Barclays teller  inputted  the payment details into 
Barclayss system  and printed out a payment instruction and a customers confirmation. But 
the teller had inputted an instruction for the payment to be made in Sterling and not the 
foreign currency that was specified on the companys written  request. 
Company Ts director initialled the customer confirmation in four places  including 
immediately adjacent to a statement that the currency that the payment to be sent in was 
pounds Sterling. Company Ts director says that he wasnt requested  to check  the document 
by the teller but he scanned the payment instruction and initialled it but didnt think for one 
second that the payment  would be sent in Sterling.
But Company Ts director initialled the customer confirmation to confirm details of the 
payment. The confirmation was clearly  headed  customer confirmation and I consider that 
the initials on the confirmation confirmed  that the details on the confirmation  were correct. 
Theres no dispute that the teller  had inputted the instruction  incorrectly but the purpose  of 
the confirmation is for the customer to check and confirm  that the details set out on the 
confirmation are correct.
Ref: DRN47538172Company Ts director accepts that he didnt check the details on the confirmation  had he 
done so he wouldve seen that the payment was to be made in Sterling  and at that time he 
couldve corrected the error and the payment could then have been made as intended.  But 
the payment was made on the basis of the inputted instructions  which had been confirmed 
by Company Ts director. 
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Barclays to reimburse Company T for the loss that it says that its incurred, to pay 
any other compensation to it, or to take any other action in response  to its complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Company Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Company T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 October  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4753817