K820x#14complaint
Mr C says St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mr C bought the policy in 2005 after he took out a credit card in 2003. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint because:
 This policy was taken out in 2005  after the credit card was taken out in 2003. In my 
opinion, I think its more  likely  than not that Mr C ought  to be reasonably  aware that the 
PPI was separate to and not a condition of the credit  card - given  the time between  
both sales. 
I also think that if the PPI had been added without Mr C realising, that hed quite 
reasonably have questioned what he was paying  for when  the PPI premiums  appeared 
on his monthly credit  card statements.  But the evidence is that it remained in place for 
some time after it was taken out.
Ive also considered what we know more widely about how St Andrews sold PPI 
during phone calls around the time this policy was taken out. Ive not seen supporting  
evidence that they didnt  follow their normal sales process during this sale.
On balance, I think its more likely  than not that St Andrews made Mr C aware  that he 
had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that he chose to take it. 
 St Andrews recommended the PPI to Mr C, and I havent seen evidence that it wasnt 
right for him - based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
Our adjudicator made an information  request to Mr Cs representative to help establish  
a clearer picture of his circumstances at the time of the sale, but no information  has 
been provided. So I can only consider the available evidence alongside making  some  
reasonable assumptions. 
 Its possible the information St Andrews gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr C doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to him. 
Ref: DRN43487062So I dont  think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Based on the available evidence, I dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4348706