K820x#14Complaint
Mr H and Mrs M complain  that Bradford & Bingley Plc (Bradford & Bingley) mis-sold them  a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
Background
Mr H and Mrs M arranged  a mortgage with Bradford & Bingley in May 1989.  Sometime  later, 
in February 1996,  they were sold a MPPI policy that covered Mr H only against accident, 
sickness and unemployment. The sale was arranged in a meeting. The policy ended in 2000 
when the mortgage was transferred into Mrs Ms name only.
Mr H and Mrs M say they were mis-sold the policy. They  say it may not have been suitable 
for them although they were led to believe having the policy  was beneficial  for them. They  
also say they thought  they would both be covered and were  surprised  to discover that they 
werent. They also say that the exclusion of Mrs M from the policy could have  greatly 
affected them. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr H and Mrs M dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr H and Mrs Ms case. 
Mr H and Mrs M say they were under the impression the policy  would have covered them 
both and that the exclusion  of Mrs M from the policy could have greatly affected them. Ive 
seen what Mr H and Mrs M have  said and have looked into this.
Having looked  at all of the information provided  by both sides,  I agree that it doesnt look as 
if Bradford & Bingley  set up the policy so that both Mr H and Mrs M were  covered. But its 
likely that however the policy  was set up and who it covered the cost of the premium  would  
have been the same each month. This is because the cost of the policy  usually relates to the 
amount of benefit  that it would pay out. 
Although the policy only covered Mr H, which is something Mr H and Mrs M say was not 
right in their circumstances, the cost wouldnt have changed if the benefit  had been split by 
them. This means that Mr H and Mrs M would have only been  worse off if Mrs M  who was 
also a wage earner  at the time - had needed  to make a claim,  but I have not seen anything 
to suggest this was the case. So because of this I dont think  Mr H and Mrs M have lost out 
due to the policy being set up in Mr Hs name  only.
Whilst I cant say why Mr H and Mrs M chose to take the policy  I can see from the 
application form that they made the decision  together to take PPI  even though its also 
possible that they may have changed  the cover later. I simply dont know for sure.  
Ref: DRN43949042I have also looked  at whether there  were  any other  reasons  that Bradford & Bingley mis-sold  
the policy to Mr H and Mrs M. Having done  so, Ive decided not to uphold their complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
I looked first at whether Mr H and Mrs M were given  a choice to have the MPPI policy or not. 
When I consider this, I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mr H and Mrs M during 
the meeting in 1996. After  considering the documentation  that Bradford & Bingley  has been 
able to provide,  including a copy of the application  form for the sale, I am persuaded that                          
Mr H and Mrs M were  given an option to have  MPPI  in the meeting  and informed of its 
details. 
I can see that Mr H and Mrs M signed a separate MPPI agreement to have MPPI. In addition  
the policy was added  several years  after they had their mortgage in place. So I think  they 
would have known  they had a choice to have it for these reasons. Mr H and Mrs M say they 
were led to believe having the policy was beneficial to them. I think  Bradford & Bingley more  
likely recommended they have the policy and they agreed to it. 
Given that Bradford  & Bingley recommended the MPPI to Mr H and Mrs M it had a 
responsibility to ensure  the policy was suitable  for them.  Based on what  Ive seen of Mr Hs 
circumstances at the time, I think it was. Ive seen that Mr H says he was entitled to good 
sick pay at the time of sale.  However,  the MPPI  cover would have  been  useful in a time of 
need and would have provided a benefit in addition to any sick pay he received.  It would  also 
avoid the need to have  to deplete any other financial resources, such  as savings
Ive also noticed  a question arose as to whether Mr H was self-employed.  From the enquiries  
our adjudicator has made it seems more likely that Mr H was in fact employed  and therefore 
wouldnt have been affected by any policy limitations  which  might have made it difficult  to 
make a successful claim. 
Bradford & Bingley  has provided some information  about the costs relating to the MPPI that 
Mr H and Mrs M took out. But I cant be sure if it clearly disclosed the cost of the policy   
with an initial  monthly premium of £13.50  when  they took it out. That said, even if it did, I 
dont think it would have  affected their decision to take the policy  with their mortgage for the 
same reason  that I think  the policy was suitable   that it provided useful cover for Mr H for 
when he needed  it.
Its possible Bradford & Bingley didnt point  out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But 
its unlikely Mr H and Mrs M wouldve been affected  by any of these.
Overall, I consider that the policy provided  Mr H and Mrs M with a useful additional benefit 
for a reasonable cost to protect their home in the event that it was necessary for Mr H to 
make a claim.
 
Ive noted that Bradford & Bingley have offered compensation  due to an overpayment  that 
occurred after the policy was transferred from Mr Hs to Mrs Ms sole name. In this decision 
Ive been looking  solely at the question  of whether the MPPI was mis-sold  including the 
question of whether  the policy only being set up in Mr Hs name,  rather than jointly, is a 
factor. So it remains open  to Mr H and Mrs M to accept that offer, if they have not done so 
already. 
In conclusion, although I know this will come as a disappointment  to Mr H and Mrs M, I do 
not uphold their complaint for the reasons given.
Ref: DRN43949043My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I am not upholding this complaint as I dont think the PPI was 
mis-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 October  2019.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4394904