K820x#14complaint
Miss P has complained  that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) declined a claim  she 
made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA) after she took out a point of 
sale loan with it to pay for a surgical procedure and aftercare for her partner.  She would like 
a refund of the payments she made  towards  the loan because  her partner is unhappy with 
the result  of the procedure. 
Miss P has been represented by her partner throughout but, to make  things  simpler,  Ill 
mainly refer to Miss P. 
background
In June 2017, Miss P paid £6,500 for a surgical  procedure and aftercare  for her partner 
using a point of sale loan provided by Shawbrook. A company, which Ill refer to as K, 
carried out the surgery and provided  the aftercare. I understand that the surgery and 
aftercare came with a guarantee that if the procedure wasnt successful, Miss Ps partner 
would be able to have further  surgery and aftercare at no additional cost.   
Miss Ps partner was unhappy with the results of the initial  surgery and aftercare.  K offered 
Miss Ps partner a second procedure, but following on from this it went  out of business. The 
second procedure  therefore never happened.  
Miss P raised a claim with Shawbrook under section 75 for breach  of contract. She also 
complained that K pressured her to enter into the agreement with Shawbrook.  She 
requested a refund of the payments  shed made  towards the loan. Shawbrook  declined the 
claim because  it didnt  think that the necessary  requirements for a claim to be made under 
section 75 had been met. 
As the matter remained unresolved, Miss P referred  her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt  think that Shawbrook acted unfairly in declining  the claim. He said the 
contract for the surgery  and aftercare was between  K and Miss Ps partner. Therefore, 
because Miss P didnt  have a contract with K, he felt the conditions  for a claim to be 
considered under section 75 hadnt  been  met. He also said that he didnt think there was 
sufficient evidence to show Miss P was unfairly  pressured into entering into the agreement.  
Miss P disagreed with the investigator. She said the payments come  from her account and it 
shouldnt matter that its her name on the loan agreement. 
Miss P has asked for an ombudsman to review  her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P paid for the surgery  under a regulated consumer credit  agreement with Shawbrook.  
Our service is able to consider complaints about these types of agreements. 
When considering  if Shawbrook acted fairly in declining  Miss Ps claim,  I need to take 
account of the relevant law. In Miss Ps case, section 75 of the CCA  makes Shawbrook 
Ref: DRN41895582responsible for a breach  of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier, under certain  
conditions. One of these conditions is that there must be a direct  relationship  between  the 
debtor (Miss P) the creditor (Shawbrook) and the supplier (K). 
The CCA defines a debtor as the individual receiving credit under a consumer credit 
agreement. In this case, thats Miss P as she entered into the finance  agreement with 
Shawbrook. K however  provided the surgery to Miss Ps partner  and Miss P herself received 
no goods or services  from K. 
Although we dont  have  all the paperwork issued by K relating to the surgery  and aftercare, 
we do know that Miss Ps partner received the surgery  and that he consented to it. Given  the 
invasive nature of the procedure, I dont think I could fairly say that anyone other than 
Miss Ps partner contracted with K. And due to the type of service provided, I dont think the 
surgery can relate to Miss Ps joint affairs. Considering this, I dont think that 
Miss P was a contracting party  with K. 
The fact the payments come from Miss Ps account  would also not make  her a contracting  
party with K. 
I appreciate Miss Ps strength of feeling  that Shawbrook should  be liable for what  has 
happened  especially since  K is no longer trading. But Im considering the actions of 
Shawbrook and its liability under section 75 and Im not persuaded the necessary  debtor-
creditor-supplier arrangement exists for a valid claim against  it. 
Ive also thought about Miss Ps complaint about the manner in which the agreement  was 
sold. Its difficult for me to make an assessment on how much pressure was applied.  Theres  
no contemporaneous evidence of what was discussed. The copies of text messages 
between Miss Ps partner  and the salesperson from K dont mention anything about the way 
the agreement  was sold. Miss P has said she felt pressured, but I still find it was her choice 
to decide whether to enter into the agreement. She signed it and didnt attempt to cancel or 
withdraw from it. Before signing the paperwork I think she was also shown pre contract  
information that set out the key features  of the agreement. On balance,  I dont think  theres 
sufficient evidence for me to safely conclude that Miss P was unfairly pressured into entering 
the agreement. 
For the reasons  given  above, I dont think Shawbrook acted unfairly  in how it handled 
Miss Ps section 75 claim.  And I dont  think she was unfairly pressured  into entering into the 
agreement. Therefore, I wont be recommending  Shawbrook takes  any further action here.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2019.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4189558