K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr S says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear  that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he may not remember  this.
I say this because  Ive seen a signed copy of Mr Ss postal  credit card application. 
Beneath where  Mr S has signed the overall  credit  agreement theres a statement that 
says I wish to purchase optional Capital One payment Protection Insurance. A tick 
has been placed next to this option and Mr S has also signed  separately in this 
section to agree to take PPI.  
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for him. But it did have  to make  sure Mr S got the information  he needed to decide if 
it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him 
off taking out the cover.  
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr S, that 
was unfair.  
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - including what hes said about his existing 
means of making  his repayments if he was unwell  and unable  to work. But I still think that 
Mr S could have found the PPI useful. I say this because:
othe PPI would have paid out for longer  than Mr S received  full sick pay for;
Ref: DRN47705702oalthough Mr S has told us about savings he had, the PPI policy  could have 
paid out longer than Mr Ss savings likely would have lasted for. 
Having this PPI policy  would also mean  that Mr S would have the option  of 
not needing to rely on his savings to help make his credit card repayments  
and instead hed be able to keep  his savings intact  for future use or have the 
option of using his savings to help pay for other  living expenses he may have 
had.  
 So these  points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019,
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4770570