K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the terms  offered  to him when  he applied for a life assurance policy 
with AIG Life Limited. He says that AIG unreasonably amended  its offer which  resulted in his 
premium increasing. He therefore could not accept  the offer.  
To resolve  his complaint,  Mr P would like AIG to offer him the terms he received with the 
unrated premium.  
background
Mr P spoke with a third-party adviser regarding a life assurance application. On 29 May 
2018, AIG received an application which Mr P says was for £250,000 of life cover for a level 
term of 20 years (policy ending #213)  this would  provide cover for Mr P until age 90. Within  
the application, several material disclosures  were made about Mr Ps health. 
AIG reviewed the application and noted  that Mr P had answered yes to a question  asking if 
he had ever had diabetes.  As a result, several further questions were  asked  about  that 
diagnosis, which the application recorded to have occurred when Mr P was aged 59.  
The following  day, the adviser altered Mr Ps answer  to no as he had given further 
clarification to confirm he had not actually received a diabetes  diagnosis.   
However, based on the original answers, AIG felt it necessary  to seek further information 
from Mr Ps GP. In June  2017, the GP initially said Mr P had been diagnosed  as diabetic 
whilst living overseas  (he had returned  to the UK two years before seeking  the insurance).  
The GP issued a revised confirmation the following  month,  explaining that while Mr P had 
been diagnosed with type 2 diabetes, this had resolved, and Mr P was no longer  in receipt of 
any medication on that basis, as he had stopped it effective June 2017.  
Mr P says that AIG was no longer prepared to offer insurance on the original terms. He said 
though it would insure him for £310.42  per month,  it would only do so by reducing the offer 
for a term lasting until age 85, and with a sum assured  of £200,000.  
Thereafter an ongoing  series of correspondence  took place between the third-party adviser 
and AIG, on Mr Ps behalf. In summary, Mr P disputes that he has ever been  diagnosed with 
type 2 diabetes. In his view, AIG has failed to properly acknowledge that he was in fact 
diagnosed with prediabetes (that being  the period preceding a possible type 2 diabetes  
diagnosis where  blood sugar is high, but no other  symptoms of diabetes are seen).  
In July 2018, Mr P told AIG he was unhappy with the way the application had been handled. 
He said he had disclosed a past history of raised blood sugar when completing his 
application but was told by his adviser that this was not an issue as it was treatable  and not 
life-threatening.  
Mr P said AIG had now confirmed it would  rate his premium by +50 because  of a previous 
raised blood sugar level. Mr P said he does not have, nor have I ever had high blood sugar, 
insulin resistance or a lack of insulin.  I am being  penalised for a medical condition that I do 
not have. He said he did have  raised blood sugar  (that being  different from high blood 
sugar) but his blood sugar  readings have  remained  well within  normal levels since stopping 
his medication.  
Ref: DRN44653962Mr P explained about his lifestyle, where  he does not drink or smoke and where he walks 
some 200 kilometres each month.  He also explained he followed a type of vegetarian diet 
specifically aimed  at controlling blood  glucose levels and had done for many years.  
 
Mr P asked AIG to reconsider  the loading to his premium. As an alternative, he said he 
would be happy  to have the terms remain the same but allow AIG to exclude any right to 
claim for diabetes, if he ever went on to develop it.  
AIG would not alter its view. It said that even with raised blood sugar levels,  Mr P was at a 
risk of going  on to develop diabetes and it was entitled to apply a rating to that if it was to 
offer him terms.  
Further correspondence continued up to January 2019 between the advice firm and AIG. 
The adviser reiterated to AIG that Mr P moved back to the UK two years  ago and was 
immediately taken off his medication for blood pressure, cholesterol and prediabetes. The 
GP stopped his medication as he no longer suffered from any of [those] conditions. Mr P 
reversed his conditions  by exercise and a vegetarian based diet.
AIG revisited  its offering in December  2018,  as by this time it had complete information of his 
medical history in relation to all disclosures made and these were  slightly  varied from the 
quotes of May 2018. His adviser had also supplied up to date blood  sugar  and cholesterol 
readings for Mr P as well. 
A new application for a differing policy number ending #280 was processed on 28 December 
2018 and 3 January 2019. This was for the same  twenty-year  term and £200,000  of life 
cover. The quotes  were  £268.59 per month without disclosures and £372.94 with the loading 
applied.  
Based on his medical history and full disclosures, AIG had rated Mr Ps loading by the 
underwriter for historical raised cholesterol  in conjunction with his medical  records on 
diabetes. A loading  of +50 in total still applied.  
Mr P rejected the quote  and raised  a complaint. AIG issued a final response to the complaint 
on 17 January 2019. 
It said it remained of the view that Mr P had suffered  from diabetes, though it recognised  he 
had reversed his diagnosis  meaning he no longer  needed medicine and that his raised 
blood sugar levels were  now reduced. 
While AIG was mindful that Mr P might only suffer from raised blood sugar if he changed  his 
diet or lifestyle, it said its underwriters remained of the view a rating applied, because  it has 
to assess possible risk. It said susceptibility  to diabetes remains  a concern for it, and it would 
charge more to provide cover  if Mr P had wanted it.  
Mr P referred his complaint to this service in early 2019. He sent a further detailed  letter  in 
July 2019, setting out his reasons for objecting to AIGs underwriting  decision.  I am not going  
to repeat that letter in full here. However, in summary it said:
as previously explained, he never had diabetes but instead  had prediabetes 
diagnosed in 2010;
the medication was merely precautionary;
Ref: DRN44653963his medical records preceding the application show his blood sugar is within  normal 
levels;
he disagrees that prediabetes means a person will go on to develop type 2 diabetes  - 
it is only the case if prediabetes  is left untreated;
he is not genetically  predisposed  to diabetes and therefore  it is only his lifestyle and 
metabolism that are contributing factors;
he is far less likely than others  to go on to develop diabetes as he is educated about 
the causes and has a lifestyle that ensures he will not develop it;
he has regular medical  check-ups to ensure his good health is maintained;
he was only prescribed medication  because that is the automatic response to 
prediabetes, but it was not necessary;
he disagrees with AIG  information from Diabetes UK says that the condition  can go 
into full and permanent remission;
it is tantamount  to suicide for Mr P to abandon his lifestyle choices given the effort he 
has made to ensure  his future health;
AIG ought to be insuring Mr P against what may kill him, and diabetes has a low 
mortality rate;
diabetes falls within the 23% of deaths  (according  to the Office of National Statistics)  
that are preventable;
if one in three people have  diabetes  but so few die from it, this must show  that good  
diet and lifestyle choices can avoid  it;
he has been heavily  penalised for a medical  condition that he has never suffered 
from;
he ought to be given the option  to present to an independent medical  specialist to 
disprove AIGs unreasonable rating.  
An investigator reviewed  the complaint. He did not believe it should succeed.  He said that 
raised cholesterol and prediabetes is the reason AIG is rating  the premium.  And he believed 
it was entitled  to do so as AIG takes the view Mr Ps circumstances entail greater risk than 
an applicant without a history of those conditions.  Further, he felt that despite  assurances,  
Mr P could not guarantee his lifestyle choices.  Its underwriting team  took a decision based  
on what it believes to be a greater  risk, and it was entitled to do so.  
The investigator did not think Mr P had been  treated unfairly  compared  to any other 
applicant. He therefore believed the complaint  could  not succeed.  
Mr P disagreed. He said: 
he accepts that AIG uses the same criteria for a person that discloses prediabetes. 
What he disagrees with is the application of the criteria upon  which  it bases its 
underwriting decisions;
everyone who applies for life cover  that could possibly have diabetes  (but is ignorant 
of it) should be rated in the same  way;
he feels that others could have  poor diet or exercise and not have sought medical 
advice and not be penalised;
the ability to prevent  diabetes must  surely  fall in the favour of those who actively  seek 
to do so;
he accepts that AIG says it could not vary the rating until five years had passed from 
the raised blood sugar levels but he fails to understand why it cannot  apply  an 
exclusion;
in reality he has not had raised blood  sugar since  2010;
Ref: DRN44653964none of the points  he argued in his complaint  to this service have been addressed 
individually  Mr P does not believe  there is a point to making  a complaint if the 
Financial Ombudsman Service can be selective about what  it chooses  to answer;
he maintains that AIGs belief about  recurrence of diabetes  is simply  untrue.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the time Mr P has taken  to express the various aspects of his complaint. I 
realise he would like every ground of his correspondence to be addressed,  but I am not 
going to do so here. I would like to assure  Mr P that I have reviewed and assessed  
everything both parties have had to say regarding  the complaint.  But my findings are a 
summary of what I consider the fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint based on all of 
the evidence before me, including the various  submissions.  
This service provides an informal route  to resolving a dispute between  a complainant and a 
financial business. We are not the regulator;  that role falls to the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Similarly, other industry bodies  provide guidance  that most insurers will take into account, 
such as the Association  of British Insurers.  
Many of the points Mr P has made  are about AIGs approach to insuring an applicant  who 
has had prediabetes and whether the presence  of prediabetes has an inherent risk to a later 
onset of type 2 diabetes. While I know Mr P will be disappointed, I cannot make  findings 
about that. It is not within my remit to do so. That is because decisions about  whether to 
offer insurance (based  on risk and cost)  are for an individual insurer.  That requires 
commercial discretion that I cannot  overrule. 
What I am able to do is determine whether AIG has been unfair  or unreasonable in the 
process of making  its revised offer to Mr P. If I believed  it had not done so then I could make 
an award or direction about that. However, I agree  with our investigator where he concluded 
that AIG hasnt done anything wrong.  
Mr P is correct  that his first application and initial quote offered cover to age 90, though there  
is no evidence of any quote for £250,000  of cover  all four quotes I have seen were  for 
£200,000. He is also correct that the first amended  quote reduced the term. 
However by the time of the updated quotes of December 2018  and January 2019  which 
were based  on receipt of full medical  evidence-  the term had reverted to 20 years.  
Though I realise  the parties  still disagree on whether Mr Ps prediabetes was diagnosed as 
type 2 diabetes, it remains  the case that AIG will not offer cover  to Mr P unless it rates  that 
offer by +50 for the combination of his history of prediabetes  and raised  cholesterol.   
As our investigator explained, AIGs underwriters will make  an assessment as to the level of 
risk it perceives in offering  life assurance to an applicant. It is then for that applicant to 
decide if the offering at the determined price is acceptable or not. Mr P does not have to take 
out the insurance  and in this case he declined to do so. That means he is free to apply to 
other insurers. What he cannot  do is alter the offer, unless for some reason it becomes 
apparent that AIG is not basing its offer on correct information in which  case underwriting 
could be reviewed.  
Ref: DRN44653965AIG is taking a decision on Mr Ps correct  medical history  unfortunately that is a subjective 
measure and Mr P has a differing view. I cannot alter that because  I do not find AIG to have 
acted unfairly in making a commercial decision of its choosing based on the correct medical 
information.
I know Mr P also feels its unfair that AIG will not draft a type of policy exclusion to account  
for diabetes.  But that is not an option  AIG will provide. Its offering is to increase the cost of 
cover to account for additional risk. The premium  loading is for the combined history  of 
prediabetes and high cholesterol. And these could have links to many other conditions, 
some of which may or may not be related to causes of death. 
In cases of critical illness or wider protection  policies it is easier  to add exclusions for a 
person going on to develop a certain  type of illness. But in a life assurance policy,  there  can 
be a number of causes that lead to a person passing away and it is not simply the case  that 
an exclusion  for one type of condition that could cause death can be included. Its for that 
reason insurers will either  likely  account  for an insurance risk with a loaded premium,  or 
decline cover. 
I do not believe AIG has acted unfairly  in these particular circumstances and so I will not be 
ordering it to amend any previous (and now expired)  life assurance quote, nor can I propose 
that it drafts a policy exclusion for diabetes. As Ive said earlier, Mr P is free to approach 
other insurance companies if he still requires life assurance  though  it is worth  noting  that 
each may use its own criteria  for assessing  risk. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint, nor do I make any award.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4465396