K821x#15complaint
Miss M believes  Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc acted irresponsibly by agreeing loans shed applied 
for.
background
In February 2017  Miss M took out a £3,000 loan with Hitachi, to be repaid over 24 months 
with repayments  of £147.23 a month. The loan was repaid in January 2018. In July 2017, 
Miss M took out a second loan with Hitachi. This loan was for £4,000, to be repaid over 36 
months, with repayments of £190.31  a month.  This loan was repaid in April 2018.
Miss M took a third, and final,  loan with Hitachi in January 2018. This loan was for £3,000,  to 
be paid over 42 months, with repayments  of £98.80 a month. Miss M fell into financial 
difficulties in October 2018 and agreed  a £5 a month  payment plan with Hitachi.  Hitachi also 
agreed to suspend all interest and charges.
Miss M complained that Hitachi didnt act responsibly when approving the loans. She said 
Hitachi shouldnt have  approved them because she was in a continuous spiral of debt,  and 
reliant on short-term payday loans. Shes also explained that, at the time,  she had a 
gambling problem.  Hitachi didnt agree theyd done anything wrong, so Miss M brought her 
complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator initially said that, for each loan, Hitachi  verified  Miss Ms income through an 
affordability report, which was part of her credit file. And her credit file showed that Miss M 
wasnt overcommitted at the time she took out each loan. He also reviewed  Miss Ms credit 
file at the time of each application.  And he thought Hitachi had acted reasonably  when 
approving the loans.  So he didnt  think they needed to take any action.
Miss M didnt agree with the investigator. She thought  Hitachi didnt fully consider her 
financial situation at the time. The investigator  obtained further information about Miss Ms 
financial position at the time of the applications,  and this changed his view. He reissued his 
view, saying that he thought Hitachi had acted reasonably when approving the first loan. But 
he didnt think they acted reasonably when approving the second  and third loans.
So the investigator recommended that Hitachi should refund the interest and charges on the 
second and third loans. He also said that Hitachi should remove these loans from Miss Ms 
credit file.
Miss M agreed  with the investigator, but Hitachi didnt.  While they agreed  they shouldnt  
have approved the third loan, they thought  theyd  acted  reasonably  when approving the 
second loan. So theyve asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or  unaffordable  lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy 
themselves that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability  was sustainable. 
Ref: DRN42158522Where reasonable  and proportionate checks were  carried out, I need  to consider if the 
lending decision was fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks  werent carried out, I 
need to consider if the loan wouldve been  approved  if the checks had taken place. 
I also need to consider  whether the lender acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied  for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application.  
And, because theres no dispute that the first loan shouldve been agreed,  and the third loan 
shouldnt have been agreed; my decision will focus  on the second loan.
Did Hitachi  complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Miss M would 
be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Hitachi said Miss M had a good, verified  level of income and, although she was increasing 
the amount of credit over the three  applications she made, she wasnt overindebted nor was 
she likely  to be in the near future. Hitachi also explained that they verified Miss Ms income  
and creditworthiness  from the information  they received from the credit reference agencies.
Ive seen the documents Hitachi checked at the time they approved Miss Ms loans. On her 
application for the first loan, in February  2017,  Miss M said she was a home owner with no 
mortgage. But on her application for the second  loan,  in July 2017,  she said she was a home 
owner with a mortgage. On both applications she said she had a gross income of £24,000.
Hitachi have explained  that they dont have a physical credit report  from the time Miss M 
made her application, but they extract the data into an overview report. Which also verifies 
the declared income. Theyve provided  the details  of what  the overview report  contained for 
each of the three loans.
For the first loan, the information Hitachi had access to didnt show  that Miss M had a 
mortgage. But for the second loan it showed shed had a mortgage  for 15 years. It also 
showed that Miss M had taken out nine new credit agreements in the three months before 
the second loan was applied for, and that the total amount she owed  had increased  by 
£13,233 in the previous 12-months. 
The second  loan was for £4,000; £1,000 more that the first loan. And the second  loan wasnt  
being used to repay the first loan.  So Miss M was more  than doubling her indebtedness to 
Hitachi in just five months.
When looking to approve the second loan, Hitachi had an obligation to consider all of the 
factors. So, while  they said the loan was affordable to Miss M at the time, the issue  with the 
previous undeclared mortgage,  and the substantial increase  in lending between  taking out 
loan one and applying for loan two, shouldve indicated to Hitachi  that this affordability  may 
not be sustainable. So I wouldve expected  Hitachi to carry out more checks before deciding 
whether to approve the second  loan.
Ref: DRN42158523Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that Miss M could sustainably  
repay the borrowing?
The main  additional  check Id expect Hitachi to have  done is to check Miss Ms income and 
expenditure to ensure their finance was affordable at the point of application, and to see that 
affordability was sustainable  throughout the lifetime of the lending. 
Miss M has provided bank  statements for two accounts  account  ending 039 for the period 
22 October 2015 to 16 January 2019,  and account ending 828 for the period 16 November 
2016 to 13 February  2019. The second loan was paid out to Miss M on 18 July 2017. In the 
absence of anything  else, I think the bank statements for the three  months before the 
second loan was approved give a good  indication  of what  Hitachi  would likely have 
discovered if theyd asked about  Miss Ms expenditure.
The statements  for both accounts from 18 April to 18 July 2017 show that Miss M had a 
regular monthly income of £1,622  from her employment. And she received £83 every four 
weeks in Child Benefit. So this would give Miss M a monthly income  of £1,712.
Miss Ms regular monthly outgoings for her loans were £804 (which included  the first loan 
from Hitachi, and a loan where the first payment was in June 2017). And she paid a total of 
£336 to her credit card during this period  an average of £112 a month. The bank 
statements also show Miss M paid a total of £174  a month to energy companies. Miss M has 
explained that she had two mortgages  on her home, held jointly with her partner, but her 
partner paid these,  as well as other  household  bills. Which is why they dont appear on her 
bank statements.
However, these bank statements also show that Miss M was reliant on short-term payday 
lending. She received  two loans from a payday lender into her accounts  one on May and 
one in July 2017. And, in the three  months covered by these  bank statements, she paid a 
total of £3,625 to these lenders  an average of £1,208 a month.
So, Miss Ms outgoings were more  than her income.  And thats before taking the payment for 
the second loan to Hitachi into consideration.
Whats more, in the same  period, Miss M paid £837 in 30 separate transactions  to online 
betting companies. And the May payment to an energy company was returned unpaid, with 
her payments to this company  increasing  from July onwards as a result.
Given this, Im satisfied that, had Hitachi carried out reasonable and proportionate checks for 
the second loan, they shouldnt have approved it.
Did Hitachi  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other  way?
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Hitachi acted unfairly or unreasonably in
some other way.
Ref: DRN42158524putting things right
I remain satisfied that Hitachi  acted unreasonably  when  approving  Miss Ms second loan. 
And Hitachi have accepted  they shouldnt have approved  the third loan. But, because Miss 
M had the benefit  of the money for these loans, Hitachi should:
1.Unwind all of the interest and charges  applied to the second  and third loans; and
2.Total all of the payments Miss M paid towards these loans and deduct this amount 
from the amount  she borrowed.
If this means  that Miss M has paid Hitachi more  than she borrowed, Hitachi  should refund 
this amount to her, along  with 8% simple  interest  a year from the date of the payments to the 
date of the refund*. But if this means that Miss M still owes Hitachi any money,  then they 
should work with her to agree a suitable  repayment  plan.
Additionally, Hitachi  should arrange  for all records for the second  and third loans, along with 
any associated adverse credit entries, to be removed from Miss Ms credit  file. For clarity, 
any entries relating  to the first loan should  remain.
*HMRC requires  Hitachi to take off tax from this interest. Hitachi must give Miss M a 
certificate showing how much tax has been  taken off, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Miss Ms complaint. And Hitachi  Capital (UK) Plc 
must follow my directions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2021 .
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4215852