K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 1996. Mr H says Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL) mis-sold him the PPI.
Mr H took out the store  card and PPI in a shop  but FICL has taken responsibility  for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr H says that there was no mention of PPI when he took out his store card  he says it was 
applied without his knowledge or consent. He also says that the sales assistant marked  
where to sign and tick on the application  and mostly completed it for him. But I think  that 
FICL made it clear  that the PPI was optional, and that Mr H chose to take it out. 
FICL has provided a copy of Mr Hs store card application  and I can see that the policy is 
presented as optional, and has been selected.  Mr H has then gone  on to sign the application 
agreeing to the information on it. I can see that some  of the areas  which needed Mr Hs 
attention have been marked  with a cross, including the PPI  and its possible that the sales 
assistant completed some  of the form for him. But it doesnt follow  that FICL didnt make it 
clear that the PPI was optional. Mr H was entering in to a financial agreement   so it was up 
to him to make sure he read and understood what he was selecting and signing for.  
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr H so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr H got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said, but these points dont change my decision, and 
for the reasons set out above,  I dont  think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Ref: DRN42821292Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4282129