K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Santander  UK Plc didnt treat him fairly  when  a bond he held with them  
matured. He wanted to arrange a transfer  to another account of his, but it insisted he attend 
a branch to make  arrangements  when he was ill. 
Mr L is being represented by his son, who Ill call Mr C. 
background
Mr L had a bond with Santander  which was due to mature on 1 May 2019.  He was sent a 
maturity pack on in April 2019 that gave him options  for the maturity  proceeds.  This included  
transferring the funds  to an external account. The pack explained Mr L could complete this 
over the phone or in branch. 
Mr L called  his local branch in order to give his instructions to transfer the proceeds to an 
external account.  However, because of security  measures it was unable  to take Mr Ls 
instruction over the phone  and insisted he visit a branch. This was despite Mr L explaining 
he was housebound and didnt know when he would  be well enough to visit. And when Mr L 
said he wanted to complain about that the branch  said it couldnt log a complaint (but it could 
note his dissatisfaction). 
On 25 April 2019, Mr L visited the branch with his son, to make  arrangements  for the 
maturity proceeds.  The bond matured on 1 May 2019 and paid out accordingly.   
During April 2019,  Mr C raised a complaint with us about this matter.  We notified Santander 
of the complaint and asked it to investigate. It sent its final response on 18 June 2019  
upholding Mr Ls complaint and awarding £75 compensation for the way Mr Ls call was 
handled. Its records show the cheque was cashed  on 24 June 2019.  
We were contacted by Mr C in November  2019  asking for an update as he hadnt heard from 
us or Santander. We progressed the complaint and asked for Santanders  file. Our 
investigator considered  the information provided and was satisfied Santander had already 
fairly resolved the complaint. 
Mr C disputes his father ever receiving  the cheque for this complaint. He said his father had 
made numerous complaints about  Santander in 2019 and had received compensation but 
not for this complaint.  
Our investigator checked with Santander who confirmed it had no other  recorded  complaints 
for Mr L in 2019. And this was the only £75 cheque it had sent to him. It provided records  to 
show the payment  being raised  and the cheque being cashed. The investigator  asked for 
evidence of the other complaints made. Mr C said he didnt have  any evidence and it was 
Santanders failure in logging  the other complaints.  He also asked for the matter to referred 
to an ombudsman for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN42727132Santander couldnt facilitate Mr Ls instruction to send the maturity proceeds  to an external  
account. This was as a result of security measures it had in place. What measures a bank 
puts in place to protect its customers from fraud  is a matter for it, and not something I would 
generally interfere  with. I dont find it was wrong for Santander to ask Mr L to do something 
more. 
That said,  I find the response from the branch  very unhelpful. Although Mr L explained why 
he couldnt get to branch, the call handler offered no alternative methods for Mr L to give his 
instructions. This was despite the branch being able to offer home  visits. And to make 
matters worse, it refused  to properly log Mr Ls complaint. Im glad to see that Santander has 
arranged for feedback to be given to the individual concerned. Im also pleased  to see it has 
awarded Mr L compensation of £75 for how the call was handled. Had it not already  done 
so, this is similar to an award I would make. 
Mr C has said that although compensation has been provided for other complaints, 
compensation hasnt  been received for this one. But when asked to provide evidence  of the 
other complaints he hasnt been  able to. If, as Mr C argues, Santander has considered other  
complaints and paid compensation it would have a record  of this  not least because 
complaints have to be reported to the regulator.  
Had complaints been  made then I would expect  Mr L to be able to provide the 
acknowledgement for the complaints and/or any final responses that were issued, 
particularly as a final response is required to be sent in writing.  Therefore, if as Mr C argues, 
Mr L did have other  complaints with Santander,  I would expect both parties to have 
evidence. But neither party has provided  any persuasive evidence that Mr L had made other 
complaints, or that the £75 cheque payment was in relation to another  matter. 
Santander sent its final response  letter  to the correct address. It has also provided  evidence 
to show the cheque payment has been cashed. The vast majority of correctly addressed 
mail is correctly  delivered. In the circumstances, I find the letter  was most likely correctly 
delivered and the cheque  cashed. I dont require Santander to do anymore. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4272713