K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained on behalf of their company, which  I'll refer to as C, about  
Arthur J. Gallagher (UK) Ltds (AJG) handling  of the sale of a fleet motor insurance policy.
background
C is a self-drive vehicle  hire company. AJG is a broker, so it sells insurance policies and may 
help with their administration but the cover is provided by an insurer  which is a separate  
business. 
AJG sold C a fleet policy underwritten by a foreign insurer. The day the policy  began  Mr and 
Mrs L learned of concerns  with the insurers financial status. AJG contacted the insurers  
agents who said that there were no concerns with current  policies.  But around two months  
later the insurer went into administration and stopped trading. C was forced to buy another 
policy without receiving  a refund  of the premium  it had paid to the insurer.  Mr and Mrs L 
applied on Cs behalf to the Financial  Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS)  for a refund 
of its unused premium. But as far as Im aware to date they haven't  received any refund.
Mr and Mrs L brought Cs complaint about  AJGs sale of the policy and handling  of matters 
to us. I issued a provisional decision  on 19 February 2020. For ease I've repeated  my 
provisional findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely I won't uphold  
it. 
The timing  of this case  is particularly unfortunate. I've seen  that Mr and Mrs L agreed to buy 
Cs policy via AJG on 23 February 2018. At that time I haven't  seen  any evidence that AJG 
should have been aware that the insurer was in any financial difficulty. Indeed when the 
insurer quoted  for the policy its representatives  said that the insurer  was solvent and had no 
financial concerns.  So at the time AJG sold the policy I don't think  it could have known that 
there were any concerns  about the insurers financial position.
But around a week later, on 1 March 2018,  which  was the day the policy  began  Mr and 
Mrs L learned that there had been some  concerns in the insurance  press that the insurer  
was in financial difficulties.
AJG contacted the insurer that day. AJG forwarded the insurers reply  to Mr and Mrs L. 
Essentially that said that while the insurer had experienced some difficulties owing to the 
position of one of its reinsurers (which is a separate business that the insurer  had passed 
some of its claims  liabilities on to) it had already secured additional finance. In other words  
the insurer gave  the impression they could manage  their current policies and claims 
liabilities. 
At that point AJG said to Mr and Mrs L that C could cancel its policy  and AJG could find 
cover with a different insurer  if that was in Cs interest. Had the information about  the 
insurers financial position come  about  only days earlier, Mr and Mrs L could  have cancelled  
Cs policy before it began and would not have had to pay any of the premiums. But as the 
policy had started, in line with its terms, the insurer would only have refunded 80% of the 
premium. In other words  C would have to pay 20% of the premium  if it cancelled the policy. 
As I've said above that timing is extremely unfortunate for C and Mr and Mrs L. But I haven't  
Ref: DRN40206652seen any evidence that AJG was aware or should  have been able to predict  the insurers 
situation at the time AJG recommended  the policy. 
Also, AJGs terms of business  make  it clear that, as a broker, it's not responsible for and 
cant guarantee the financial  position  of the insurers that it places policies with. And I think 
that's common across  the insurance industry.  So I don't think  its fair to hold AJG to blame  
because the insurer  experienced  financial issues shortly  after AJG sold C the policy. 
Mr and Mrs L opted not to cancel the policy. Its premium was significant, so losing 20% of it 
for only a few days cover might not have  appeared a sensible business decision. But it 
appears that both AJG and Mr and Mrs L were  reassured by the insurers responses to 
AJGs queries. And those  clearly indicated that the insurer  would  continue  to honour existing 
policies. I don't think AJG did anything wrong  in passing on the information it received  from 
the insurer to Mr and Mrs L. I understand that Mr and Mrs L might  think  that the information 
was unnecessarily reassuring because only two months later the insurer did go bust.  But 
AJG couldn't  have known that at the time.  And it gave Mr and Mrs L the option  to cancel Cs 
policy if they wished.  But they chose not to do that and that was their decision. I don't think  
its fair to hold AJG responsible for that.
As I've already  indicated,  if Mr and Mrs L had cancelled Cs policy then it would have had to 
pay at least 20% of the premium. Our investigator said that AJG should  have challenged 
this. But its the insurer not AJG that set the amount of refunds payable  on cancellation. So I 
don't think  its fair to hold AJG responsible  for a decision of the insurer. Such short  term 
rates on policy  cancellation  are common in commercial motor insurance  policies,  and I don't 
think that its reasonable to expect AJG to challenge this with the insurer,  especially as 
Mr and Mrs L chose not to cancel Cs policy.
Also, at the time, the information available said that the insurer  was in solvent  liquidation. 
That doesn't mean that the firm was bankrupt. Instead it means that, while the insurer wasn't 
taking on any new business,  it considered  that it had enough funds to meet  its current  
liabilities and would be able to pay claims. So I don't think that situation meant that AJG 
should undoubtedly have been  advising  Mr and Mrs L to cancel Cs policy.  Thats because 
that would  have meant that C would have  to pay a high proportion of the premium  for only 
part of the cover when the information AJG had received was that the policy  should  last its 
full term.
It follows that I don't think AJG did anything wrong  in dealing with Cs policy.  So I don't think  
its fair to make  it liable for any loss of premium C might suffer  because  the insurer is no 
longer trading.
For completeness Mr and Mrs L have commented  that they think  AJGs actions while we 
were considering the complaint were  duplicitous. I think they made that comment  after our 
investigator told them that we were  checking we had jurisdiction to look at this case.  Mr and 
Mrs L said that AJG had initially referred  them to us, so they felt AJG was being unfair in 
challenging our authority after our investigator recommended we uphold the complaint. But 
AJG didn't ever challenge  our authority  to look at this complaint. Instead  this was action we 
took internally to ensure we weren't going  beyond our jurisdiction. And our process is clear 
that either party to a complaint can ask for a case to be reviewed  by an ombudsman  after 
one of our investigators  have issued their view of it. So I don't think  AJG was acting with any 
duplicitousness in asking  for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
developments
Ref: DRN40206653AJG didn't provide  any further comment.  Mr and Mrs L replied on Cs behalf. They said that 
they signed  with AJG on 28 February 2018 not 23 February 2018, which was the date of 
AJGs quote. They said that the primary concern for Cs business was that the insurer was a 
stable one. 
Mr and Mrs L added that articles in the insurance  press said that the insurers regulator in its 
home country had told it to shore up its claims account in July 2017. And that there  were  
other articles about a different  foreign  government  warning the reinsurer  who later went  
bust - not to transfer money to the insurer. Mr and Mrs L said that AJG should have been 
aware of this. They said that as the news came  the day after they took out Cs policy more 
research by AJG that day should have led to the policy not being put into place. They also 
questioned how the policy collapsed  completely  when AJG confirmed it still held the 
premiums C had paid and found  it reasonable to pay that money to the insurer  knowing full 
well that C would have  to reinsure elsewhere. They commented that presumably AJG held 
on to its commission. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I'm not going to uphold 
it.
Mr and Mrs L said that they only signed for the policy  on 28 February 2018. But I don't 
think the exact date is relevant. That date is still before  the policy began and before the 
issues with the insurer Mr and Mrs L have referred  to were in the press. So at the time AJG 
sold C the policy I don't think  it should  have known about potential problems with the insurer.
I've seen the articles in the insurance press  that Mr and Mrs L have referred to. I note that all 
of these were published  in the days after Mr and Mrs L agreed to buy Cs policy. So the 
policy was already in place  at the time these were published. And I haven't seen evidence 
that AJG should  have been  aware of the information  in them  previously. 
One of the articles refers to an instruction from the insurers home  regulator  to increase its 
claims provisions  - the funds it puts aside to pay successful claims - in July 2017. But the 
article said that the insurer did so. That would  indicate that the insurer could find funds to 
cover those claims provisions. I don't  think that indicates that the insurer was on the brink  of 
imminent collapse or provides evidence that AJG should have been  aware  of this.
Similarly the article referring to another foreign government, which  was actually  that 
countrys de facto financial regulator,  was about the actions  of the reinsurer.  From the article 
it seems that the reinsurer paid funds over to the insurer despite  the regulator  not giving its 
permission for the reinsurer to do so. But it appears  that any breach of regulatory conduct  
was by the reinsurer not the insurer. And the action concerned involved giving the insurer 
more funds, which if anything, should  have made  it more solvent not less. But, in any case, 
as Ive said above I haven't seen evidence that AJG should have been  aware  of this 
information at the time it recommended the policy to C. 
Mr and Mrs L added that further research by AJG on the morning they signed for the policy  
could have prevented them putting the policy in place. Im not sure what  additional research 
Mr and Mrs L expected  AJG to do. But Ive seen  that only eight days earlier  the insurer  
provided AJG with its quote for Cs business.  In its quotation submission  the insurer  provided 
Ref: DRN40206654details of its funding  which  indicated that it had more than enough funds to remain  solvent. 
And without  some other  form of prompting I don't  think AJG had any cause to doubt that the 
insurer was anything other than solvent on the day it put the policy in place. So I don't think  
its reasonable to have  expected it to do further  research into the insurers  solvency at that 
time. 
I do understand that it was important for C to have a stable insurance programme. But I 
also understand that it wanted a cost effective  one. And the policy that AJG recommended  
was around 13% cheaper than the next cheapest quotation. And as Ive said above  I haven't  
seen any evidence that AJG should have been aware that the insurer  was likely to run into 
money troubles  or had any financial concerns. So I don't think  it acted  unreasonably  in 
recommending the policy.
Mr and Mrs L also said that at the time the insurer went into administration AJG still held 
funds that C had paid to it for the policy. But when receiving a premium on behalf of an 
insurer AJG is acting as the insurers agent.  That means that when it receives such funds  it 
has essentially stepped  into the shoes of the insurer and it treats  that money as if its already 
been paid to the insurer. And I can see the terms of business AJG sent to Mr and Mr L 
explain that. I can understand that, as the insurer has ceased trading, Mr and Mrs L might 
think AJG should have  returned the money  to C. But the money technically belonged to the 
insurer and its administrators would no doubt assign those funds to the insurers creditors.  
So AJG didn't  have  the authority to refund any sums it held to C. It could, if it had wished to, 
have refunded any commission but I don't  think it was under any obligation to do so.
It follows that while, given  the extremely unfortunate timing in this case, I have great  
sympathy for the predicament that Mr and Mrs L and C find themselves in, but I don't think  
that AJG did anything wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L on 
behalf of C, to accept  or reject my decision before  12 April 2020.
Joe Scott 
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4020665