K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited (Shop  Direct), trading as 
Very, shouldve reported a default  to her account  before they sold the debt.
background
Miss B took out a Very home shopping  account in November 2004. In November 2011, 
when Miss B was struggling financially, she arranged to enter into a debt management plan 
(DMP) and her home shopping  account  was included in it along with debts to several  other 
organisations. In December 2012  Shop Direct  sold the debt to a company Ill call A who,  in 
March 2018, reported to the credit reference  agencies that the account  had been defaulted.
Miss B said that the account should  have been  defaulted much  earlier  by Shop Direct, at a 
point when three to six monthly payments hadnt been made. She said that filing the default 
later has meant it will stay on her records until 2024 and as a result  shes been  penalised  for 
paying the debt. She says if shed chosen not to pay it the default  would have  been  applied 
and by now it would have been cleared from her credit  file.
Shop Direct said that it is not their policy to apply a default when an account  is in a DMP. So 
they thought they hadnt made a mistake.
But Miss B disagreed  and she therefore referred  her complaint to this service and our 
investigator provided an opinion. She agreed  with Miss B and felt the default shouldve been  
applied when the business  relationship between Miss B and Shop Direct  broke down. She 
thought it was reasonable to suggest  this was when  the payment plan was put in place in 
November 2011  as it was clear  Miss B wasnt  making  her contractual  payments at that point. 
But she said even if this was the wrong  date it was clear that a default  should have been 
listed in September  2012 when Miss B reduced  the payments she was making under the 
DMP shed arranged. She said it seemed to her unfair that a default should  still be impacting 
Miss B so long after shed  arranged the DMP.
But Shop Direct disagreed. They said that they didnt need to report a default  when a 
consumer entered  into a DMP and the fact Miss B had missed a payment towards the DMP 
arrangement didnt mean they had to do so either.  They  said the default that had now been 
reported by A was because Miss B hadnt  kept up payments on the debt since  theyd 
bought it and this wasnt something  Shop Direct  could be held accountable for. So they 
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Shop Direct  but I agree with the investigators view.  Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN40494462board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
what does the relevant  guidance say?
The relevant  guidance is from the Information  Commissioners Office  (ICO) who publish their 
principles for reporting defaults to credit reference  agencies.
Id expect Shop Direct to follow these principles.
The ICO guidance says that if a lender agrees to a reduced payment arrangement it will be 
shown on the consumers credit file as such and that whilst arrears  may accrue  and 
increase a default will not be recorded.
Shop Direct have  explained that its not their practice to report  accounts  as defaulted when 
the consumer  has entered  into a DMP to which theyve agreed to receive reduced payments. 
Id agree that that is in line with the ICO guidance.  
But the guidance goes on to say in Principle 3 that:
if your lender agrees  to give you a temporary arrangement, but you fail to make  the agreed  
payment against  the new terms, they may still file a default  (see principle 4) as soon as a 
payment is missed, as long as you were at least  three  months in arrears on the original 
agreement.
Principle 4 says if you fall into arrears  on your account, or you do not keep to the revised 
terms of an arrangement, a default may be recorded 
what does this mean for Miss B?
I dont think Shop Direct needed to report a default when the DMP was agreed as I think the 
ICO guidance makes that clear.
Its not so clear whether they needed to report a default thereafter but I think  it would be fair 
and reasonable for them to have done so.
I say that because:
Miss Bs account was three months in arrears  when  the DMP was established. She 
made a late payment  towards that new arrangement and at that point the guidance, 
in principle 3 (above), says Shop Direct couldve reported a default. It doesnt say 
they had to and Shop  Direct have explained that theyd usually only apply a default 
when an account  was six months  in arrears. Im persuaded that at this point Shop 
Direct may have  reasonably decided not to default the account.
when a revised payment plan was made in May 2012 and when a payment to that 
plan was missed in August 2012,  I think Shop Direct should have registered  a 
default. The ICO guidance would support reporting the default as the account was 
already three months in arrears  and a payment had been missed towards an 
arrangement. As this was the second  time a payment had been missed  and the 
account was already  three months in arrears I think its clear  the business  
relationship had broken down and in those circumstances  it would  have been  fairer to 
report the account in default.
Ref: DRN40494463So I think, in these particular circumstances, the fairest resolution would be for Shop  Direct 
to report the default  the month  after the August 2012 payment was missed  against the re-
arranged DMP.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Shop  Direct Finance 
Company Limited  to:
report a default  on Miss Bs account from September 2012
inform company A and tell them to remove any later default theyve added
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 October  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4049446