K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc supplied  him with a car that wasnt of 
satisfactory quality under  a conditional sale agreement. 
background
In June 2018, Mr A acquired a used car using a conditional sale agreement from Santander. 
The car was around  nine years old and had travelled around 78,700 miles. The cash price of 
the car was £6,995 and the total repayable under the agreement was around  £9,200.  It was 
to be repaid over 60 months with each monthly  repayment being around £153. 
In October  2018, Mr A says the car broke down. He contacted the dealership  he acquired 
the car from who told him to speak to the warranty company. The warranty  company asked 
Mr A to take the car to a specific garage  to have the repairs carried out. That garage 
inspected the car and said the fault was to do with the head gasket and this wasnt 
something they could  repair.  Mr A says the warranty company told him he could then take it 
to a garage of his choice to carry out the repairs. 
The garage Mr A took the car to (which Ill call V) said it would cost £2,308.61  to fix the 
head gasket as well as repair associated parts that had failed as a result of the head gasket 
problem. These included an EGR valve, EGR  cooler and cylinder head. The garage also 
replaced some broken  coils which were  unrelated  to the head  gasket problem. 
The warranty company  only agreed to pay £589.18  towards the repair costs. It said this 
covered replacement of the head gasket  only.  It said the coils,  EGR valve  and EGR  cooler  
were wear  and tear items and not covered by the warranty.  In addition, it didnt think the 
EGR valve or cooler  required replacement. 
Mr A complained to Santander to say it should  cover the remainder  of the repair  costs. 
Santander said it wasnt given the opportunity to inspect the car prior to the repairs being 
carried out. It said that Mr A had travelled  almost  5,000 miles in the three months  he was in 
possession of the car and given these reasons it was only willing to contribute £500 as a 
gesture of goodwill. Santander  said the supplying dealership was also willing to contribute an 
additional £500. Mr A wasnt  happy  with this as it meant he would still need to pay £719.43 
for the repairs. 
In February 2019,  Mr A says the car broke down again. He says this was due to coolant 
loss. He took the car back to V and says he had to pay £180 for further repairs. 
In May 2019, Mr A says he took the car back to V again due to continued  coolant  loss. He 
paid a further £600 to have the cylinder head inspected. V told Mr A that it suspected the 
engine was faulty and would require  replacement. It quoted him around  £3,000  to have a 
refurbished engine fitted. Mr A didnt opt to have  those repairs completed. 
In July 2019, Mr A says the car suffered a head gasket failure  and was recovered to a 
different garage. Mr A paid £1,392.17  for the head  gasket repairs  which  also included 
replacing the EGR cooler  and coolant pump. He complained once more to Santander saying 
it ought to cover the cost of all the repairs as the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality. 
Santander didnt  agree to cover any costs. It said that it had spoken  to V who said the 
coolant issues Mr A was now experiencing werent related to the head  gasket failure  in 
Ref: DRN46468712October 2018. Santander said that Mr A had told them the coolant  problem only started after 
V had carried out repairs. It said that because Mr A had asked V to carry out repairs  in 
October 2018 beyond  just the head  gasket, it wasnt responsible for any failed repairs  by V 
that werent authorised by the dealership.  It said it wasnt  possible to say what  had caused 
the current problems  with the car. Given the amount  of time since  the point  of sale and the 
amount of mileage Mr A had covered, it didnt think the current faults  made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality  when it was supplied. 
I sent Mr A and Santander my provisional decision  on 2 February 2021. I explained why 
I thought the complaint should  be upheld. The following is an extract  of my provisional  
findings:
The conditional sale agreement  Mr A entered into is a regulated consumer credit agreement, 
so this service can consider complaints  relating to it. Under the agreement,  Santander is 
also the supplier  of the car and is therefore  responsible for a complaint about its quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA) implies  a term into any contract  to supply goods that 
those goods will be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is taken to be what  a reasonable 
person would expect,  taking  into account  any description of the goods,  the price  and all other  
relevant circumstances. I think in this case those relevant circumstances include  but arent  
limited to  the age and mileage of the car and the cash price. 
The CRA says the quality  of the goods includes their general  state  and condition  and other  
things like their fitness for purpose,  appearance  and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability.
The car Mr A acquired was around  9 years old, had covered around 78,700  miles and cost 
£6,995. My starting  point therefore  is that a reasonable  person would expect the car to be 
more road worn and likely to require  more maintenance than a brand new car. I think  it 
would also be reasonable to expect  repairs and replacement parts to be fitted sooner than 
with a newer car. Having said this, it would still be reasonable to expect the car to have been 
free from faults at the point of supply.
Mr A first reported  the head gasket failure  around  three months after acquiring the car. At 
this time, he had travelled around  4,500  miles in the car. Mr A didnt  contact Santander but 
approached the supplying  dealership instead, who directed him to the warranty company. As 
the supplier and owner of the car, Mr A ought  to have contacted  Santander first to authorise  
any repairs. However, Santander appears to accept Mr A acted reasonably  in seeking 
assistance from the supplying dealership and following their instructions. 
I think its more  likely than not that had Mr A contacted Santander  first, that it would have 
instructed him to liaise  with the dealership in the first instance regarding any repairs.  For this 
reason, I dont think Santander is in any different position now,  than it would have been had 
Mr A approached them first. 
Ive thought about whether the head  gasket  failure made the car of unsatisfactory quality. 
I note Santanders  concern  that Mr A had covered 4,500 miles in three months  which it 
considers to be significant. I dont however think the mileage was such as to deem it 
impossible or even unlikely the fault with the head  gasket  couldnt have been developing at 
the point of supply.
Ref: DRN46468713It doesnt appear that the warranty company or the supplying dealership  has suggested the 
head gasket failure  was caused by Mr A or that it was as a result of expected wear and tear. 
I say this because  otherwise  neither  party would have accepted  some  responsibility for 
covering the costs of the repairs. Overall  Im satisfied this fault made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality  and was likely  to have been  developing at the point of supply.  
Santander doesnt appear to dispute this either, having itself offered to contribute  some  
money towards the repairs  as a gesture of goodwill. What is in dispute are the additional 
repairs V carried out in October 2018,  February 2019, May 2019  and that the second garage  
completed in July 2019. 
Santander says V told it the repairs from February 2019 onwards were for a separate  issue  
to the head gasket. However, V told our investigator they were all related to the same 
problem (apart from a couple of exceptions). Santander hasnt provided a copy  of the call it 
had with V but has given us its contact notes  which say, in summary, that the October  fault 
was due to overheating and the later problems were to do with coolant loss. 
Its not clear exactly what opinion V gave Santander  during  this call, but it seems from what it 
told our investigator and the nature  of the issues the car experienced that they are all likely 
to be linked. It seems that a lack of coolant would result in an overheating problem, and in 
October 2018, the coolant needed  topping up as well as having the coolant pump replaced. 
The EGR components  that were replaced  also play a part in the cooling system. 
Santander have  suggested that its possible it is the repairs carried  out by V that have 
caused the coolant loss issue. But Im not persuaded thats likely to be the case.  I say this 
because it appears  there has been an underlying fault with the car prior to Mr A acquiring it. 
Santander has provided copies of the service records  for the car. This shows  that during the 
service carried  out prior to Mr A taking possession  of the car, it had the EGR replaced.  This 
was done at 73,700  miles.  For the EGR valve  and cooler to then need replacing  only 10,000 
miles later suggest there may have been  an underlying problem with the car prior to Mr A 
acquiring it. 
This is further supported by the fact that V said the engine  may have an underlying issue 
and might need replacing. And, most significantly, in my view, that the EGR needed 
replacing again at around 94,000 miles.  Therefore, the EGR components  have been  
replaced three times  in the space of 30,000 miles,  this appears to be far too frequent  and 
suggests an underlying problem with the car. 
The head  gasket problem also returned  following the repair in October 2019, albeit nearly a 
year later. But all of this leads me to conclude its most likely all of the faults  with the car are 
likely to be linked and due to an underlying problem with the car. 
Santander has said that Mr A had unauthorised  repairs carried  out by V in October 2018. It 
says the only repairs  it should be liable for are those  related to the head  gasket. But it seems 
everything V replaced in October  2018 (with the exception of the coils) did relate to the head 
gasket fault. All of the components work in conjunction with each other and V has said other 
components needed replacing  due to the faulty  head gasket.  
The warranty company  has said the EGR components didnt need replacing. But I havent 
seen anything persuasive to demonstrate why it reached this conclusion.  As Ive mentioned 
above, the EGR was replaced 10,000 miles earlier so there would be no need to replace it 
Ref: DRN46468714unless it had failed.  Further, the EGR failed again  another 10,000  miles later suggesting  
there is a fault with the car causing  premature failure of these  components. Therefore, Im 
persuaded that all the repair work  V carried out in October 2018 did relate  to the head  
gasket (except the coils). As these faults  made the car of unsatisfactory quality, I think 
Santander ought to cover the cost of these repairs. 
The majority of the subsequent repairs in February,  May and July 2019 I think  are linked to 
the faults the car experienced in October  2018.  So, I think Santander needs to also pay for 
those repairs. 
I note Santander  didnt ask Mr A to carry out that further work at those garages,  nor did the 
dealership. However,  Ive seen from Santanders  contact notes that Mr A did notify 
Santander prior to the work being  completed. And Santander dont appear  to have said to 
Mr A that he ought to have the car repaired somewhere else or that they wanted an 
opportunity to inspect  the faults  first. In any event, it appears the dealership  wasnt  able to 
carry out any repairs themselves and would have likely directed Mr A to the warranty  
company which  is what  hes done here. So, I dont think Santander  has lost an opportunity  to 
repair or inspect the car that it otherwise  would  have done. 
I think the repairs carried out in May and July 2019 all relate to the underlying fault with the 
car, so Santander ought to refund these payments in full, which  total £1,992.17. However, 
the repairs in February  werent entirely related to this issue. The majority of the cost was for 
Mr A to replace a set of tyres. Only £50.59 related to issues  with the coolant, so this is all 
that Santander is required to refund to Mr A in relation to the February  2019  repairs.  
From the October 2018 repair, only the coils didnt appear to relate to the underlying  fault 
with the car. So the total cost of repairs Santander  should refund is £2,173.61. However, I 
understand Mr A has already received a refund of £500 from the dealership, £500 from 
Santander and £589.18 from the warranty company.  This leaves £584.43 for Santander to 
refund. 
Mr A has clearly  been inconvenienced  by the number  of times hes had to take the car in for 
repairs. Santander also doesnt appear  to have given him much assistance when hes 
contacted them about the issues  the car was having. Taking everything into consideration 
I think Santander ought to pay Mr A an additional  £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he was caused. 
Lastly, our investigator  recommended Santander  pay Mr A interest on the repair  refunds  at 
the rate at which interest had accrued on the credit cards which  were  used to pay for them.  
However, Id only consider it reasonable to award  interest on a refund if I thought Mr A had 
been unfairly deprived of the use of money hed otherwise have had access to. In this case, 
it wasnt Mr A that paid for the repairs, it was his relative. Mr As relative  has therefore 
suffered the loss in interest, not Mr A. Mr As relative  isnt an eligible complainant in this 
complaint and I therefore cant  make any award  for losses they have suffered. 
Santander didnt  respond to my provisional  decision.  Mr A agreed  but said that he hadnt yet 
received the £500 from the dealership or from Santander so felt that this should still be paid 
to him on top of the award  Id recommended. 
Ref: DRN46468715my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion I reached  in my provisional decision and for broadly the same reasons. 
Mr A has said he should be paid an additional  £1,000 for the repair  costs  as he hasnt been 
reimbursed for this yet by the dealership or Santander. I agree.  My provisional  decision 
explained why I thought  he shouldnt  be responsible  for paying towards those repair  costs.  
Santander should therefore  ensure it pays this to him, less anything  hes already received 
from the dealership  or Santander  directly.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to:
Refund Mr A £3,627.19 for the repair costs. If Mr A has already received £500  from 
the dealership  towards these costs Santander can deduct this amount from the 
refund. 
Pay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2021.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4646871