K822xthe complaint
Mr C says TSB Bank  plcs IT problems  had an impact on him.
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. Mr C said this meant he lost online  
access to his accounts and his debit  card stopped working. He said he had to borrow money  
to pay for building work and buy food. Hed complained to TSB but it hadnt  replied. 
TSB issued  a final response in January 2019, apologising for the problems Mr C had and for 
the delay answering his complaint. TSB paid Mr C £100 for distress  and inconvenience and 
£50 for out of pocket expenses. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought  this was fair compensation for the 
issues raised. But Mr C didnt agree. He said the payment didnt take into account the time, 
inconvenience and expense of having  to borrow money from others. And he also said his 
partner had made the same complaint about their account and got £275 and a much quicker 
response.  
A second adjudicator then looked at the complaint. After reviewing Mr Cs bank statements 
she noted that he didnt seem  to use the accounts for day to day spending,  so she asked 
him to clarify which transactions  hed been prevented  from doing.  She also explained that we 
could only look at the complaint raised by Mr C. And she explained that Mr C could have 
referred his complaint to this service  if he wasnt  happy with TSBs delay. 
Mr C reiterated that hed been prevented from accessing the money in his savings accounts 
when he needed  to. And he still wasnt happy  that his partner got more  compensation than 
he did, or that TSB took so long to answer his complaint.
As the case couldnt  be resolved informally its been passed to me to decide.  
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I think the £150 TSB has already  paid to Mr C for the impact the IT issues  
had on him is a fair way to resolve  this complaint. 
Mr C is clearly very unhappy with the overall service  hes had from TSB. But were  not a 
regulatory body  and any award  I make  isnt intended to act as a punishment for the 
business. Instead my role is to look at Mr Cs individual complaint and weigh up the overall 
impact the issues had on him and then decide whether I think  the business has already 
provided fair compensation. And I can only look at Mr Cs complaint here  so I cant  take 
into account, or comment on, anyone elses complaint and what  compensation they might  
have got. 
Mr C has described being  unable to access his accounts online for five days, which  he says 
stopped him accessing his savings when he really  needed to. I appreciate that must have 
been frustrating,  but the problem was relatively  short-lived   and Mr C was able to work 
around it by borrowing money from a family  member. Hes mentioned extra costs to do that, 
Ref: DRN45871112but hasnt offered any evidence to suggest they were more  than the £50 TSB has already 
paid him for out of pocket  expenses. So I think what TSB has already paid Mr C is a fair 
reflection of the impact the problem is likely  to have had. 
TSB took several months to answer  this complaint, but I dont  think  it was deliberately 
avoiding it as Mr C says.  I think its just that TSB got a large  number of complaints at the 
same time  so didnt  deal with Mr Cs complaint as quickly as it should  have. As the 
adjudicator has already  pointed out, Mr C could have referred  his complaint to us sooner 
than he did. I appreciate hes said he was giving TSB a chance to respond, which  is fair 
enough. But it was his choice to do that and I dont think it means TSB should now 
compensate him further.   
Taking everything into account,  I think the £150 TSB has already paid to Mr C is fair 
compensation for the issues hes raised  and the impact they had on him. 
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc has paid Mr C a fair amount of compensation to 
resolve his complaint. So I make no further  order or award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4587111