K821x#15complaint
Mr S complained about a number of loans  he took out through a company called Elevate 
Credit International  Limited, trading as Sunny. Mr S says he was lent to irresponsibly and 
the loans caused him financial problems.
background
We now know that Mr S took out 6 loans from Sunny  between  August 2016 and March 2017.
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in January 2020,  comprehensively setting  
out why I thought the complaint should be only partly upheld,  for loan number 6 only.   And I 
asked both parties to provide any further submissions or information to me within one month. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  It seems neither party wants to send in 
any new information or arguments. So theres no reason for me to change  the findings  I set 
out in my provisional  decision. 
I therefore uphold  this complaint in respect of loan 6 only,  in line with my provisional  decision.
putting things right
In order to put things  right for Mr S, Sunny should:  
refund all interest  and charges Mr S paid on loan 6;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding  on loan 6 and treat any payments 
Mr S made towards this loan as payments towards the capital;
if reworking Mr Ss loan 6 account  as Ive directed  results  in Mr S effectively having 
made payments above the original  capital borrowed, then Sunny should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest  calculated on the overpayments,  from the date 
the overpayments  would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr Ss the loan 6 account  leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Sunny can use the total refund for any other outstanding  loans to offset this. And if there 
is still an outstanding  capital balance then I would remind Sunny that it should take a 
sympathetic view when  seeking to agree an affordable  repayment plan with Mr S for the 
remaining capital;
the number of loans  taken at the point  of loan 6 onwards means any information 
recorded about loan 6 is adverse.  So all entries about loan 6 should be completely 
removed from Mr Ss credit file.
Ref: DRN40883862If it has sold the outstanding debts  it should  buy these back  if able to do so and then 
take the following steps.  If not able to buy the debts back then Sunny should liaise with 
the new debt owner  to achieve the results outlined above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr S a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I partly uphold this complaint  and I direct  Elevate Credit 
International Limited to pay Mr S the above  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN40883863summary   provisional decision
complaint
Mr S complained about a number of loans  he took out through a company called Elevate Credit  
International Limited, trading  as Sunny. Mr S says he was lent to irresponsibly and the loans  caused 
him financial problems.
background
We now know  that Mr S took out 6 loans from Sunny between  August 2016 and March 2017.  Ive 
enclosed a summary  of Mr Ss borrowing with Sunny, based on the information  it provided  to us. It 
can be found  in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  into the complaint and said they thought it should  be partially upheld; 
for loan numbers  5 and 6 only. Sunny doesnt agree  so the complaint has come to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  Ive 
followed this approach when  thinking about Mr Ss complaint.
Having done this Im afraid I dont currently think we should  uphold Mr Ss complaint for loans 1 - 5. 
Im only minded to uphold loan number  6.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Mr S could  repay  the 
loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have  taken into account  a range  
of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure.  
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate. However,  certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should have 
fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to meet  a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which a 
customer has been  given  loans  (reflecting  the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.  Ive carefully considered all of these things and 
what they mean for Mr Ss complaint.
Ref: DRN40883864Sunny told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks  before agreeing  to lend to Mr S. Ive 
thought about this, and Ive also looked  at the overall  pattern of lending history with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which Sunny should  reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. Ive considered  whether, at some point,  Sunny should  have 
realised that it shouldnt  have provided any further loans.
With this information, and bearing in mind what Ive said above about the length of the lending  
relationship, I think the particular checks which Sunny most likely carried  out appear to have been 
proportionate for loan numbers  1, 2, 3 and 4. I think  the levels of likely checks, together with the 
income and expenditure  details provided  by Mr S himself, would have made  these 4 loans appear 
affordable for him. 
I have taken a careful note that the pattern  of Mr Ss borrowing was such  that he took these 4 loans 
out in relatively quick succession and that for loans  2 and 3, these were taken out whilst  still having 
the existing loans outstanding. Nevertheless, loans 2 and 3 were  for moderate amounts and as they 
were 6 month instalment loans, the proposed repayments  for each were relatively low and spread out 
over that period, even if Mr S did seem to settle his loans  early.  All 4 loans  appear to have been  well 
within Mr Ss declared  ability to repay.
For loan number 5, our adjudicator thought Sunny ought not to have  lent Mr S this money. But I dont 
think theres evidence to support this. I accept that it would probably  have been prudent  for Sunny at 
this stage to have carried  out more detailed checks, such as looking carefully at Mr Ss bank 
statements and his other financial  affairs. We asked to see details  of these  covering the relevant  time 
period, but I havent seen any information about  his finances that suggests  Sunny would have altered 
its lending position.  In short, even it had been more diligent in its financial  checking  of Mr S, I think 
what Ive seen  so far shows it would  probably  have still thought it was safe to give him loan number 5. 
I think  the evidence points to this loan still being sustainable for him.
Mr S declared  his take-home pay as around £1,900 per month and given  his declared  outgoings, loan 
5 seems to me to have  been  well within  his capabilities. It also didnt add substantially to his overall 
Sunny repayments at that point. I dont therefore intend  to uphold this part of his complaint.
However, I think in Mr S seeking another loan after this point, Sunny should have again changed  its 
approach. It ought to have more thoroughly  looked into his financial affairs and also considered the 
effect the repeated  lending might have on Mr S. In saying this, Ive taken account  that loan 6 was for a 
lesser amount hed previously been asking  to borrow. But hed now taken out 6 short-term loans and 
had been borrowing  like this from Sunny 7 months. And in common with his borrowing pattern thus 
far, he was again asking to borrow from Sunny whilst  a previous loan was still outstanding. 
So Sunny ought to have  realised that Mr S wasnt merely borrowing to deal with short-term cash-flow  
problems; he was borrowing  regularly, to address shortfalls and to meet an ongoing need.  Mr S was 
consistently taking out high interest,  short-term lending  over a sustained  period and the indebtedness 
caused by this type of borrowing was harmful,  in my view. Sunny should have seen this and ought to 
have realised Mr S was at risk of not managing  to repay loan 6 sustainably or getting  into financial 
difficulties. 
So Im considering upholding this complaint in respect of loan 6 only. By this point Sunny  had been  
repeatedly lending to Mr S in an unsustainable manner because:
 
loan 6 had the effect of unfairly prolonging  his indebtedness  by allowing him to take expensive  
credit intended  for short-term use, over an extended  time period;  and
the length of time over which  Mr S borrowed  was likely to have had negative implications on his 
ability to access  mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these  high-cost loans
Ref: DRN40883865my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I intend to partially  uphold  this complaint. Ill look at any further 
information either party  wants  to send in before making  my final decision  after 29 February  2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Appendix
Loan Taken Out Borrowed RepaidSum of monthly  
instalments (rounded)
1.15/08/2016 £350 16/12/2016 £115
2.10/11/2016 £50 22/11/2016 £130
3.02/12/2016 £100 16/12/2016 £146
4.21/12/2016 £350 20/01/2017 £116
5.26/01/2017 £350 Outstanding £113
6.30/03/2017 £50 Outstanding £128
Ref: DRN4088386