K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained about a mortgage  payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy that 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) sold her in August 1998.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 28th March 2019,  where I concluded that I was minded to 
not uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
In summary,  I found:
Mrs H applied for a store card in August 1998. At the same time a PPI policy was added. 
The policy covered  her against accidents, sickness and unemployment.
I concluded the PPI policy was more  likely  than not presented as optional to Mrs H. I 
could see from the sales documentation provided including  the application form that it 
was more likely put across as an optional requirement and Mrs H signed for it.
There may have been shortcomings in the way FICL sold the policy. But after careful  
consideration I could  not conclude that these possible shortcomings would have affected 
Mrs Hs decision  to take the policy. 
I was unable to conclude that Mrs H would have  necessarily  declined the policy  if the 
information she had received would  have been any clearer.
Mrs H had a medical  condition but I didnt think this would  have put her off from having 
the cover  as she said she hadnt taken time off work for it and it didnt impact on her day 
to day life at that time.
I concluded that I was minded to not uphold her complaint and invited comments  on this 
from both parties.  
my findings
I have again considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have not provided  any further  information for me to consider.
As neither party has raised any further  points,  I see no reason to depart from my conclusion  
given within  the provisional decision.  So I conclude that the policy was not mis-sold and I do 
not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint  and I do not make any award 
against Financial  Insurance  Company Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4225962