K821x#15complaint
Mrs F complains that West Bromwich Building  Society mis-sold her payment protection  
insurance (PPI).  
background
Mrs F took out a mortgage with West Bromwich  Building Society in 2003. During a phone 
call in August 2004 West Bromwich Building  Society sold PPI to Mrs F. The policy provided 
cover for accident, sickness  and unemployment.
Our adjudicator thought that Mrs Fs mis-sale complaint should be upheld. Our adjudicator 
said that as Mrs F was self employed, the circumstances when she could make an 
unemployment claim were quite limited. 
Our adjudicator felt that West Bromwich  Building  Society shouldnt  have  recommended  the 
policy without pointing  out that it didnt  meet all of Mrs Fs needs.
West Bromwich  Building Society  didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings. The complaint 
came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Ive listened to the call recording when  West Bromwich Building Society sold the PPI to 
Mrs F. And Ive considered everything  West Bromwich Building Society has said in response 
to the adjudicators view. But I still think its fair to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. 
Heres why I say this.
Mrs F was self employed. 
Looking at the policy document West Bromwich Building Society has provided, I think  it 
wouldve been more  difficult for Mrs F to make an unemployment claim (as a self-employed  
person under these policy terms) than it wouldve  been for an employee. 
Thats because Mrs F wouldnt have been  able to make a successful  unemployment claim 
unless she could show she had involuntarily  ceased trading due to financial insolvency and 
she had notified  the Inland  Revenue that she had ceased trading.  
I consider this was a significant limitation in this particular policy  because  for self-employed 
people to be able to make  a successful claim for unemployment, they had to demonstrate 
that their business was insolvent and that they had reported this to the Inland Revenue.  This 
effectively means a self-employed person would have to wait until their business had failed 
before making  a claim.  I think this is an onerous term.
So, I think the policy terms  put Mrs F at a disadvantage compared  to the position she 
wouldve been in as an employed person when it came to being  able to claim successfully 
under the policy  for unemployment.   
Ive taken into account all of West Bromwich Building Societys comments. 
Ref: DRN45016282In particular, it says it did not provide Mrs F with any advice in relation to the insurance, it 
simply drew  the terms to her attention  so that she could make an informed choice  during  the 
phone call. And when Mrs F said she was self-employed  the advisor informed her that she 
had to provide  proof that her business  had ceased  trading to make a successful employment 
claim. West  Bromwich Building Society  says that after it confirmed this, it was Mrs Fs 
decision as to whether  she wanted  to take the insurance and she made an informed choice 
to do so.
The Society doesnt believe that the insurance  was mis-sold on this basis.
Ive noted that this policy was sold over the phone and I accept that the advisor presented  
the policy as optional at the time of sale. But West Bromwich Building Society previously told 
us it was treating  this as an advised  sale and that it made a recommendation for the cover  
based on what Mrs F told the advisor  about her circumstances at the time. And having 
listened carefully to the phone call, I think its fair to say that Mrs F couldve reasonably 
understood that the policy was being  recommended to her. At one point during the call, the 
advisor explained that Mrs F would only have to start to pay for the policy at the end of the 
initial free period, when she could decide if she wanted  to keep it. It sounds to me like the 
advisor then said ...the  only thing that we recommend - and obviously we strongly dois  
that you keep  the policy  going  at that stage...  
As an advised sale, the onus was on West Bromwich Building  Society  to draw Mrs Fs 
attention to features of the cover that impacted  on her particular situation. I cant  see enough 
information to persuade  me that West Bromwich Building Society  did enough to make clear  
to Mrs F significant policy details that affected  her. Unemployment cover  for Mrs F was an 
important part of the protection she thought she was buying. 
Even if I accept that West Bromwich Building Society didnt  give advice or a recommendation 
about PPI to Mrs F, it still had to make sure it told Mrs F enough about the policy for her to 
be able to decide if she wanted to buy it. I dont think it did this. And if it had done,  I think  this 
mightve put Mrs F off taking out the policy. 
So what  West Bromwich Building  Society  says doesnt change my conclusion.
I think its likely that Mrs F wouldnt have bought  the policy if she had understood its 
limitations in her particular  employment  circumstances. So, I think Mrs F has lost out. 
Our adjudicator also mentioned another reason why he felt we should uphold  Mrs Fs 
complaint. But Ive already decided to uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive set out 
above. So, I dont  consider that I need  to make any further findings as this will make  no 
difference to the outcome.
Ref: DRN45016283Based on the information Id seen, my provisional decision was to uphold this complaint.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision  
West Bromwich  Building Society  has told me it has nothing further to add in relation to my 
provisional decision. And Mrs F said she had no further comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in 
my provisional decision. 
putting things right
West Bromwich  Building Society  should  put Mrs F in the position shed be in now if she 
hadnt taken out PPI. I understand the policy is already cancelled so West Bromwich  
Building Society should:
Pay Mrs F the amount  she paid each month  for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, West Bromwich Building  Society  
can take off what she got for the claim  from the amount it owes  her.  
If West Bromwich  Building Society has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs F 
that relates to this PPI sale, that sum can be deducted by West Bromwich Building  
Society from the redress shown above. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires West Bromwich Building Society  to take off tax from this 
interest. West Bromwich Building  Society must give Mrs F a certificate showing how much 
tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN45016284my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct West Bromwich Building Society  to pay Mrs F as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4501628