K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage arranged for Miss P by Connells Limited. Miss P 
complains that it was set up with a 30-year term when it should  have been 25 years. She 
wants compensation for the extra lifetime cost of the mortgage and associated life 
assurance.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 11 October 2019, I set out, with reasons, the basis  on 
which I intended to determine the complaint,  subject to final submissions  from the parties. 
Ive heard from Connells and Miss P; both have said theyve nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive been given no reason to depart from 
my provisional conclusions, so I dont.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, I reject this complaint on the basis that Connells 
Limiteds offer to pay Miss P £150  compensation is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2019. 
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN47908902CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage arranged  for Miss P by Connells Limited. Miss P complains that it 
was set up with a 30-year term when it should have been 25 years. She wants  compensation for the 
extra lifetime cost of the mortgage and associated life assurance.
background
In 2015, Miss P went to Connells to arrange her mortgage; after an extensive discussion with 
Connells adviser,  she decided she wanted a mortgage with a 25-year term,  with life assurance to 
match. Connells issued  her with the standard illustration   which included  details of the two-year 
interest rate deal it had recommended - and submitted a mortgage  application to the lender.  It also 
applied for the corresponding life assurance policy.
Unfortunately, Connells  made a mistake at this point; the mortgage application  was sent with a 
request for a 30-year term (the life cover application was for the intended 25 years). The lender 
agreed the mortgage as requested, an offer went  out, and it seems  no one addressed  the 
discrepancy. It wasnt addressed until September 2017 when the initial two-year rate was ending and 
Connells was involved  in arranging  a new deal for Miss P.
When the mistake  was discussed, Miss P elected to stay with the longer  term; when the new rate deal 
went through, the mortgage  term was reset at 28 years (rather  than 23) and Miss P took out a new life 
policy with a term to match. She then complained about the extra lifetime costs shed now face. 
Connells offered Miss P £150 compensation, which  she refused,  referring the complaint to us instead.
Our investigator initially thought  Connells offer to be fair, given that Miss P had chosen to stay with 
the longer term once  it had been discovered. He later said that Connells should reimburse Miss P the 
extra cost of changing the insurance. The parties werent  willing  to settle so the case was referred  to 
me. 
At my suggestion, the investigator looked at the case afresh and after some further consideration,  
issued a further  revised view of the case. He said that Connells should work  out how much more  of 
the mortgage debt would have been repaid  if the term had been set correctly  at the start,  and pay 
Miss P that figure as a lump sum, along with the £150 already offered.  
Miss P accepted the investigators new proposal, but Connells has exercised its right to have the case  
reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come back to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I dont need to decide  if Connells has made a mistake; its accepted by all parties that Connells 
wrongly applied for a 30-year mortgage when it should  have been 25. Miss P has paid everything the 
lender has asked her to pay but the trouble  is, she wasnt asked to pay enough. Setting the loan up 
over 30 years meant the monthly  repayments  were too low; this is called underfunding.
We have  an established approach to underfunding. When it happens because of a business  error, 
well usually tell the business to compensate  the customer by crediting the mortgage account with the 
money that should have been paid in if the borrower  had been  paying  the right amount. 
Ref: DRN47908903Occasionally we might say the business can deduct from the compensation the amount the customer 
has saved  by not making the higher payments,  but most  times we dont. Thats  because  generally 
the customer  didnt realise they were under-paying, and the money theyve saved has been absorbed 
into their day-to-day budget. Instead, well typically say that the historic saving  should take the place 
of an award  of compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If the mistake is made by a lender, its relatively easy to tell a lender to re-work a mortgage account  to 
reflect the lower balance that would exist if it had been set up correctly and the right level of payments 
made. Its a little more  complex when the error  was made by a third party.  A third party  cant  reduce  a 
customers mortgage account,  but what it can do is pay them the necessary  sum of money  which they 
can pay to their mortgage account if they wish to.
In the simplest of terms,  thats what the investigator has now said Connells should  do, but there was 
some important detail missing from the proposed  settlement. When  were contemplating making an 
award for underfunding, we need to consider whether, if the correct payments had been demanded 
from the outset,  the consumer could have afforded them. We also need to consider when  the 
consumer realised  (or could have realised) the loan wasnt on track  to be repaid on time,  and how 
they reacted when they found out. 
The investigators  current  view has addressed  the former,  but not, it seems to me, the latter.  The 
reason this matters is that it goes to the issue of mitigation. Mitigation  is the principle that the party  
suffering from an error  (in this case Miss P) has a duty to minimise the adverse impact, once  the error  
has been revealed. 
Its generally accepted that Miss P was made aware  of the mistake in 2017,  when the new rate deal 
was being processed, but I have to consider whether  she could have known  before then. I said in the 
background summary above that no one addressed the discrepancy  when the mortgage offer was 
issued with the wrong term. 
My use of the word addressed  was deliberate, because theres evidence  to suggest the discrepancy 
was picked  up, at least by Connells. Theres a note in its systems dated  6 October  2015 
(approximately three weeks after the offer was issued)  referencing the term as 30, and then another  
on the same  day apparently  indicating that an amendment was being sought from the MSC (Im 
taking that to mean Mortgage Service Centre). 
Theres nothing further in the notes to suggest an amendment was pursued (which is supported by 
the fact that mortgage completed on a 30-year term). More importantly, theres nothing in the notes to 
indicate that Connells ever told Miss P there was a problem. But matters dont end there.
Its reasonable  to assume that Connells passed a copy  of the mortgage offer to Miss P. I dont know if 
she paid close attention to its contents, or whether she simply assumed it matched with the initial 
illustration. Generally speaking,  we do expect consumers  to check their mortgage offer,  chiefly in 
order to make sure it matches what theyve been told earlier in the sales process. 
The mortgage  offer set out all of the relevant information about the contract  in the manner  prescribed 
by the regulator of mortgages, and included  specific reference to it having a 30-year term. It also 
showed a monthly payment which was significantly different from what  was in the original  illustration. I 
dont think it would be unfair to say Miss P should have realised the error at the outset.  
Its always possible, of course, that she did notice it, but decided not to question it, having  decided  in 
retrospect that she preferred  the lower  cost. The suitability record shows that she and Connells 
advisor had discussed both terms  as possible options. Connells recommended 25 years, which Miss 
P accepted  at that point. But I can understand why Miss P might have  changed her mind  when the 
mortgage offer came through with a 30-year term, and a monthly  payment around £37 lower  than 
shed have been paying over 25 years. 
Ref: DRN47908904That would also go some  way towards explaining  why, when the time came to renew the interest rate 
in late 2017  which brought with it the opportunity for a discussion about the mis-match between the 
mortgage and life assurance  Miss P decided to change the life assurance to match the mortgage 
rather than the other way around. 
Of course, its possible it wasnt a deliberate choice  in 2015 but an omission because Miss P didnt 
notice the term on the offer was wrong. But that would mean  she hadnt mitigated  the effect  of 
Connells mistake when the opportunity to do so was there. So the net outcome would  be the same. 
On balance, however, Im not so sure this was an omission. I say that not least because,  aside from 
the mortgage offer, receipt of the annual mortgage statements for 2015 and 2016 (both of which  
would have said how long the mortgage had left to run) would  have given  Miss P two more 
opportunities to notice  the longer term, and ask for something to be done about  it, if shed wanted to. 
Putting all of that together, whilst Connells did made a mistake that led to Miss Ps mortgage being set 
up with a 30-year  term, Im not persuaded it should compensate her for any adverse effect that 
created. Its possible Miss P now regrets  committing herself to bear the greater lifetime  cost of paying 
the mortgage off over the longer term, but overall, I believe it was a choice  she made.
That brings  me to the question of compensation  for distress and inconvenience;  Connells offered 
£150, and in all the circumstances,  I think  thats probably fair.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to the further submissions of the parties, my provisional 
decision is that I intend  to reject this complaint on the basis that Connells Limiteds offer to pay Miss P 
£150 compensation is fair in all the circumstances.
Im sorry that weve taken as long as we have to get to this stage  with Miss Ps complaint. Im also 
very aware that what I have decided is the same broad  outcome that our investigator reached in his 
original view,  and which Miss P rejected. But I hope  that now the case  has been set out in its proper 
context, and with a full explanation of how and why that outcome has been reached, Miss P will 
understand why I consider  it to be a fair resolution.
Ill review my provisional decision after 25 October 2019, or sooner than that if both parties confirm  
theyve said and provided  all they wish to that is materially new.  Theres no need for either party to 
repeat anything theyve already said.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4790890