K820x#14complaint
Mr J, on behalf of a limited company, S, complains that Aviva  Insurance  Limited have 
unfairly declined  his companys insurance claim for stolen property.
For ease, references  to Mr J include acts or omissions of S.
background
Mr J is the director of a company of specialist surveyors, for which  he holds an engineering 
policy with Aviva that covers his equipment  (amongst other things) against damage and 
theft. 
Mr J had two operatives working at a contract site when  some  of their hired  equipment was 
stolen on 15 June 2016. The equipment consisted  of a Total station (an electrical/optical 
instrument used for surveying and building construction), as well as a field controller and 
other surveying accessories. 
Mr J made  a claim on the engineering policy for the theft of the equipment. But Aviva  
declined the claim  on the basis that Mr Js operatives had left the equipment unattended and 
unsecured at the time it was stolen. Aviva said that both operatives had their backs  turned 
away from the equipment  at the time it was stolen, and neither of them  witnessed  the theft or 
were able to interfere to stop it from happening. As the equipment  was not secured  at the 
time it was left unattended, Aviva said that cover for theft was excluded under the policy.
Mr J says that Avivas decision to apply the exclusion is unfair because it ignores the way in 
which the equipment  is supposed to be used, as he says a total line of sight is required in 
order for the unit to function. Mr J also says it wouldve been difficult to witness  the theft, and 
feels he is being penalised because his operatives failed to intervene.  Finally, Mr J argued 
that the equipment was in use at the time and attended, so he refused to accept that a 
security device was required in such circumstances.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought Aviva had applied the exclusion 
fairly given  that there appeared to be a short  period of time when the equipment  was left 
unattended and unsecured; and because neither of the operators  was in a position to 
prevent the theft from occurring. Mr J disagreed, so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
Mr Js policy  covers the damage or theft of electrical  equipment. But this section of the policy  
is subject to an exclusion under Special Endorsement  2 in the policy schedule, which states:
All cover  for theft and attempted theft is excluded  when  Property  Insured is left unattended 
away from The Premises unless it is being  used and has been secured to the ground  or an 
immovable object. 
So the determining  factor in this case is whether it can be said that the equipment  stolen was 
left unattended and, if it had, whether it had been appropriately secured. There is no 
definition of the term left unattended  in the policy. But a relevant test was set out by the 
Ref: DRN45091282Court of Appeal in Starfire Diamond  Rings Ltd v Angel [1962] 2 Lloyds Rep. 217, which  is 
still good law (and has been applied by later Courts of Appeal as recently as 2015,  cf. Milton 
Furniture Ltd v Brit Insurance Ltd [2015] EWCA Civ 671). Lord Denning  held that, for an item 
to be attended,  there must be someone able to keep it under observation, that is, in a 
position to observe any attempt to interfere with it, and who is so placed as to have  a 
reasonable prospect of preventing any unauthorised interference with it. This is weighty 
authority from a very eminent Master of the Rolls.  I am also satisfied his legal test is still fair 
and reasonable,  so there arent good grounds for me to depart from it. On the contrary, its 
something we ordinarily take into account when  deciding insurance cases  of this nature. 
In the circumstances of the theft in Mr Js case,  both operatives  had set up their respective 
Total stations at opposite  corners  diagonally across the contract  site, which  had no security 
fences or perimeters.  Operative number  1 (O1) was standing  on the north-western corner  
with his Total station,  whereas operative  number two (O2)  had set his station up on the 
opposite southern  corner.  The loss adjuster said that O2 had to walk towards O1s station in 
order to set up a reference  object on his control station, and it was around this point  that 
O2s equipment was stolen. 
When interviewed, O1 said:
I was standing north west of the site in a walled and hedged  off area on a surveying control 
point with a [company S] owned survey total stations keeping  guard waiting  for my colleague 
to approach me so he can set a reference  object on my control  station. As he approached 
me with his back towards the hire instrument and I turned my back to move my total station  
so he can set a reference  object to begin his work and his hire station was stolen in this 
moment. As we did not see who the culprit  was we did notice there was a CCTV camera on 
the corner of the building near to where  the hire instrument  was stolen.
Whereas O2 stated:
I was setting up my last station. I stepped away  from the instrument to get my pole to 
continue the setup, by the time I turned back around to my instrument [it] with the tribrach  
and tripod  were all taken. The only viable way this would  have  happened  would have been 
[sic] the person  jumped over the wall or came  from a nearby flat as there  was no footage of 
anyone leaving the area using the provided entrances/exits.
So from both these  accounts it appears that O1 and O2 both had their backs to the 
equipment when it was stolen.  But there appears to be some disparity between  the two 
statements, as O1 says that O2 had to walk over to his corner to set a reference  point,  
whereas O2 says he merely stepped away from his unit. 
Theres little evidence available to determine  the length of time in which O2 had moved away 
from his Total station.  And Mr J says that a total line of sight is required in order  for the unit 
to function. I appreciate this may be the case,  but given that neither O1 nor O2 saw or heard 
the theft occur, or even knew of its occurrence until the station lost signal, I think its unlikely 
that either of the operatives could  see the equipment,  or were close enough  such  that they 
could be considered to be in attendance of it.
So according to the test laid down  in Starfire  if O1 and O2 both had their backs  to the 
equipment and were  unable to see it  it would appear that neither of them  was in a position  
to attempt to interfere with the theft of the equipment. And given that neither of them  heard 
or saw the theft occur, it doesnt seem  likely  that they were close  enough  to have a 
Ref: DRN45091283reasonable prospect of preventing any unauthorised interference with the equipment either.  
So based  on the evidence available, I dont think Aviva have acted  unreasonably  by 
concluding that O2s equipment had been  left unattended.  
Mr J says its not fair that he is being  penalised because  his operatives failed to intervene  in 
a criminal act. But the legal test of being in attendance of an item does not require the owner 
to physically intervene in any attempts to steal the item; it simply requires that theyre  in a 
position to observe any attempt to interfere with, so as to act as a deterrent for any would-be 
thieves. And in the circumstances,  Im not persuaded that either O1 or O2 were  in such a 
position. 
So given that Ive concluded  the equipment was left unattended at the relevant time, the 
policy requires it to have  been secured to the ground or an immovable object. The loss 
adjusters report states he was advised  that neither  of the Total stations were secured as 
they did not have the equipment to do so. Mr J hasnt disputed this, but he submits that the 
equipment was in use at the time, so he does not think that a security  device  was required in 
such circumstances. 
I appreciate that the equipment may have  been in use, but if it has been  left unattended,  
then cover under the policy is excluded unless the item is being used and has been  secured 
to the ground  or an immovable object, which it wasnt. So the mere  fact that the equipment 
was being used when it was stolen  does not mean that the exclusion  ought not to apply, as it 
was not secured as required by the policy.
I can see from the loss adjusters report that Mr J has now purchased a number of security  
devices which hell use to secure the equipment in the future, so I can see that the stations 
are at least capable of being  secured.  So given that it was not secured in these 
circumstances, I do not feel that Aviva  have applied the exclusion unfairly,  and I will not be 
asking them to do anything further  in this case. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Jack Ferris 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4509128