K820x#14complaint
Mr P says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000.  The PPI was added to 
Mr Ps credit  card account when he applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. I explain why below.
The postal application Mr P completed  had a box to tick if Mr P wanted the policy.  Had he 
not wanted the policy he could have not ticked the box. In Mr Ps application, the box for the 
PPI has been  ticked.  So Im persuaded that Mr P chose  to take the PPI knowing he didnt 
have to.
The sale was non-advised so RBS didnt have to ensure  it was suitable for Mr Ps needs. 
RBS did have to provide  information to Mr P that was enough to help him make an informed 
choice about whether  it was right for him. 
Its possible that the information RBS gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  Mr P wouldve still bought the policy  anyway if better information 
was given. I say this because:
Ive considered the terms  of the policy and what hes said about his circumstances 
when he took out the PPI. From this I think he was eligible for the cover  the policy  
offered. And I dont  think he was affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations in the 
terms. 
I think Mr P could  have found  the policy useful. I say this because  whilst Mr Ps initial  
sick pay was good, it dropped  significantly  after six months.  This policy could have 
paid 10% of the card balance for up to 12 months  in the event of long term ill health, 
or if he lost his job. And this would pay out in addition to his existing benefits. So, I 
think hed have  thought the policy offered  some potentially useful cover.  
So I dont  think that Mr P has lost out as a result  of anything that RBS may have 
done wrong.
Ref: DRN40882632my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4088263