K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined  a claim under his 
home insurance policy for damage to a retaining wall.
background
In April 2018 Mr A made a claim to RSA after a dry stone retaining  wall on the boundary of 
his property partly collapsed. He said he and his neighbour were jointly liable  to repair  the 
wall. Mr A said his neighbour's insurer had accepted the neighbour's claim.
RSA declined the claim. It said there  hadn't been  a storm around the time the damage 
happened. It also said Mr A couldn't claim under the accidental damage section of his policy  
because there was an exclusion for damage  that happened gradually.  It thought  the wall 
had been  gradually  deteriorating.
Mr A brought his complaint to this service. I issued  a provisional decision not upholding the 
complaint. I said that in order  for the damage  claimed for by Mr A to be covered under his 
policy, he needed to show that it was caused by one of the insured  events listed  under the 
policy such as storm, flood, etc. If a policyholder could show  that the damage  being claimed 
for happened  due to one of the policy's  insured events then the insurer must pay the claim, 
unless it could successfully  apply one of the policy exclusions to defeat  it.
In this case, RSA had firstly considered whether the cause of damage was storm, which  is 
an event covered by the policy. Very heavy snow and rain even without storm force  winds 
may be a storm.  But in this case there wasn't a single  storm event  that could be linked  to 
the damage but just a prolonged period of heavy rain and snow which might have caused  a 
build-up of water. If I thought a retaining wall has collapsed because  of earth behind it 
becoming saturated  over a period of time, I wouldn't regard this as a one-off  incident of 
storm damage. So I looked at whether this type of damage might  be covered by other  parts 
of Mr A's buildings  insurance policy.
Mr A's engineer and his neighbour's engineer thought the wall's collapse was linked 
to the very heavy snow and rain in the days before the damage  happened. Mr A's 
engineer reported:
"The cause of the collapsed section of retaining wall can only reasonably be 
assumed to be the unprecedented  flooding event preceding  the collapse. The flow 
of water  that appears  to have occurred will have both placed  additional  forces onto 
the retaining wall and washed out material within (and possibly  under) the retaining 
wall."
So I then looked  at whether the damage would be covered under the flood peril.  
Mr A's policy defines flood  as follows:
"A rapid build-up or sudden release  of water, from any source external to your  home or 
land belonging to your home,  which enters  your home or land belonging to your home
at, below  or above ground  level provided  that part of the body of water enters your home
at ground level ... ".
The policy defines  "home" as:
Ref: DRN40050892"The house. bungalow or flat at the address shown on your  Policy Schedule, its 
outbuildings, including  attached and detached garages.  annexes. conservatories. 
sheds and greenhouses."
I said that since as part of the same  flood, so far as I was aware, no water  entered  Mr A's 
home at ground level, unfortunately  for Mr A he wasnt covered for his loss under the 
flood peril either.
I noted Mr A's policy also covers  him for accidental damage. RSA accepted that this 
cover might  apply  but pointed out that the accidental damage  cover  is subject to an 
exclusion for any damage caused  by wear and tear or gradual deterioration. It said:
"The wall is freestanding to an estimated height  of 6 metres and seemingly  in excess  of 
100 years  old. It appears to have  simply succumbed to age."
The engineer acting for Mr A didn't agree that the wall was suffering from gradual 
deterioration at the time of the collapse. He said generally  it was in a good structural  
condition. Similarly the neighbour's engineer reported that a nearby section of the wall that 
hadn't collapsed was clearly satisfactory and there  was nothing  to suggest that the 
collapsed section  of wall wouldn't have  been the same.  He also thought  the thickness of 
the wall would  be adequate to withstand  the loads  imposed  on it.
RSA's loss adjuster explained that dry stone walls  are designed to avoid a build-up of 
water pressure behind the wall because any water should be able to drain away  freely 
through gaps in the stones. She said that by modern standards  the wall had already 
lasted much longer than it was designed  to. Walls may stand for over a hundred  years, as 
Mr A's wall apparently did, with only a marginal factor of safety. But slowly the factor  of 
safety may be eroded. She identified several  issues which might have affected its safety. 
She observed  roots in the soil behind the collapsed section of wall. She also pointed out a 
mass of vegetation growing  on top of that section of wall which  can be seen in photos. It 
seemed to me likely that this could have  worked  some of the stones loose over a period of 
time. There  was also a paved  patio and shed on top of that section of wall which  she 
noted were  presumably bearing down on it.
The loss adjuster also thought while the wall was sufficiently thick for its height,  there  was 
nothing really  holding  it all together. She said there should be regular stones (headers  or 
through stones)  the full thickness of the wall acting as ties to ensure that the wall acted as 
a unit. She thought  the photos of the wall clearly showed  an absence of such  suitably sized 
stones (as did the size of the stones  in the debris) which  in her opinion would be a major 
contributing factor  in the collapse along with the fact that the radius  bend would be a 
natural weak point likely to fail first.
Having carefully considered the expert reports,  I was satisfied that RSA's conclusions 
about the cause  of the collapse were the more persuasive. I thought  it was likely that a 
combination of these factors had been  causing this section of wall to deteriorate gradually  
over time. Then the gradual  build-up  of water  pressure in the soil from the rain and melting 
snow in preceding days might have  been  the final straw.
I appreciated that the cost of repairing the damage was likely to be significant, and that Mr A 
was likely to be disappointed  with my conclusions. However, my view was that RSA did not 
act unreasonably when  declining his claim.
Ref: DRN40050893In response Mr As representative made  the following points:
On the basis of the same evidence Mr As neighbours insurer had accepted liability for 
half the cost of reinstating  the wall. It was unfair of RSA to decline the claim in the same 
circumstances.
RSAs loss adjuster  had only made  one site visit. Mr A had been  disappointed to note that 
shed failed  to assess the area of patio above the wall and hadnt  established  whether  
any drainage issues  relating  to the patio  and drainage  from the roof of the neighbouring  
property were  connected with the failure  of the wall. Mr A questioned the thoroughness of 
her inspection.
Mr As expert had made several site visits and a more thorough investigation.
Mr A had later moved some stones which were  the full width  of the wall.
Mr A had fitted  a prop under his neighbours fence. While doing  so, hed noted that the 
amounts of soil and roots were minimal and not enough to make  the wall unstable.
Mr As expert believed  the wall had failed because of heavy snowfall on 2 April 2018 
followed by a very rapid thaw.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr A being extremely disappointed that RSA had declined  his claim for half 
the cost of repairing or replacing the damaged  wall, while his neighbours insurer  had 
accepted liability.  But that doesnt  necessarily mean  RSAs decision was unfair. Insurers 
write their policies to cover different risks and with different  exclusions so that the cover  they 
offer may vary to a greater or lesser extent even though  the damage which is the subject of 
a claim might be the same. I cant comment on why the neighbours insurer  accepted  the 
claim. I can only look at whether RSA treated Mr A fairly.
RSAs loss adjusters  report  makes  it clear that she did assess the area of patio above the 
wall although she didnt  go up to that area. She thought  the weight of the patio and the 
shrubs above it had contributed to the collapse of the wall. Having read her report and seen 
the photos accompanying it Im not persuaded that her investigation  was insufficiently 
thorough.
I accept that there may have been  some stones which  were  the full width of the wall. But 
having looked at the photos of the exposed sections of wall and the debris taken by the 
loss adjuster and Mr As engineer, I think  the loss adjuster  was correct in saying  that there 
werent regular stones the full thickness of the wall acting as ties. 
The same photos  show a large  mass  of small roots  in the wall which were presumably from 
the vegetation above. I think this supports RSAs loss adjusters  opinion that the vegetation 
could have contributed  to the wall becoming  unstable.
Ref: DRN40050894Lastly I accept that just before the wall collapsed thered been a rapid  thawing  of heavy 
snow. But for the reasons explained in my provisional findings  I think  its likely the wall had 
been deteriorating over time. Ive seen nothing  that makes me think snow melt played such  a 
significant part in its collapse that I can reasonably say RSA shouldnt be able to rely on the 
policy exclusion for gradual deterioration to defeat  the claim. So unfortunately for Mr A Im 
not persuaded that RSA treated him unfairly in relying on the exclusion for gradual  
deterioration to decline his claim.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 December 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4005089