K821x#15Complaint
Mr B has complained that Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  mis-sold  him his 
lifetime pet insurance  policies and unfairly increased his premiums.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to know that in general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase as the pet gets 
older and the cost of medical treatment  rises.  Standard  pet insurance policies usually wont 
cover any medical conditions the pet had or had received treatment for when  the policy was 
taken out or renewed. So ongoing  or recurring  medical conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the ones Mr B took out, will continue to cover  any
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is
made. And there is no limit to how much  the premium could be.
Red Sands  should  have  made these longer-term  cost implications  clear  to Mr B and our 
investigator didnt  think  it had done this. Red Sands have  now offered to pay him £1,000 
compensation for the trouble and upset  hes been  caused as a result of this. 
Mr B hasnt accepted  the offer and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances  of Mr Bs 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
Its important to be clear that businesses  are entitled to decide how much to charge for the 
insurance cover they provide. I dont have the power  to tell a business what its insurance  
should cost. I would be, in effect,  determining or telling a business how it should operate  
and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mr Bs policies was too high, he should have 
been charged less for the policies or that he should  be charged less in the future.
While Mr Bs premiums  did see a significant increase, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest Red Sands has treated him differently to how it would  have treated any other 
policyholder in the same position.  So I cant tell Red Sands  to offer him a lower premium  and 
reinstate his policy going forwards.
I know this is disappointing for Mr B. I understand this situation  has caused  him stress
and upset. I know one of his dogs has sadly passed away and due to the age of his dog 
other dog, he says its difficult to find cover  elsewhere. Hes had to cancel his Red Sands 
policy as its become unaffordable for him.
But the thing Red Sands did wrong was not give Mr B the information he needed to 
understand he could end up in the position he now finds himself in. Where  I find something 
has gone wrong, Ill look at whats likely to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer 
has lost out. Its not my role to punish Red Sands. 
Ref: DRN49236672I know that Mr B says he was told by Red Sands  that his premium wouldnt increase as his 
pet got older or if he claimed on the policy. Red Sands cant  provide  copies  of the call 
recordings, which I dont  find unusual or surprising  considering the time that has passed.  I 
have no reason to think they are withholding  information. But it does mean I dont  know what  
was said or in what context.  Considering what Mr B says I think its possible he wasnt given 
enough information to make an informed  choice about the policy he was buying.  But I have 
to think about  what Mr B would have  done  if he had been given enough information to 
understand how the policy worked.  
I appreciate that Mr B says he wouldnt have taken the policies.  But its difficult  to know  what 
he would  have done at the time,  without  the benefit  of hindsight. Although Mr B has told us 
that his dogs only suffered from minor illnesses (apart from one instance) he wouldnt have 
known that at the time  which is the nature of insurance.
Mr B chose to take out pet insurance,  so he wanted  some type of cover for his dogs. And, as
he chose to take out a lifetime policy, he clearly had some  interest  in the greater level of
cover it provided. In fact Mr B upgraded his policies in 2017 to include a higher maximum 
benefit, so it seems he valued  having comprehensive cover for his dogs. If Mr B hadnt  taken  
a lifetime policy, he wouldve either had no cover  at all, and would have had to pay for all his 
pets treatment himself,  or a reduced  level of cover, where he would have found himself  in a 
situation where conditions claimed for wouldnt be covered past the first year. So I think its 
likely he would still have gone  ahead with the lifetime policies, even if hed known the 
premium could increase  significantly  in the future.
I recognise that its possible Mr B may have gone with a different provider offering a similar 
policies. But its impossible to know what policy Mr B would have ended up with  it might  
have been cheaper, but it might also have been  more expensive. I think its unlikely better  
information about the possible  future costs of the policies would have resulted in Mr B paying  
a significantly lower  amount, as providers that offer this type of insurance tend operate in a 
similar way - taking  the same sort of factors into account when the premiums  are calculated  
at renewal.
But I do think better information about the policies wouldve  meant that Mr B wasnt so 
surprised and upset  when the cost increased significantly  instead  this would have been 
something he was aware could happen.  
The compensation Red Sands has offered recognises that better  information  about the 
longer-term costs of the policy could have  avoided some of the trouble and upset Mr B has 
experienced. And I think it fairly  compensates Mr B.
My final decision
Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limited s offer to pay Mr B £1,000 compensation 
is fair and reasonable. So my decision is that Red Sands Insurance  Company (Europe) 
Limited should pay £1,000. I dont require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or
reject this decision before 2 January  2021.
Hannah Eykel
Ref: DRN49236673ombudsman
Ref: DRN4923667