K821x#15Complaint
Ms Q complains PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie (PayPal), SCA failed to refund payments she 
says she didnt make. She wants PayPal to refund the payments.
Background
Ms Q holds a PayPal account and in early April 2019 two payments of £100 each were  
made for gift vouchers,  which Ms Q says she didnt make.
Ms Q says she fell victim to a scam.  The scammers  rang her in the morning of the day in 
question and claimed to be from a well-known company. The genuine company is 
responsible for running the United  Kingdoms digital network, including its internet 
infrastructure.
 
Ms Q was told her internet connection was compromised by hackers and needed to be cut 
off for seven days.  She was told her online accounts  may have  been  compromised and they 
needed to act to protect her. She was persuaded to give the scammers remote access  to her 
computer on the premise the hackers access needed to be removed. The scammers said 
178 other  people were  affected.
Ms Q was asked to check her online accounts  werent being  accessed. So, she logged on to 
her PayPal account, as well as other accounts  she holds with other providers She then left 
the scammers to get on with preventing any further access  from  hackers. Instead the 
scammers accessed and began  debiting  her accounts.
PayPal refused to refund  the payments. It first found Ms Q likely authorised the payments. 
But it changed its position after Ms Q referred  her complaint to our service. PayPal 
concluded Ms Q had been  grossly negligent through allowing her computer to be accessed.
An investigator considered Ms Qs complaint  and upheld  it. They  found it was unfair  to find 
Ms Q had been grossly  negligent. PayPal disagreed and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman. So, the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  to uphold Ms Qs complaint. 
Ill explain  why.
Authorisation
For a payment to be authorised, Ms Q needed  to consent to it being  made.  She didnt 
consent to either payment, and PayPal  dont dispute  this. Instead, it says Ms Q breached 
PayPals user agreement  by allowing access to her computer and in so doing, her PayPal 
account  so she was grossly  negligent.
Gross Negligence and Intent
PayPals user agreement  states it wont refund a customer when:
Ref: DRN42375092We can show  that the payment was made because you did not keep your account safe 
either intentionally or with gross negligence (for instance, you very carelessly chose to share 
your PayPal ID and/or password/PIN with someone else).
PayPal says Ms Q mustve given away her security details or have  been  very careless. But 
Im not persuaded Ms D intentionally failed to keep her account safe. And Im not persuaded 
she was so careless that no reasonable person  wouldve  acted as she did. The threshold for 
gross negligence goes  beyond just carelessness, and is unlikely to be met when someone 
has fallen victim to a convincing scam.
Ms Q told our service what happened in the lead up to the transactions.  PayPal has been  
provided with Ms Qs recollection  of events, so its not necessary to detail them all here. But I 
find the following  relevant:
- During Ms Qs communication with the fraudsters, she was transferred to other 
people in different  departments, all of whom sounded professional and calm. They  
gave their names and employee identification numbers. And she was given the 
genuine phone number for the company. Ms Q found the experience  akin to what 
she would expect  when phoning a large company.
- Ms Q needed her internet connection for her job and was concerned by the prospect 
of redundancy  without it. The fraudsters  took her through a series of steps on her 
computer to discover evidence of hackers  accessing her internet connection without 
her permission.  Ms Q recalls at least 20 internet protocol (IP) address entries  were  
found and she was quite rightly concerned. So, I understand  why Ms Q believed she 
was speaking to genuine persons and her internet connection  and computer were 
compromised.
- Ms Q was told the IP addresses marked as active meant hackers were online and 
could access her internet and computer right now. They  said the ones not marked  
active meant the hackers were  offline, but they could access  her internet once they 
came online. Clearly this was a frightening prospect to hear for any reasonable 
person.
- The fraudster said they obtained  Ms Qs computer security license number from the 
records of the hackers who had been caught. She was told the steps  to verify her 
licence number,  and she could see it matched. So, again I see why this made  the 
scammers appear genuine.
- Ms Q was told by the scammers that they were under a legal duty to safeguard her, 
and they needed  to take immediate action. I understand  why Ms Q would believe this 
 the company in question has important responsibilities to customers  across the 
United Kingdom. If a security issue is identified, its probable  the company is under a 
duty to try and resolve it.
- Ms Q was asked to install software  giving the scammers remote  access to her 
computer so that all the hackers  could be blocked. Her previous  experience  of 
allowing remote access to her employer  had been positive, so she wasnt overly 
concerned by the request. Again, I understand why Ms Q agreed to this. IT 
specialists do sometimes need remote access to resolve  issues.
Ref: DRN42375093- Ms Q was told to check her accounts hadnt  been compromised by hackers, including 
PayPal.
PayPal says Ms Q mustve given away her account  security information to the scammer. But 
Ms Q logged on to her account  while on the phone to the scammers. She didnt need to give 
the scammers her PayPal  security information.  So, when she logged on to her PayPal 
account, this of course matched PayPals  records. I dont find this shows  Ms Q has been 
inaccurate in what she said.
I find Ms Q was not grossly  negligent  or intentionally  breached  her PayPal account  terms by 
failing to keep  her account  secure.  Instead,  I find her version of what  happened is plausible 
and persuasive. The loss she suffered was because she was the unwitting victim of a 
sophisticated scam, and not because she acted with gross negligence. 
I find PayPal cannot fairly  conclude  Ms Q failed with intent or was grossly negligent. So, 
under the terms  of PayPals user agreement PayPal  should refund the money  she lost.
Putting things  right
PayPal must:
- Refund the two £100 payments to Ms Q
- Add 8% simple interest on that sum from the time the payments were  made  to the 
time they are refunded. The interest is taxable income,  so PayPal can deduct income 
tax from the interest payment, but it should make it clear  to Ms Q if it does.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.  And I direct PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA to pay redress  to Ms Q 
according to the directions Ive given  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2021.
Liam King
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4237509