K821x#15complaint
Mr M says that Barclays Bank  UK PLC gave  him unsuitable advice to invest in two particular 
offshore funds. 
background
In 2009 Mr M was a client of Barclays Investment  Advisory Service. This service  involved 
the provision of advice  to Mr M on request, with reference to the objectives which  he 
specified at the time of requesting advice. The terms of the service also explained that 
Barclays may contact Mr M proactively with recommendations to invest, but that it would not 
carry out ongoing reviews of his investments. 
In order to subscribe  to this service Mr M completed a financial questionnaire  which  outlined  
his attitude to risk, his experience and his objectives  for investing.  Broadly, this questionnaire 
showed that Mr M:
Had experienced significant gains  on risky investments. 
Was much  more informed about  investing in general when  compared  to an average 
person and had more experience in investing  than the average person. 
Was prepared to take higher financial risks and was willing to choose  high-risk  
investments in order to achieve  high returns. 
Would probably still consider making  risky investments  even if he experienced a 
significant loss. 
Had a non-Barclays  portfolio which was risky. 
As a result of this questionnaire,  Barclays recommended investments to him of a varying 
nature. Of relevance to this complaint, in 2009  it recommended Mr M invest in the JP 
Morgan India Fund (the JP Morgan fund) and in 2010 it recommended  he invest in the 
Aberdeen Global  Equity India Fund (the Aberdeen Fund).  
At the time,  both these  funds had non-reporting status with HMRC. Essentially this meant 
that these offshore funds had no specific reporting obligations  to HMRC for UK tax purposes.  
The consequence for Mr M was that on disposal of his interest in these funds, any gains 
would be taxed by UK tax authorities as income.  
Between 2015 and 2017 Mr M sold both of his funds. However, he only became aware in 
April 2017 that the gains  he had made  on these funds would be taxed  as income. This is 
because he received an amended year end tax report in April 2017 which showed that the 
gain on the JP Morgan  India Fund  would  be subject to income tax. This meant  that he was 
able to mitigate his losses by transferring  the shares to his wife and so no tax was payable.  
However, in March 2017, before this report was received, Mr M also sold the Aberdeen 
Global Indian  Fund.  As a result  of him not being  aware of this issue  at that time,  Mr M was 
unable to take any steps to mitigate the losses he incurred. 
Mr M complained. One of our investigators  looked into the complaint and considered it 
should be upheld.  She thought Barclays ought  to have  been aware of how these funds 
would be taxed on surrender. She was persuaded that if Mr M had been made aware of this 
at the outset, he wouldve decided not to invest in them.  As a result, she considered these 
funds werent suitable for him and he ought to be compensated for the losses  he incurred. 
She recommended Barclays refund the tax he paid on disposal. 
Ref: DRN40771582Barclays didnt agree with the investigator. In short, it said:
There was no evidence that the client had said he wanted to avoid paying  income  
tax. It said that if this was his intended  goal he ought to have mentioned it at the time. 
There was no space  and no requirement for Barclays  to ask Mr M if he wanted  to 
avoid paying a specific type of tax. It said the reason for this was that if it provided  a 
recommendation to meet those needs and which didnt  utilise tax allowances or tax 
efficient structures, it would be providing  tax advice (i.e. stating the funds were  
suitable for his tax strategy)  which Barclays  said it cannot do. 
It provided a recommendation to meet Mr Ms identified need  for growth  and not 
income  and the taxation of the investment didnt affect the suitability of the 
recommendation. It said this was similar to a customer saying they wanted to invest  
for income  it wouldnt as a matter of course  ask whether that customer  wanted to 
avoid capital gains,  or restrict the choice of products to those that are not taxed as 
gains. It said it chooses products  which  best meet  identified needs. 
In any event, even  if Mr M had said that he didnt want  to incur  income tax, Barclays 
was under no obligation to meet this need.  In fact it said that it no longer agreed to 
clients who said that they didnt want to incur  capital gains tax because  this severely 
limited their ability  to invest on their behalf. It said that throughout the investment 
banking industry, typical  portfolios  will contain a variety of holdings which may attract 
various forms of tax, in particular  income  tax and capital  gains  tax. It said it would be 
highly unusual to find a portfolio which was designed to avoid a particular type of tax 
and also difficult to successfully implement. It said that such  an arrangement would 
be unusual and so very thoroughly  discussed during the advice and application 
process. Mr M didnt bring this up at the time.  
It said that at the time of the advice it provide tax information on the funds because  
he was given a fund factsheet.  This factsheet  told him which fund type  it was and 
specifically instructed him to seek advice concerning  any impact this investment may 
have on your personal tax position.  
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider.
I issued a provisional decision in February  2020. In it I said:
Whilst I appreciate why Barclays so strongly  disagrees with the investigator, Im not currently 
persuaded by any of the arguments it has made.  I dont think the investigator is suggesting 
that Barclays ought to have  given  Mr M tax advice. In fact I dont think this complaint has 
anything to do with Mr Ms tax strategy. 
Its a basic and fairly common principle of investing  whether that be in funds or directly in 
shares  that on disposal of an asset gains are taxed. And I dont agree with Barclays that 
taking this into account means  restricting  investment  choice or is tantamount to tax advice. 
For example, disposing of an asset might trigger a capital gains tax liability. This liability 
might be so large as to no longer  make it suitable for that asset  to be disposed  of  or it 
might make it more suitable  for the asset to be disposed gradually rather  than all at once. In 
other words, depending  on the overall  financial circumstances of an individual,  financial 
advisers will need to take into account  the tax implications  of doing one thing over another.  I 
dont agree that doing so means giving tax advice.  
But in any event, I consider the facts in Mr Ms case arent even that finely  balanced.  Non-
reporting funds  are, by their very nature, outside the mainstream of what ordinary investors 
Ref: DRN40771583ought to be considering. Funds that have reporting  status are required to notify HMRC  of 
income generated by the fund in such a way that UK investors are taxed on their share of 
this income  the specific arrangements  about  how that happens might be specific  to each 
fund. But the net effect  is that by taxing the income on the fund, on disposal investors  are 
only liable for capital gains tax. Non-reporting funds,  on the other hand, have no such  
obligations. Since December 2009  this means  that, on disposal, gains realised on non-
reporting funds  are taxed  at whatever  the investors  marginal rate of income tax is. 
This taxation regime is unusual  its not something  Mr M wouldve known about. But I 
consider it is something a financial  adviser  ought  to know  before recommending  a specific  
investment. This is because an investors ability to mitigate  the tax payable on the disposal 
of an asset will have  a huge impact on the return on that investment  and consequently, on 
the risk reward ratio the customer  is agreeing  to. Its much harder to find ways of mitigating  
income tax than it is to mitigate capital gains tax. But its also because  of the obvious 
difference between  the highest possible rate of capital gains tax which Mr M couldve 
incurred, 28%, and the 40% (or even more) which he wouldve incurred on disposal if he was 
a higher rate income tax payer.  Clearly  this is material information which would significantly 
affect Mr Ms decision to invest in these particular  funds. 
I dont agree that any of these considerations are tantamount  to tax advice. In fact Im 
satisfied that in the specific  circumstances of this case, these  considerations plainly fell 
within what COBS 9.2 required the adviser  to consider: namely Mr Ms financial situation.
In the circumstances, and having reviewed the information Mr M provided  at the time of 
completing the questionnaire, Im satisfied he was interested in slightly riskier investments. 
So Im satisfied funds  of this nature (i.e. overseas equity) were probably suitable  for him, and 
in line with the types of investment opportunities he was seeking to be informed about. 
But there wouldve  been similar funds  that had reporting status with HMRC that wouldnt 
have been taxed in the same way. And I consider its those  funds that Barclays  ought to 
have recommended he invest in. 
Alternatively, if Barclays had at the time considered that only these two specific  funds  met 
Mr Ms needs  for example because it considered  the benefits of investing (including the 
gross roll up of the tax) in such funds outweighed the likely higher tax on gains - then it ought  
to have alerted  him to the fact that these funds were treated differently by HMRC. Mr M 
would then have  been in a position to decide  for himself whether this was something he still 
wished to pursue.  
So Im currently persuaded that the advice  Barclays provided to Mr M was unsuitable. And 
so I think it ought to do more to put things right for him. 
Putting things  right
But in considering how to put things right for Mr M, its important that I take into account the 
position he wouldve  been in had Barclays provided him with suitable advice.
Im satisfied that Mr M would  have  invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what  
he would  have done, because any fund selection  now would be done with the benefit of 
hindsight which I dont  think  would  be fair. 
Ref: DRN40771584And Im not currently persuaded  it would be fair to ask Barclays to refund all the tax Mr M 
paid on disposal  because that would leave Mr M with gains  in funds he would never have 
invested in. 
Instead, as Ive said above, I consider  that Mr M wouldve invested in equivalent  funds but 
that had reporting status.  And I am satisfied that what  I have  set out below  is fair and 
reasonable given Mr M's circumstances and objectives when  he invested.  
Ultimately both these funds were, broadly speaking, Indian equity funds. And, from looking at 
the fund factsheets,  it seems to me both these funds used the same benchmark   the MSCI 
India NR USD. 
So in my view, fair compensation  would  involve Barclays  comparing what  the return on each 
investment wouldve been in line with the benchmark, with the return he made on each 
respective fund inclusive of the tax he paid.  
If, despite paying income tax on the gain,  Mr M experienced higher growth on his investment 
than he would have  had he invested in line with the benchmark, then I consider Mr M wasnt  
caused a financial  loss. 
But if Mr M wouldve experienced better growth  by investing in line with the benchmark than 
with the two individual funds, then I consider  Barclays ought  to pay that difference  to him. 
And it ought to add 8% to that from the date the assets were disposed until the settlement 
date. 
I also consider Mr M was caused  understandable trouble and upset  when he found out about 
this particular issue. And I consider £250 to be fair and reasonable compensation for that.  
Barclays didnt respond to my provisional decision.  Mr M did. He broadly agreed with my 
findings, but didnt think my award was fair. He said the benchmark Id selected wasnt  fair 
because it was not an accumulative  index   he said it was a reflection of the market  value of 
the individual shares comprising the index at any single point in time,  and therefore didnt 
allow for the loss of reinvestment of any capital  or income. He said that this could have a 
significant effect over the period 2009  to 2017. 
Mr M said that the index  would need  to be adjusted upwards to reflect his. Mr M proposed  an 
alternative, which was based on two similar funds  that had reporting status  although he 
explained that one of them distributed  dividends and one of them reinvested them.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As theres been no substantive reply from 
Barclays on the issue in dispute (the suitability of the funds themselves), I confirm  my 
provisional findings as final. 
Putting things  right
Ref: DRN40771585Ive considered Mr Ms comments about how to put things right.  Im satisfied that Mr M would 
have invested  differently.  Im not persuaded  its possible to say precisely  what  he would 
have done, because any fund selection now would be done with the benefit of hindsight  
which I dont think would  be fair. 
I acknowledge that the funds Mr M has found  in response to my provisional decision  are very 
similar. But as he has pointed out, a like for like comparison would be difficult to carry out 
over a such a long period, given that at least one of the funds Mr M has found distributed 
dividends rather than reinvested them which is what the funds he was actually invested in 
did. In addition, whilst it is entirely possible that at the time suitable advice may have  
included investing  in the same funds (but with reporting status), Im persuaded there  
wouldve been a significant range of different Indian  equity  funds which would also likely  
have been suitable too. I say this bearing in mind that the main  driver for the advice Barclays  
gave doesnt seem to be the fund managers themselves, but the exposure to an emerging 
market in order to diversify Mr Ms existing investments  at the time.  
So I remain  of the view that the fair and reasonable way to put things right for Mr M is a 
comparison with an index  tracking Indian equities over the relevant period. Im satisfied that 
this will give the fairest measure of what kind of return someone who was prepared  to invest  
in the Indian equity market might achieve. 
Mr M raised  concerns over the index  and the fact that it doesnt account for the reinvestment  
of dividends. But the index Ive identified  is a gross return one. In other words, it includes 
dividend reinvestment  as well as tracking  share prices. Ive specified this in the table below 
in order to ensure  Barclays use the correct benchmark when calculating whether any 
compensation is payable. 
Ive also considered Mr Ms comments about  the trouble and upset award. Its very clear  that 
Mr M has put a substantial amount of time and effort into supporting his complaint. But my 
award for trouble and upset isnt intended to compensate him for the time he took in putting 
his complaint together or making his case to this service. Its designed to compensate  him 
for the aggravation and inconvenience of discovering that the gains on his funds would be 
taxed differently to how they would ordinarily. Given the circumstances, including  the fact 
that he was able to mitigate the issue on at least one of the funds, Im satisfied £250 remains 
a fair and reasonable award. 
What should Barclays do? 
To compensate Mr M fairly, Barclays must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment. Barclays  
should also pay interest as set out below. 
Ref: DRN40771586Pay Mr M £250 for the trouble and upset caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
JP Morgan 
India Fund 
surrenderedMSCI India 
NR USD 
Gross Returndate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Aberdeen  
Global 
Equity India 
Fund 
surrenderedMSCI India 
NR USD 
Gross Returndate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
For each investment:
Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date. This 
should include the tax Mr M had to pay on surrender. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money since the 
end date. 
If, despite paying income tax on the gain,  Mr M experienced higher growth on his investment 
than he would have  had he invested in line with the benchmark, then I consider Mr M wasnt  
caused a financial  loss. 
But if Mr M wouldve experienced better growth  by investing in line with the benchmark than 
with the two individual funds, then I consider  Barclays ought  to pay that difference  to him. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should provide details of its calculation to Mr M in a clear,  simple 
format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Ref: DRN40771587Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4077158