K822xcomplaint
Mr S, on behalf of his wife Mrs S, complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc put a block  on 
withdrawals from her new savings account and then failed  to let her know about this or deal 
appropriately with her complaint.
.
background 
In October  2018 Mrs S opened a savings  account  with another  provider through the Bank of 
Ireland. Between then and 2 November she paid in £6,500 without difficulty. But when she 
went to make a withdrawal of £100 on 23 November she found she wasnt  able to do so. 
When she called in she was told a block had been put on her account  for security reasons.
Mrs S says she later found  out this had been  done the day after shed  opened the account 
and she feels the bank should have  contacted  her at the time to let her know  and to explain 
why it was done. And shes unhappy at the way its dealt with her complaint.
Bank of Ireland  says the restriction on withdrawals  was part of its security  measures but it 
agreed it should have let Mrs S know about  it sooner.  And it agreed the block  should have 
been removed  following  the call on 23 November and apologised that this wasnt  done.  It 
also apologised for not allocating her initial complaint as soon as it should  and the delay this 
had caused in closing the savings account.  It offered her £150 for her inconvenience.
Our investigator said the block was part of the banks security measures and for that reason 
we couldnt require Bank of Ireland to disclose why it had been done.  But she agreed it 
should have let her know  as soon as possible and hadnt done so in this case.  However she 
felt the block would have been  removed on 23 November  when Mrs S called in if the call 
hadnt dropped  out. Mrs S hadnt  called back so this hadnt happened but she didnt feel 
Bank of Ireland  was responsible for this.
Shed seen Mrs S was unhappy with the way the bank had dealt with her complaint. But she 
felt it had responded adequately. The bank hadnt received the first letter  but it had 
responded fully to the second  letter  of 5 December and accepted  thered  been  a number of 
mistakes in the way it had dealt with Mrs Ss account. It had apologised and offered Mrs S 
£150 for her inconvenience. 
The bank hadnt been able to trace  Mr Ss email of 20 December but by this point it was 
already dealing with Mrs Ss complaint  so she didnt feel it had had any impact  on its 
outcome. Taking  all this into account she considered Bank of Ireland had dealt with Mrs Ss 
complaint fairly and the offer of £150 was reasonable. For that reason she wouldnt be 
asking it to do anything  more.
Ref: DRN46004152Mr S replied  on behalf of his wife and asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. He said in summary:
they hadnt heard the call of 23 November but they felt that whatever the reason for 
the call ending, the bank had enough  information at this point  to have lifted  the block 
on the account. It hadnt done so.
The banks response to the complaint was sent on the last day of the eight week  
period so it arrived after this which was unreasonable.  Although the bank said it 
hadnt had the email  of 20 December this hadnt  bounced back  so it was probable  it 
had been received.
The compensation of £150 was inadequate for the time the block had been on the 
account and the way it had dealt with the complaint. Mrs S felt £450  would be 
reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I wont  be asking Bank of 
Ireland to do anything  more as Ill now explain.
All banks  are required to have in place robust security measures to protect their customers. 
This may mean on occasions that they limit the use of an account  while  additional checks  
are carried  out. Such steps are confidential so I cant ask Bank of Ireland  to say exactly  why 
it put a block on Mrs Ss account at this time but Ive seen nothing  to say it acted 
unreasonably or outside of the accounts terms and conditions.
The problem in this case was that it didnt  let Mrs S know what  it had done so she could take 
steps to put it right.  The banks acknowledged this was a mistake  and I agree  with that.
Ive listened to the call on 23 November and I can see that the bank was satisfied at this 
point that the block  should  be removed. For that reason  even though the call ended because  
the call handler  couldnt  get a response  from Mrs S, its clear  it could have taken  steps to 
resolve the issue at that point. Ive seen  the banks now acknowledged  this and apologised 
Its also apologised for not following Mrs Ss instructions to close this account more promptly 
and again Id agree this should  have been  done  sooner.
Its clear theres been a number of mistakes  in the handling of this account and I can 
understand why Mrs S felt frustrated at what  happened.  The question  now is whether the 
steps the bank  has already taken are sufficient to address  the impact  of these mistakes.
I havent seen  anything to show theres been  an actual financial loss in this case so the aim 
of any award is to compensate Mrs S for the trouble  and inconvenience  shes had as a result 
of whats happened. While theres  no precise  way of calculating  such  awards, Ive taken into 
account what went wrong in Mrs Ss case and its impact.
Although the block was in place from 17 October  to 9 January  Mrs S only became aware of it 
on 23 November so the impact is effectively  from that date until the block  was lifted  on 9 
January. Id agree that Bank of Ireland didnt resolve matters as quickly as it could have  but 
nevertheless taking everything  into account,  I consider that £150  is reasonable for what  
happened, the time it lasted and the impact it had. For that reason I cant  reasonably ask 
Ref: DRN46004153Bank of Ireland  to pay more than the £150  its already  offered. I note the offer of £150 
remains open and I simply  leave it to Mrs S to decide whether to accept this.
Finally Ive looked at the way the bank dealt with Mrs Ss complaint. I can understand Mrs S 
was keen to hear the outcome of her complaint but looking  at the dates, I can see the reply  
was sent out within  the eight weeks allowed so I cant agree  this was out of time.  And I 
consider that its reply  dealt appropriately with the issues  raised. 
I note Mrs S says the email of 20 December didnt bounce back but that not the same as 
saying it was received.  In this case Bank  of Ireland has said it cant  trace this email  so I cant  
reasonably say it failed  to reply. And as has been  said, by this point it was already 
investigating Mrs Ss complaint of 5 December so Im satisfied it didnt cause any additional  
delay or inconvenience.
I realise Mrs S may be disappointed by my decision but for the reasons given I wont be 
asking Bank  of Ireland to do anything more  to resolve this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4600415