K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that ICICI Bank UK Plc didnt tell him before reducing the interest  payable  
on his savings. 
background
Mr M has a savings  account with ICICI which was paying 1.4% interest  in 2014. Since that 
time, ICICI  has reduced the interest  rate payable three times and now pays  0.75%. ICICI 
says it emailed Mr M two months  before  the interest rate reduced each time. Mr M says that 
whilst hes received emails about  his statements  and privacy notices he has never received 
any emails concerning the interest rate payable on his account. 
Mr M complained and ICICI responded on 13 May 2019. ICICI provided  dates  for emails it 
sent Mr M and said it had acted in line with the account terms. But Mr M says hes checked  
all his emails and cant find any record of receiving the rate change  notices.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service  and an investigator looked  at it. She said ICICI 
had provided information  to show it had emailed Mr M before  reducing the interest rate and 
didnt uphold  his complaint. Mr M didnt accept so his complaints been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has recently sent us a screen print showing all the emails he says have been received  
from ICICI in recent years. None of the emails shown relate to rate changes. Mr M has told 
us he monitors both his inbox and spam folder so would have noticed any emails  from ICICI 
about rate changes. 
On the other hand, ICICI has provided a list of important emails  it says were sent to Mr Ms 
email address. ICICI has also confirmed its only emailed Mr M at that email  address (until it 
was amended in March  2019). The systems evidence Ive seen does show that ICICI 
emailed Mr M about interest  rate changes  in the same way as it emailed other information 
about his account. 
I appreciate Mr M says the emails about  interest  rate changes werent received but Im 
satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that ICICI sent them. I dont know why Mr M hasnt 
been able to locate them, but Im satisfied ICICI sent them before changing the interest rate, 
in line with the account terms.  
ICICI has also supplied systems information that shows Mr M accessed his online banking  
facility during the period  in question.  Whilst I can see Mr M hasnt logged in every  month  to 
check his statement he has logged in more  than once each year during the period hes 
complained about.  I think the level of interest  ICICI was paying would have been apparent to 
Mr M when  checking his account. 
Ref: DRN45774152Under the account terms, ICICI  can amend  the rate of interest it pays  on Mr Ms savings. I 
understand Mr M says he didnt receive the emails in question  but, as Ive said above, Im 
satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that ICICI did contact him in line with the account 
terms. ICICI also provided regular statements and Mr M accessed his account online during 
the period in question.  Taking everything Ive seen together,  I havent  found any evidence  of 
a mistake from ICICI or that its failed to contact  Mr M as required. 
As I havent  found  that ICICI made a mistake Im not telling it to do anything  else to resolve 
this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4577415