K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI) have  unfairly terminated his hire 
purchase agreement  without notice. He asks for the agreement to be reinstated.
background
On 23 December 2017, Mr L took out a hire purchase agreement  with RCI to acquire a car. 
He was required to make monthly payments  of £230.22 for 49 months. In November 2018, 
Mr L missed a payment.  He contacted  RCI to explain hed lost his job but had found another 
position and would pay the amount due. Mr L says he made all his monthly payments and a 
little extra  towards  the arrears but he then received a letter explaining RCI had cancelled his 
agreement. 
RCI says Mr L made all his contractual payments until November 2018 when it received 
notification the direct debit  had been  cancelled. It sent an arrears letter and Mr L contacted 
them to explain he had lost his job. RCI says it discussed a number of options available  to 
Mr L and he made a manual payment. But the account fell into arrears again  when the next 
monthly payment  was due. 
It issued an arrears letter on 6 December 2018  and attempted to call Mr L on 12 December 
2018. It was unable to reach Mr L and a further two arrears letters  were  issued on 20 
December 2018  and 5 January 2019.RCI says Mr L spoke to them on 16 January 2019 to 
explain the arrears  were due to a period of unemployment. It says Mr L agreed to make  two 
payments to bring  the account up to date and a promise to pay (PTP) was put in place.
RCI issued three further arrears letters on 19 January 2019,  3 February 2019 and marked  
the PTP as broken  on 8 February 2019. As there was no contact from Mr L, RCI issued a 
default notice  on 12 March 2019. A further  letter  explained Mr L would need to settle  the 
default balance  by 2 April or the account  would be terminated. RCI received  no further 
contact from Mr L and so as the default  balance hadnt been settled it terminated  the 
agreement on 4 April 2019  and requested the car be recovered. 
Mr L complained to RCI. It issued a final response on 23 May 2019. It said all the correct 
process and procedures had been carried out and so didnt uphold his complaint. An 
adjudicator from this service looked  into things for Mr L. He felt RCI had been very tolerant 
and been flexible in offering Mr L a promise to pay arrangement. He found the terms and 
conditions of the hire purchase to be very clear with regard to missing payments  and thought 
RCI had acted fairly and reasonably and didnt  ask them to do anything further.
Mr L disagreed. He maintains he only missed one payment  and also believes he has paid 
more than one third of the value of the car and so says RCI shouldnt  be allowed to 
repossess it. He asked  for an ombudsman review.
He says RCI have  unfairly  cancelled the agreement. He needs the car for work and to travel  
to hospital appointments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information from both 
parties afresh. Having  done so, Im in agreement with the adjudicator.  I know  this will 
disappoint Mr L. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN41784732Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Firstly, Ive looked closely at the hire purchase  agreement. When  Mr L signed the 
agreement, he agreed to the terms and conditions within  it. Under the customer written  
summary section it says:
4.RepossessionRCIFS can repossess the vehicle if I dont pay them on time.RCIFS can 
do this without a court order unless I have already paid a third or more of the total amount 
payable under this agreement.
And
5.Missed  or late payments: RCIFS will charge the default charges set out in section 3 of 
the SECCI, plus interest on any overdue  payment until I pay it, at the rate applicable in the 
credit agreement. Missing  payments may lead to an adverse  credit  rating,  legal proceedings, 
bankruptcy proceedings and an increase my overall  debt.
Im satisfied that the terms and conditions of the agreement give RCI to repossess the car if 
Mr L hasnt maintained his payments or made  them on time, subject to the appropriate 
notification.
Ive looked carefully  at the system notes provided  by RCI. I can see there have been 
numerous agreements  made by Mr L to bring his account up to date. This included  a PTP, 
under which no payments  were received from Mr L and so it was marked  as broken on 8 
February. From what Ive seen I find RCI have  been very flexible and offered Mr L several 
opportunities to bring his account  up to date, but unfortunately Mr L didnt maintain any of 
the arrangements he agreed to.
I appreciate Mr L says he didnt receive the default notice issued on 12 March 2019.  I have 
seen a copy of the notice.  It was correctly issued to the address  RCI had on file so although  
Mr L didnt receive it, Im satisfied it was issued. Im not able to hold RCI responsible for any 
postal errors  that may have occurred. 
Im satisfied from what Ive seen that the applicable  notices  were served as required by the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  and so under the agreement RCI have the right to terminate the 
agreement. Having looked at the account summary,  Mr L hasnt paid more  than one third of 
the total payable under the agreement and so from what Ive seen RCI are entitled  to 
repossess the car without the need for a court order.
I know Mr L will be disappointed by my decision but as he hasnt maintained  his payments in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions he agreed to Im not able to say RCI have acted 
unfairly or unreasonably and so I wont be asking  them to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN41784733Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4178473