K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that Pendragon Finance  and Insurance  Services Limited sold her a hire 
purchase agreement  which  was unsuitable  for her needs.
background
Miss W acquired  a new car on a hire purchase agreement  sold by Pendragon  in 
March 2014. She says she told Pendragon  the car was to be used for her business  but she 
was limited to a monthly budget of £250.  She says Pendragon told her it could meet her 
needs and she signed an agreement which had monthly payments of around  £240.
Miss W says that every three years she always part exchanges her car for a new one. And 
she made Pendragon aware of this too. But when she approached  Pendragon in early 2017  
to part exchange  her car, she was told there  was too much  negative equity (because of how 
many miles the car had travelled and the large  balloon payment on her finance). She says 
she was advised  to hand the car back to the finance  company instead.
It was at this time that Miss W says she became aware that there was an additional charge 
on her finance agreement if she was to hand the car back  (rather  than part exchange). The 
agreement limited her usage  to no more than 6,000  miles  per year. If she went over that 
amount, she would need to pay the finance  company 5 pence per additional  mile travelled.  
Miss W said that shed never  had these issues before when part exchanging cars.
Miss W says she wasnt told about  the mileage  limit when she took the finance out. Miss W 
had covered considerably more mileage than the allowance (her annual  average was in 
excess of 20,000 per year). She complained to Pendragon about the charge she would now 
have to pay to the finance  company. She said Pendragon were aware when it sold her the 
agreement that her annual mileage needs were around 20,000.
Pendragon didnt think it had mis-sold the agreement. It said Miss W didnt tell them about 
needing a particular mileage allowance  her only concern was the monthly  cost.  It said the 
mileage limit was clearly shown on the finance agreement she signed and it would have 
been explained to her.
my provisional findings
I sent Miss W and Pendragon my provisional  decision  on 12 June 2018. I explained why 
I thought the complaint should  be upheld. In summary this was because:
Miss Ws testimony has been consistent throughout the complaint about what 
happened at the point  of sale.  Her main  requirement was for the monthly payments 
to remain below  her budget  of £250.
Pendragon  says Miss W was only concerned about budget  and not her mileage 
allowance. I agreed but said this was because I didnt think  Miss W understood what 
the implications of having a mileage allowance might be  because  shed  never been 
charged one on any of her previous agreements. This is because Miss W has always 
part exchanged  her cars and the charge only applies if she hands the car back  to the 
finance company.  
Pendragon  said that Miss W signed the agreement so she must have read and 
accepted it. But I didnt think this absolved Pendragon of all responsibility for the sale.  
Ref: DRN42195322It still should have  highlighted significant  terms to her and the impact they might 
have. 
Pendragon  was reasonably aware of what Miss Ws requirements were  regarding her 
usage of the car. This is because  she was part-exchanging a car at the same time 
which shed had from new. This would have demonstrated what  her normal  use was 
and it was significantly greater than 6,000  miles per year. 
The agreement Pendragon sold her wasnt suitable for her needs  so it should have 
made this clear to her. But I wasnt persuaded it did make it clear.  This is because 
Miss W only found out about the charge when she was unable to part exchange the 
car (as shed always intended). The value of the car was significantly  affected 
because of the unsuitable terms on the agreement and this caused there to be a 
large amount  of negative equity. I didnt think Miss W would have taken out the 
agreement if this possibility had been properly  explained  to her at the point of sale.  
I thought Miss Ws actions supported what she says happened at the point of sale.  
As soon as she found out about the charge, she stopped driving the car to try and 
limit her losses.  She also sourced another car on a different finance agreement which 
was more suitable to her needs. I thought this demonstrated that this is what she 
would have done, had Pendragon properly explained how the agreement worked. 
As I thought Pendragon had sold Miss W an agreement which  wasnt suitable I explained 
what it now needed to do to put things  right. I said:
After handing  the car back at the end of her agreement, Miss W was charged 
£2,933.84 by the finance company. Pendragon  explained  that a suitable agreement 
would have cost Miss W £700 per month. As this was more than Miss W was ever 
willing to pay, it wasnt possible to put her back in the position  she should have been 
in. 
Miss W had benefit of driving  the car so its fair she pays for the use she had. But 
I was satisfied shed  stopped driving  the car in June  2017 and therefore Pendragon 
should refund all monthly payments  she made since June 2017 (as shed had no use 
of it from that point). As shed been unfairly withheld from spending that money, 
Pendragon should  also add 8% simple interest per year to each monthly payment 
refund from the date of each payment until the date of settlement.  
Miss W has shown  (by way of her new finance agreement) that she could have got 
an agreement in 2014 that met her expected needs at the time. However, she 
actually ended up covering even more  mileage than she expected to. Therefore, 
even if shed got a different agreement with a more suitable mileage allowance, it 
was likely she would have exceeded  that too (albeit far less significantly than she did 
with the agreement Pendragon sold her). For that reason I said Pendragon should 
pay a proportion (rather  than the full amount) of what the finance company charged  
Miss W. I calculated  a fair proportion for Pendragon to pay as £2,664.77.  
I said Pendragon  should also refund the cost Miss W paid in insuring the car since  
June 2017.
responses to provisional  findings
Miss W accepted my provisional decision,  but Pendragon didnt. In summary it said:
More importance  has been placed  on the consistency of Miss Ws recollection of 
events. Not enough weight has been  placed on the physical evidence   such  as the 
pre-contract information and finance  agreement, which is written in clear  user friendly 
language. 
Ref: DRN42195323In general a consumer  is bound by the agreement and if they have signed  it, its 
taken they have read and understood it. The onus was on Miss W to ensure she was 
happy with the agreement. 
Miss W was part exchanging a van for a car which is unusual. This suggests  Miss W 
didnt make it clear she was using the car for business purposes. 
All the finance  options that were explored for Miss W had a 6,000 mile limit, so this 
also suggests Miss W had no intention of looking for a higher mileage contract. 
Theres not enough evidence to suggest Pendragon didnt discuss  the various 
mileage allowances  that were available. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
outcome set out in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons. But Ill address the 
additional points  raised by Pendragon. 
I agree  that the general starting position  is to assume Miss W had read and understood the 
finance agreement  she signed. But Miss W has accepted she didnt read the agreement  and 
thought what the salesperson offered her was suitable  to her needs. That doesnt absolve  
her of all responsibility, but neither does her signing the agreement absolve  Pendragon of all 
responsibility. 
The evidence and circumstances in this complaint lead me to think  the mileage limitation 
wasnt made clear to Miss W. Pendragon appears  to have misunderstood, my decision 
doesnt concern  whether or not Miss W is bound  by the terms of the agreement  - that is an 
issue between her and the finance company. Instead, Ive considered  whether  Pendragon 
sold an agreement to Miss W that was suitable  to her specific needs, and if it didnt, whether 
it made this clear to her. 
The issue  here is that due to her usage  of the car the agreement  wasnt  appropriate for her 
needs. But Pendragon  as the expert  should have known that from the information 
already available to it. And as it was on notice  that 6,000 miles was unlikely to be sufficient 
for her needs (based  on the usage  of the car she was trading in), it didnt do enough to 
highlight this to her. 
Pendragon says that her trading in a van for a car was unusual. It believes this shows 
Miss W didnt make  it clear she intended  to use the car for business  purposes.  But this 
statement suggests Pendragon didnt actually ask about her mileage requirements, it just 
assumed Miss W would tell them. As Pendragon thinks this was an unusual  trade in, 
I wouldve  expected  it to ask more questions  about  her usage of the car. Given  what  her 
previous usage  was and what she did actually use, I find it very unlikely she would have said 
6,000 miles, had this question been  put to her. 
The further evidence  provided by Pendragon I think supports the fact that no other mileage 
options were discussed  with Miss W. Miss W says that she was only given a quote after she 
said she couldnt afford to spend  more than £250 per month. The internal system generated 
quotes Pendragon have  now provided appear  to support that. They were all for 6,000 miles 
and all broadly  similar. Each quote has been changed slightly until the monthly payments 
amount to less than £250. This appears  to show that the salesperson  was trying to engineer 
the cheapest possible  quote  for Miss W. 
Ref: DRN42195324So for all these reasons,  I think  Pendragon sold Miss W an agreement that was unsuitable to 
her individual needs and it didnt sufficiently  bring  this to her attention. As a result,  shes  now 
incurred costs from the finance  provider  which she might  not have otherwise incurred. And 
I think its fair Pendragon  pays  towards those costs. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Pendragon Finance and 
Insurance Services Limited  to:
Pay £2,664.77  towards the costs incurred by Miss W from the finance provider. 
Because Pendragon dont administer the finance  agreement, it should ensure it pays 
this promptly in order to avoid any additional  penalties to Miss W. If any late payment 
interest or charges have been added,  Pendragon should cover  those  costs  too. 
Refund all the monthly  repayments Miss W has made towards  the finance agreement  
since she stopped  using the car in June 2017. And pay 8% simple interest per year 
on these refunds from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the costs  Miss W has had to pay for insuring the car since June  2017   on 
receipt of evidence of those costs.
If Pendragon thinks it should deduct tax from the interest part of my award  it should  send 
Miss W a tax deduction certificate,  so she can reclaim it, assuming she is entitled to.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019. 
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4219532