K821x#15complaint
Mr D, represented by a claims management company (CMC),  complains that CashEuroNet 
UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid)  didnt carry out sufficient affordability assessments before  
lending to him.
background
Based on the information provided, QuickQuid  provided Mr D with four loans between  
January and April 2018,  two of which he topped  up.
Loan Date Amount Top up Repaid 
1 10 Jan 2018 £200 1 Feb 2018
2 17 Feb 2018 £200 £100 (1 Mar 2018) 5 Mar 2018
3 3 Apr 2018 £500 5 Apr 2018
4 11 Apr 2018 £350 £100 (14 Apr 2018)
£250 (16 Apr 2018)
£500 (21 Apr 2018)5 Jul 2018
The CMC says that QuickQuid failed to recognise that Mr D had become dependent  on short 
term borrowing and was stuck in a cycle of debt where he was borrowing to repay previous 
loans. It says the loans  didnt  help Mr D with his long term financial needs and instead made 
it more difficult for him to achieve a long term solution to his financial situation.
QuickQuid says that it carried out appropriate affordability assessments before lending  to 
Mr D including validating his income  and expenses. It says its assessment  focusses on 
validating monthly  credit commitments to ensure that any short term loan commitments are 
included. 
QuickQuid notes that some of Mr Ds final repayments were more than his disposable  
income but that Mr D was told about this and he confirmed  he was bale to afford  the 
repayments. It says Mr D repaid all of his loans early and that had he been  in financial 
difficulty at the time he wouldnt  have  been  able to do this.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that she had seen  enough evidence to say that loans one and 
two (including the top up loan)  shouldnt  have been provided. However she thought that loan 
three and subsequent loans shouldnt have been provided. She recommended  that the 
interest and charges paid on the loans  from 3 April 2018 onwards  be refunded along with 
interest and that Mr Ds credit file be amended.
QuickQuid didnt accept  our adjudicators view. It reiterated that it carried out sufficient 
affordability checks and noted that Mr D repaid  loan three within  two days. 
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ref: DRN44357772Mr D could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that the first two loans 
(including the top up of loan two) shouldnt have been provided. Having considered the 
repayment amounts  under these loans  compared  to Mr Ds income and noting these were  
the first loans in the lending chain, I agree that there  isnt enough to say these loans 
shouldnt have been provided.
Loan three was for a much  larger amount,  £500 with a repayment amount of £624. Before 
this loan was provided I think  that further checks should have been carried out to ensure that 
the loan was sustainably affordable. Had these taken place, I think QuickQuid would  have 
realised that Mr D was making  use of a number of other short term loan providers. This 
shows he was experiencing difficulty managing his money. Because of this I do not think that 
loan three  was sustainable.
Mr Ds situation didnt  change before  loan four was provided and given the short  period 
between when the loan was provided  and subsequent top ups given I think  this further  
Ref: DRN44357773supports that Mr D was struggling to manage  his money and that this loan wasnt  
sustainable.
Overall, I think that Mr D lost out because  QuickQuid  provided loans three  and four (plus top 
ups). These loans  had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging  Mr D's indebtedness  by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short term use over an extended  period  of time. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  three and four. 
CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid)
refund  all interest and charges that Mr D paid on the loans from 3 April 2018 until 5 
July 2018;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loans 3 onwards from Mr Ds credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.  
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4435777