K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that BMW  Financial  Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) has unfairly charged 
him for excess mileage  under a hire purchase agreement.
background
In 2015, Mr C acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement from BMWFS. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £15,147.55. Mr C was required to make an advance 
payment of £2,500, 48 monthly  payments of £156.71 and there was a final optional  payment 
of £5,125.47 if he wished to buy the car at the end of the agreement.  
The agreement set out that Mr C had the right to terminate  the agreement  at any time before 
the final payment  was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the car 
and at least half of the total repayable under  the agreement. The agreement set out this was 
£7,573.78.
In 2018, Mr C chose  to exercise his right to terminate the agreement early.  
After Mr C handed the car back,  BMWFS charged  him a further £586.83  as he had 
exceeded the mileage allowance on the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr C had an annual  mileage allowance  of 12,000 and a total 
mileage allowance  of 54,659 (49,000  miles plus delivery mileage of 5,659). It said that if he 
exceeded this allowance  BMWFS could charge him 3.8 pence for every mile that he 
exceeded the allowance by. It said that in the event he terminated the agreement early,  the 
mileage allowance  would be pro-rated  for the time the car was on hire. 
Mr C didnt think this charge was enforceable.
Amongst other things Mr C said:
He voluntary terminated  the agreement on the understanding no further charges 
would be payable   including  for excess mileage.
BMWFS arguments  for charging  excess mileage havent been tested in court.
Despite the miles  he had added to the car, it was returned in good condition.
As he had paid more  than half of the total repayable under the agreement  the excess 
mileage charge should be adjusted accordingly.
The annual mileage  limit of 12,000 was set by the dealership (to bring his monthly 
repayments down) and he never ticked to say that he agreed to this limit.
His credit  file has been affected  by his decision  at least  initially   to not pay the 
excess mileage charge of £586.83.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that BMWFS  
had calculated the excess mileage charge correctly in line with the terms of the hire 
purchase agreement  and the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA). She also found that the 
terms of the agreement were clear  around  the possibility of an excess mileage charge being  
payable on voluntary termination.
Ref: DRN48002222In summary,  she said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early  and S100  sets out what liabilities a consumer  has on termination.  
In brief, on termination  a consumer  is liable to pay at least half of the total  price of 
the agreement.  Total  price  is defined by S189 of the CCA as the total sum payable  
under the hire purchase  agreement. It doesnt  include charges for items that are 
payable as compensation for breach of an agreement. This means  that any charges 
for breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability  for termination.
S99 sets out that any liabilities  that the consumer accrued prior to termination arent 
to be affected by the termination. 
The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage  charges  will accrue 
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mr Cs agreement was clear that the 
charge accrued before  termination  and was therefore not affected by the termination. 
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance  is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage  charges must therefore be included in 
the total price  of the agreement. 
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted  towards the 
total price of the agreement. Mr Cs accrued liability under S100 therefore included  
paying an additional amount of £586.83.
The credit  agreement  set out clearly  the terms surrounding when excess  mileage 
would be charged,  when  it would  accrue  and how much it would cost. 
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement  if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded. 
The investigator concluded that when  considering all the terms of the agreement as a 
whole, she was satisfied  it was made  clear and not misleading  about when an excess  
mileage charge could  be applied  and for how much. She was therefore satisfied it 
was fair and reasonable for BMWFS to charge the additional  amount. 
Mr C disagreed, but the investigator wasnt persuaded  to change her mind. Therefore, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed  to take it on board and think  about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Secondly, I would add that where  the information  Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, as some  of its here, Ive to base my decision  on the balance of probabilities.
In paying a deposit and his monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement  
allowed Mr C use of the car for the duration  of the agreement. He also had the option to 
purchase the car outright  at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of 
£5,125.47. While Mr C was entitled  to use the car, that use was subject to certain conditions, 
such as maintaining and taking care of the car and only driving a maximum mileage each 
year and overall throughout the lifetime of the agreement. The agreement  set out what would 
happen should Mr C not meet those requirements.
Ref: DRN48002223Mr C exercised his right to voluntarily  terminate the agreement. In some  instances, voluntary 
termination allows the hirer to simply hand  back the car without having to pay anything more.  
But this is dependent on, amongst other  things, how much  has been paid to the agreement, 
whether there are arrears to be paid,  the condition of the car and whether any excess 
mileage or other charges  are due. 
In this case Mr C accepts  that he was required to pay £7,573.78 to voluntary terminate the 
agreement. But he disputes the excess mileage charge of £586.83  that has been added on 
top of this figure. 
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have  to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The termination your rights section of 
Mr Cs hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on termination  and in 
his case, that was £7,573.78. Various sections of the agreement  Mr C had with BMWFS  also 
referred to the liability on early termination,  including where excess  mileage, damage 
charges or other charges may increase  the final liability.
Whether or not its fair for a lender to apply  the charge will be unique to every case, as it will 
depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered  into. In other  words,  what  Ive 
to decide is, has the agreement  been  constructed in a way as to allow  the charging for 
excess mileage without  contravening what  is set out in the CCA regarding  voluntary 
termination? In Mr Cs specific case,  I think it has. Ill explain why. 
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities  which accrue  prior to 
termination arent affected by the termination.  What this means is that Mr C is liable to pay 
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement,  and that these 
charges are in addition  to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Mr Cs hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess mileage 
charges for depreciation. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what  charges will 
apply if that mileage is exceeded.  It says that if the agreement is terminated  early the 
mileage allowance  will be pro-rated to the reduced period of hire and that your  obligation to 
pay any excess mileage charges will accrue immediately prior to termination . Im satisfied 
Mr Cs agreement is worded clearly in setting  out when excess  mileage charges accrue. 
The agreement also has a sectioned headed  Termination: your rights. This section contains  
specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in summary  
sets out that so long as Mr C has paid at least half the total amount payable  under the 
agreement, he will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about  whether this conflicts  with 
the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those  that explain charges for exceeding  
the mileage might apply.  
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think  the agreement  is 
either unclear or misleading concerning  the charges for excess  mileage. I think  it explains 
that the excess mileage  charge can be applied in addition to other  charges for voluntary  
termination. I dont  therefore consider that the way this specific  agreement  has been 
constructed has prejudiced Mr C. 
Ref: DRN48002224Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows  that Mr C is liable to pay the 
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent  with what  is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA.  
Mr C says he voluntarily terminated the agreement on the understanding  that no further 
charges would be payable  including  for excess mileage.  But Ive seen nothing  that makes  
me think that this was the grounds on which BMWFS accepted  Mr Cs voluntary termination. 
I would also add that BMWFS letter dated  3 August 2018 states:
[The termination  figure  of £0.00] has been  calculated assuming any repayment which we 
are currently  processing will still be paid (in addition to the Termination Payment Figure).
We will inform  you of any other charges  such as excess  mileage and vehicle damage  costs 
which may also be payable in accordance with your agreement.
And:
Your maximum total mileage is stated on your agreement. This will be pro-rated to the date 
we accept your request  to voluntarily terminate the agreement. If you have exceeded  your 
pro-rated mileage, we will send you an invoice for excess mileage charge due.
So, Im not persuaded that the understanding on which Mr C voluntary terminated his 
agreement prevented BMWFS from charging the excess mileage that it did.
Ive noted what  Mr C has said about the lack of any legal precedent being set. But this 
doesnt prevent  our service from considering a complaint about the same. It just means we 
dont have any precedent to draw upon when  deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of a particular complaint.
I accept that the car may have been returned in good condition, and this might  be the reason 
Mr C wasnt charged anything  for damages beyond what might be deemed to be normal 
wear and tear. But regardless  of the condition of the car on its return,  Im satisfied, for the 
reasons already given, that BMWFS was entitled to charge  for the excess mileage that it did. 
It should also be remembered  that miles in excess of those agreed does have a bearing on a 
cars value  even where the car might otherwise be deemed to be in a good  condition.
I appreciate that Mr C had, at the time of voluntary terminating, paid more than half of the 
total repayable  under  the agreement. But this doesnt place BMWFS  under  any obligation 
(either under  the terms of the agreement or anything else)  to reduce the excess  mileage 
charge it might wish to seek the payment of. It should also be remembered that the option  of 
voluntary terminating  earlier was always open to Mr C and such an option might  not have 
afforded Mr C any financial benefit or advantage.
Mr C says the annual  mileage limit of 12,000  was set by the dealership  (to bring his monthly  
repayments down) and he never ticked to say that he agreed to this limit.
BMWFS has provided our service with a document  titled Customer Acknowledgement in 
which I can see a tick has been  placed in a box next to the statement:
Please confirm your estimated mileage is correct on the agreement. Estimating too low may 
result in an excess mileage charge being payable when the agreement ends.
Ref: DRN48002225I can also see that this document appears  to have been signed and dated by Mr C.
But even if I was to accept that Mr C didnt tick this box, Im satisfied that based on what  
Mr C himself has said he was aware  that an annual mileage limit of 12,000 had been set and 
the consequences of this limit being exceeded.
Mr C says that BMWFS  was, or is, unfairly  reporting the status  of his agreement on his credit  
file. However, as Mr C hasnt paid, or didnt pay in good time, all the sums which fell due 
when he terminated  the agreement early,  I cant reasonably say that what  BMWFS  was or is 
reporting is either inaccurate, unfair or unreasonable. 
Overall, Im not persuaded BMWFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr C. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2021.
Peter Cook
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4800222