K820x#14complaint
Ms G has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as C&G) mis-sold her a mortgage 
payment protection insurance policy.
background
Ms G took out her mortgage in 1993  during a meeting in a branch of Lloyds. Although Lloyds 
has evidence that Ms G did have PPI at the time that the mortgage ended, its records dont 
show when or how the policy was purchased. Because of this, and in order  to treat her fairly, 
it has worked on the assumption  that Ms G arranged it at the same time as her mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms G disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
There is no paperwork available from the time of the mortgage sale in 1993. This isnt 
surprising as Lloyds  is not required to keep  documents for that long,  and especially as the 
mortgage account was closed in 2004.  However this does  make  it more difficult to decide the 
complaint. Therefore, when reaching  my decision I have looked at the evidence  that we do 
have, and what I consider  is most likely to have happened,  on a balance  of probability.
Ms G says she told Lloyds during the mortgage meeting that she didnt want PPI. From what 
we know of Lloyds  branch  sales  of PPI at that time, the policy would have been presented 
as optional and would  not have been  set up without  the consent of the applicant.  Also,  in this 
case, its possible that the PPI wasnt set up at this time and that Ms G decided  to buy it on 
some later occasion.
Ms G says she didnt know she had the PPI and if shed known she would have made  a 
claim in 1996 when she was made redundant. But Ms G has told us that she was only 
unemployed for a month. The policy didnt  cover periods of unemployment lasting less than 
60 days, so Ms G wouldnt have been  able to make  a successful  claim at that time and 
possibly that is the reason why she did not do so. Another possibility is that Ms G didnt have 
the policy at that time and actually bought it at some  later date.
Ive thought very carefully about what Ms G has said. But overall Im unable to conclude  that 
she wasnt given a choice  about  having  the policy. On balance  I think that she probable 
decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt have to. The sale happened a long time ago and 
so it wouldnt be at all surprising if Ms Gs recollection of events has faded somewhat.
As Ive said,  Lloyds doesnt know how the policy was sold to Ms G. Therefore, to treat her 
fairly, it has assumed  that it was an advised  sale. This holds it to a higher standard than if it 
was a non-advised sale because, in advising Ms G to buy the policy,  it needed to ensure that 
Ref: DRN40752712it met her needs. And from what I know of Ms Gs circumstances at the time, the policy  was 
suitable for her.
Ms G cant remember if she would  have received sick pay from her employer. However, the 
policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Ms G 
would have received full pay for. Ms G has told us she had some savings. But having  the 
policy would have meant that she could  have retained these or used them to cover other 
outgoings at what  would  have been  a difficult time.  A mortgage is a significant financial 
commitment, and the consequences of defaulting  on a mortgage can be serious. So it 
wouldnt be surprising if Ms G has an interest in protecting her mortgage repayments.
Its possible that Lloyds  didnt provide as much information about the policy  as it should  
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Ms G wasnt  affected by any of 
those things. As I consider that she had an interest  in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information  would have caused  her to change her mind. So she is no worse 
off as a result of anything  Lloyds may have  done  wrong, so theres nothing  that Lloyds needs 
to do to put things  right.  It follows that I do not uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Ms Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4075271