K821x#15complaint
Mr I complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  wont reimburse him for the additional tax hes 
paid as a result of his company being charged  the wrong premium for its  group private 
medical insurance policy.
background
Mr I is the director  of a company. He and his wife are members of its group private  medical 
insurance policy. Mr I was the group policy administrator, and the company address was his 
home address. The premiums were paid by the company on its employees behalf.
In 2011, Mr I and his wife moved home.  They didnt  tell Aviva that theyd moved, though  if 
they had, then the premium attributable to their cover,  and hence  the companys overall 
premium, would have  reduced.  Thats because the cost of the cover included a geographical 
element, and the area to which theyd  moved had a lower cost than their previous location.   
In December 2012, Aviva wrote to Mr I and his wife separately about their cover.  Each letter  
was returned to Aviva as gone away (in other  words, they were  no longer living at that 
address). 
In 2013, Aviva updated Mr Is wifes address. 
In 2014, Aviva sent out a letter to the company. As this was addressed to Mr I at his old 
address in his capacity  as policy administrator, it was also returned to Aviva  as gone away.  
Aviva contacted the broker who gave it the new company address (which was also Mr Is 
new home address). 
In 2018, the broker noticed some of the documents had Mr Is old address and notified Aviva  
of his correct address.  This resulted in a reduction  to the group scheme  premium.  Mr I, on 
behalf of the company, asked Aviva  to refund the premiums that had been overpaid, but 
Aviva refused. It said it had been Mr Is responsibility to tell it hed moved,  and he hadnt 
done so. Unhappy with this, Mr I brought a complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. She thought  Aviva  hadnt been 
exposed to the level of risk associated with the higher cost location that the premiums had 
been based upon, and it had therefore benefited  unfairly as a result. She thought on a fair 
and reasonable basis,  Aviva  ought to refund the overpaid premiums  to the company since 
2011 (this is being dealt with under a separate complaint), and also reimburse Mr I for the 
additional tax hed had to pay as a result of the higher premium being  charged.  
I issued a provisional decision on 22 July 2019. My provisional findings  were:
As I understand it, Mr Is wifes address  was updated in 2013  because it was located  by a 
system Aviva used at the time to find addresses for people that had gone away.
Although Aviva updated Mr Is wifes address at this time,  it didnt update Mr Is address. 
Aviva explains  that Mr I and his wife are listed as separate members on the policy, which is 
why Mr Is address wasnt automatically updated  at the same time as his wifes. I assume it 
couldnt find Mr Is address on the system  it used. 
Ref: DRN46747552Aviva became aware in 2014 that the company  address  had changed. As there was a broker 
associated with the policy, Aviva asked it for the correct  company address. Given  that it still 
didnt have Mr Is address, I think it could have asked  the broker  for this at the same time. Its 
also the case that it could have asked  for this when it first became aware in 2012 that Mr I 
had changed address,  particularly since it was in regular contact with the broker.  
Having said that, I dont think Aviva was required  to actively seek to establish Mr Is new 
address. It was Mr I/the brokers  responsibility  to keep Aviva updated of any change of 
address. 
Its unfortunate that Mr Is address wasnt updated  for so long. I see that Aviva  wrote to him 
at his new address  after 2014, but in his capacity as administrator. I can appreciate how that 
would have been confusing, and may have  led him to think Aviva  had his correct address. 
But it was still his responsibility to tell Aviva  of his change of address at the time he moved. 
Nevertheless, the cost of the policy contains a geographical element, and Mr I moved to a 
lower risk area in 2011. That means Aviva has received a higher premium from the company 
than it should  have done. Our normal approach is that it is unfair for an insurer to retain  the 
full premium when it hasnt been running the full risk associated with that premium.  Ive 
therefore dealt  with this in a separate complaint brought  by the company.
However, Mr I says hes also been financially disadvantaged as a result  of this, because the 
higher premium charged has resulted  in him paying higher tax than he should have done. 
Thats because he receives the cover as a taxed benefit.
If I had found that Aviva  were at fault for failing  to update Mr Is address, then I would agree 
that any additional losses that were  incurred as a result of the higher premium being charged  
(such as higher  tax paid by Mr I ) should be covered by Aviva. However,  as Ive explained 
above, I think it was Mr I/the brokers responsibility to keep  Aviva  updated of any change  of 
address. That being  the case,  I dont  think  Aviva should be responsible  for any additional 
losses that Mr I may have suffered as a result of the higher premium  being charged to the 
company.
I invited both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make, however 
neither party  had anything further  to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  However, since  neither party had any 
further comments, I remain of the opinion expressed  in my provisional decision and for the 
same reasons.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN46747553Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4674755