K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited wont cover his dogs medical  
condition for more than one year under his pet insurance  policy.
background
When Mr G bought pet insurance  for his dog he told the business that sold the policy (which 
Ill refer to as S) his dog had a fit. Mr G says S told him the policy would cover fits/seizures. 
However, when Mr G made a claim for seizures the policy  insurer, Hiscox, said the policy  
didnt cover pre-existing conditions.
Hiscox made  enquires and understood S had wrongly told Mr G his dogs seizures were 
covered. As a gesture  of goodwill Hiscox  offered to cover any claim for seizures  for the 
current policy term (5 July 2018 to 5 July 2019). But if Mr G continued the policy  after that 
date seizures wouldnt  be covered  as it was a pre-existing  condition  when the policy first 
started.
Mr G complained to us. He said hed taken out a lifetime policy. S told him the policy would 
cover the seizures  and he wants cover for his dog's lifetime.
Hiscox said Mr G didnt  have a lifetime policy. But if the policy  was renewed  each year the 
policy would give continuous  vet fees cover  for ongoing or long-term conditions so long as 
they werent pre-existing conditions. It thought its cover for one year offer was fair. 
Our investigator thought Hiscoxs offer was fair.
Mr G disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans  decision. He said we haven't  considered the vet 
evidence that his dog didnt have  a pre-existing condition when he bought the policy.  Also he 
couldnt now get cover for his dog that included the pre-existing condition.
Our investigator told Mr G we hadnt seen evidence from the vet that his dogs seizures  
werent a pre-existing  condition. At the time of this decision  weve received no such 
evidence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
S, who gave Mr G wrong information about  the policy cover,  is a different business to 
Hiscox. Hiscox is the insurer and responsible  for covering claims. 
I dont uphold this complaint against Hiscox. 
I need to decide if Hiscox acted fairly and reasonably in saying it wouldnt cover the dogs 
seizures beyond  the current  policy year, and I think it did. Ill explain why.
The policy is clear that Hiscox wont pay for a claim as a result of pre-existing conditions.  
The policy definition of pre-existing conditions includes  an illness  that:
Ref: DRN40733202a. Happened or first showed clinical signs, 
b. Has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an  illness or clinical sign your pet had, 
c. Is caused by, relates to, or results  from, an ... illness or clinical  sign your pet had, 
before the start date of your pets first period of insurance.
The vet notes show Mr Gs dog had a fit 29/30  June  2018, before  the policy was taken out. 
She had more seizures in July 2018  after the policy was taken out. 
So the evidence  from the vet notes  is that Mr G's dog seizures were a pre-existing condition. 
Ive not seen any vet evidence  that says she didnt have a pre-existing condition.
That means Hiscox could  have said it wouldnt  pay any claims for the dogs seizures.  As S 
wrongly told Mr G the seizures  were  covered, for goodwill Hiscox offered to cover the 
condition for the current policy year.
Hiscoxs offer is fair and reasonable and beyond what  it needed  to do to under the policy. It 
doesnt need to offer Mr G a next policy term with cover for his dogs seizures.
Mr G may want to make a separate complaint against S, the business that gave him the 
wrong information about the policy cover. 
Its fair for me to tell Mr G that when considering a mis-sale complaint we look at whether he 
would have been in the same position about getting  cover for his dogs pre-existing condition  
even if S had given  him correct information.  It might well be that he would have had difficulty 
in finding any insurer who would have been  willing to cover  her seizures. But Ill leave it for 
Mr G to decide if he wants to make a separate complaint about the sale of the policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4073320