K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS) mis-sold  him a credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr B opened  the credit  card account and bought  the PPI in 1998. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
RBS no longer has any of the documentation  available from the sale, which is not surprising 
given how long ago it took place. It also cant confirm how the policy was sold to Mr B, 
although Mr B thinks he took it out over the phone.  This does make the case  more  difficult  to 
decide. In reaching  my decision  I have looked at the evidence that we do have, as well as 
considering what  is most  likely to have  happened.
Mr B says that he wasnt given a choice about  having the PPI with the credit card account.  
From what  we know of RBSs sales process at that time,  the PPI would  have been  
presented as optional. Ive thought  about  what Mr B has said.  But the sale was a long time 
ago and so I have considered how this may have affected Mr Bs recollection of events. 
Overall I think  that Mr B probably decided to buy the policy, knowing that he didnt have to, 
even if he no longer remembers doing so.
RBS didnt recommend  the policy to Mr B, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his needs. 
But it did need to provide  Mr B with enough  information for him to make an informed  decision  
about whether  or not the policy was right for him.
Mr Bs employer  would  have given him six months  full pay if hed been off work sick.. But 
the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially  for longer than Mr B would 
have received full pay for. Mr B had some savings, but having the policy  would have meant 
that he could retain  these  or used them to cover other outgoings at what  would have been a 
difficult time.  So I think that Mr B had a need for the policy  and could have benefitted from it.
Its possible that RBS didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about  the things that it didnt cover. But Mr B wasnt  affected by any of those 
things. As I think that he had an interest in the policy and decided  to buy it, I dont think that 
further information would have caused him to change his mind.  
This means  that RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. But RBS 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Ref: DRN48812992When the policy was sold,  RBS expected to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr B about that. 
Because RBS didnt  tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr B any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, or is at least in the process  of doing so, so I dont award  any further 
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4881299