K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that BUPA  Insurance  Limited  didnt pay their claim for certain 
expenses under their travel insurance.
Mr and Mrs J are representing  their daughter, Miss J, who is also covered under this policy.
background
Whilst on holiday abroad, Mrs Js handbag  was stolen. Amongst other things, this contained 
her and her husbands passport as well as cash. As they didnt have passports they were 
unable to board a cruise theyd booked with their daughter. Before their daughter left, Mr and 
Mrs J took a taxi to see her. And then took a taxi to a hotel to be nearer to the consulate 
where they could  pick up their emergency travel  documents.  They  joined the cruise three 
days later but because of the delay, theyd lost out on some  meals theyd pre-paid for.
BUPA wouldnt cover  the above costs. It said the policy generally excluded  costs of taxis  
and food. It explained these costs were  covered under some  situations but even  where they 
were, this would  have to be agreed  by BUPA before the expenses  were incurred. In terms of 
the stolen cash,  Mr and Mrs J said that some of this belonged to their daughter  who was 
also covered under  the policy. BUPA paid Mr and Mrs J the maximum amount for each 
person under the policy but said it needed  more evidence to support their daughters claim.
Unhappy with BUPAs  decision,  Mr and Mrs J brought their complaint to our service. As well 
as considering BUPA should meet the claim for what they said were consequential  losses  of 
the theft, they felt the policy had been mis-sold to them as it wasnt as comprehensive  as 
theyd expected.
 
Ultimately, our investigator accepted BUPA had acted fairly. She considered  it hadnt  misled 
Mr and Mrs J into believing it would cover the disputed costs.  Mr and Mrs J disagreed with 
our investigator so the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, whilst  I sympathise 
with Mr and Mrs Js difficult situation,  Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant  section of the policy is: What  is not covered 21. Costs of telephone calls or 
faxes, food, drinks, laundry, taxi fares (unless  agreed by us under Section 4 - Medical 
emergency and other  related expenses or Section 9  Money and passport.
taxi
This cost is not covered  under the policy. Mr and Mrs J took a taxi to visit their daughter who 
had joined the cruise. As Ive noted, whilst I sympathise with their difficult  situation, the policy 
doesnt cover this cost,  so I think BUPA have acted fairly in this regard.
cash and passports
The policy allows  claims of cash of up to £200 per person.  It also covers the cost of the 
emergency replacement  or temporary  passport or visa.
Ref: DRN44265852Mr and Mrs Js claim  for the cash was for 500 euros. They  said the money belonged to them  
and their daughter  but were unable to specify how much belonged to each  party. To resolve 
things, BUPA paid Mr and Mrs J £200  each, which was the maximum each party could claim 
under the policy.  But it wouldnt pay anything more  without further information about the 
amounts lost by each  party.  I think this is fair. Their  daughter wasnt with them at the time of 
the theft and its not clear how much belonged to her. So I think its reasonable for BUPA  to 
ask for more information to support their daughters claim.
 
Mr and Mrs J want BUPA to cover the cost of their new passports which they obtained  when 
they returned to the UK. The policy only covers  the costs for an emergency or temporary 
passport and in this case, this what BUPA paid for. And I think this is fair and in line with the 
policy conditions.
food
The policy generally  excludes the cost of food and even in circumstances where it is 
covered, BUPA need  to pre-authorise this. As Mr and Mrs J had pre-paid for the meals  at the 
time of booking their holiday, this expense is not covered under the policy. Mr and Mrs J said 
when they called BUPAs  helpline  immediately  after the theft it couldnt access  its 
membership database,  so they feel BUPA  wouldnt have been able to agree these costs.  But 
as the food was pre-paid  at the time of booking the holiday, BUPA having access  to its 
database wouldnt have  changed the outcome  of this part of their claim.
sale
I note Mr and Mrs J say the policy was mis-sold because  it is not as comprehensive  or as 
high quality  as they would expect  it to be. BUPA confirmed the travel insurance  policy  was 
complimentary alongside  Mr and Mrs Js private  medical insurance obtained through an 
employer. Therefore, I cant agree there was a mis-sale of the policy as it was not actually 
sold to Mr and Mrs J. I also consider the policy wording, which  was sent to Mr and Mrs J 
along with the medical  insurance  documents, was clear about  what  the travel insurance  
would and would not cover as Ive described  above.
So all things  considered, whilst I appreciate it was a distressing time for Mr and Mrs J and 
their daughter, for the reasons Ive outlined  above, Im not upholding their complaint.
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 April 2019.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4426585