K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Stagemount Limited  trading as Quid  Market  lent him money he couldnt 
afford to repay.
background
Mr W took out three loans  with Quid Market between May and December 2017.
Quid Market says Mr W told it his net monthly income was £1624 for the first two loans and 
£1569 for the final loan.  He declared  expenses of £865 for loan 1 and £915 for loans 2 and 
3. It says a credit check revealed outstanding  loans  but each time it lent, Quid  Market  
thought this still meant Mr W had enough  disposable  income to repay all that he owed.  
Quid Market says its checks didnt  reveal  Mr Ws over reliance on short term loans and the 
loans were affordable  on the figures he gave.
The adjudicator thought  Quid  Markets  checks went far enough before agreeing  the first two 
loans, but not for the third loan. Mr W had not been  able to repay the second  loan on time 
and she thought this should  have prompted Quid Market to ask further questions, particularly 
about Mr Ws outgoings. She thought that if Quid Market had asked more questions, it 
wouldve realised Mr W had no disposable  income when he took out the third loan.
The adjudicator recommended Quid Market  refund interest and charges that Mr W paid on 
the third loan, together with interest  on the refund.  She said Quid  Market should apply the 
refund against  any outstanding capital before paying the balance to Mr W. And it should 
remove any negative information  about loan three from Mr Ws credit file.
Quid Market doesnt  agree  with the adjudicators recommendation. It doesnt agree that it 
didnt do enough  checks. Quid Market points  out the highest repayment  on the third loan 
was less than the second  loan. It says that its credit checking didnt reveal the level of short 
term debt that was outstanding and in fact showed that his credit had reduced  since  the last 
loan. It said Mr W had explained  why he had been  unable to repay his last loan and it was 
entitled to rely on his reasonable  explanation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions of the adjudicator.
Quid Market was required to lend responsibly. It needed to check whether  Mr W could afford  
to pay the loans back before it lent to him. These  checks had to be proportionate to things 
such as the amount borrowed, the length of the agreement and any borrowing history. But 
there wasnt a set list of checks it had to do.
first loan
This was Mr Ws first loan for £600 repayable over 6 months and he was due to repay under 
£200 each month.  I think it wouldve been  reasonable  of Quid  Market to agree to lend based 
on Mr Ws stated  net monthly income of about  £1,624. It went further  than this as it asked for 
his total expenses and carried out a credit check. I dont think it was unreasonable to agree 
Ref: DRN42585422to lend in the circumstances.  Mr W did have some  difficulties repaying the first instalment 
and requested a deferral  of the repayment. Mr W settled this loan early.
second loan
The second  loan was for the same amount as the first. Mr W gave  the same figure for his 
income but said that his outgoings had increased to £915. And Quid Market says that a 
credit check  revealed outstanding credit and Mr Ws disposable income figure was adjusted  
to take this into account. But even  with that adjustment  the loan appeared affordable.  On 
balance, given that Mr W had repaid  his first loan early and there  had been a gap before 
applying for loan 2 I think the checks by Quid Market were enough. Shortly  after the loan 
was granted Mr W emailed to say he would be in difficulty making the repayment and asking 
for it to be deferred. Quid Market replied to request further information but before the 
repayment was due Mr W repaid the loan in full.
third loan
 
Mr W applied  for this loan in December 2017,  eighteen days  after the previous loan had 
been repaid. Mr W said his income was £1569 and his outgoings were £915.  The repayment 
on this loan was slightly less although the loan was for the same amount.
I think that given  Mr Ws borrowing history Quid Market should have taken a closer look at 
Mr Ws finances to verify what he was saying. Mr W had twice  said he was unable  to afford 
the repayment and then repaid the loan in full. This was his third application in around 6 
months and his borrowing history suggested that he might be reliant on short term credit.
The credit file doesnt always show the up to date position with regard to short term credit.  I 
think that looking at the credit  file wasnt enough  here and Quid Market  shouldve asked 
Mr W if he had any other  short term credit. Ive looked at Mr Ws bank statements to see 
what other short term credit he had and I can see that this exceeded his income  and he 
couldnt afford the repayments on the third loan. Mr W was unable to repay the third loan 
and there  is a balance outstanding. If Quid Market had asked Mr W about  his short term 
lending I think it is likely  it would have discovered the situation and wouldnt have given him 
the third loan 
Given what Ive said above, I wouldnt have expected Quid Market,  as a responsible lender, 
to agree the third loan. I think Mr W has lost out so Quid Market should refund any interest 
and charges paid on this loan. And remove any negative information about it from Mr Ws 
credit file. 
Mr W has had the benefit of the money  lent. So its fair that Quid  Market  applies the refund 
to any outstanding capital before paying  any remaining balance to Mr W. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. To put things right, I require 
Stagemount Limited trading as Quid Market to:
refund all interest  and charges Mr W paid on loan three
pay interest on those refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
date of settlement;
Ref: DRN42585423write off any interest and charges that havent yet been  paid on loan three; 
apply the refund to any outstanding capital balance before  paying any remaining 
balance to Mr W; and
remove any negative  information about  the loan from Mr Ws credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quid Market  to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.  
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4258542