K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy  with the increases in premiums  on his home insurance with U K Insurance  
Limited (UKI).
background
UKI took over as the underwriter of Mr Fs home insurance policy  in 2001. I note that Mr Fs 
home insurance policy started some years earlier than this  but UKI can only be 
responsible for what happened from the point  it began  underwriting the policy  in 2001. 
According to UKIs  notes,  Mr F took out a new home insurance policy in October 2001. The 
premium for this year was £219.12.  This increased in the following years and in 2008 the 
premium was £379.92. 
Mr Fs home  insurance policy was cancelled  in December 2008 was replaced with a new 
policy. The premium for this new policy was £343.51. This increased  in the following years 
and in 2016 the premium quoted at renewal for Mr F was £444.60. 
Mr F queried  the price  of his premium in 2016.  He says he wasnt told that he could get 
cheaper insurance if he was treated like a new customer. He went  online and was offered a 
policy with a much lower premium which he accepted. Mr F thinks  UKI has taken  advantage  
of him by unfairly  increasing the cost of the policy over the years.  He says he was charged 
too much  and he should be compensated for the extra he had paid over the years.
The business didnt  think it had acted unfairly   and our adjudicator agreed. Mr F disagreed  
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  have  cost.  I would
be, in effect determining or telling a business how it should operate  and thats not
my role. But I can look at whether UKI has treated Mr F fairly  throughout  the period
he held his insurance policies.
In October  2001 Mr F took out a new home  insurance policy costing  £219.12 for the year.  
Mr F agreed  to take out the policy  at this price and he hasnt said he was unhappy  with the 
initial price.
Mr Fs premiums began increasing over the following years.  If UKI increased the price  just 
because Mr F didnt  engage at each renewal, that wouldnt be fair. Looking  at all the facts, 
Im not persuaded it did so. I say this because the business  notes show that in 2006, 2007 
and 2008 Mr F engaged  with the business over the cost of his premiums  at renewal. So it 
appears he was happy  with the price quoted and I dont think  the evidence  demonstrates he 
was treated unfairly. 
Mr F was paying £379.92 for his policy in 2008.  UKIs notes show  that in December 2008 he 
took out a new home insurance  policy  with a new lower premium of £343.51.  Again, he 
agreed to take out the new policy at this price so I think its likely he was happy with the 
Ref: DRN48299892premium at the time.  If he wasnt happy with what UKI was offering at this time, he could 
have gone elsewhere to get a different policy.
I can see Mr Fs premium  began to increase again in the following years. If UKI increased 
the price at this time just because  Mr F didnt engage at each renewal, that wouldnt be fair. 
But looking  at all the facts, Im not persuaded this is what  happened here. Mr F engaged with 
the business about his premium in 2015.  And as Mr F was a customer who had in previous 
years engaged with the business about the price  of his premium, taking out new policies in 
both 2001 and 2008, I dont think UKI acted  unfairly  here. 
UKI isnt obliged to explain  to its customers  how its priced  its policies. But it does need to 
send renewal offers a reasonable  amount of time before  the policy renews  so they have the 
chance to shop around or discuss the price with UKI if theyre unhappy  which  it appears  to 
have done. Its for consumers to decide whether they want  to pay for the cover theyre 
offered at the price theyre offered.  I can see that the price offered to Mr F in 2016  was 
ultimately unacceptable to him and he cancelled his policy  at this time  and found  what  he 
thought was a more  suitably priced  policy online. 
Mr F is unhappy  that he wasnt told he could get cheaper insurance if he was treated as a 
new customer. The insurance market is a highly  competitive one and new policies typically 
include significant discounts in order to attract new customers. But that in itself isnt 
necessarily unfair. Renewing home insurance can involve a bit of time and effort  to get the 
best terms.
People who take the time to shop  around or engage with their insurer over the price of their 
premium often end up paying less. But I dont  think UKI should  have to compensate  Mr F for 
this in the circumstances of his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.  
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4829989