K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited  unfairly held him at fault 
for causing an accident, which meant  his motor  insurance is now too expensive.
background
Mr C said he was involved in a minor accident on 16 August 2017,  when  his car and another 
car scrapped  each  other. Mr C said the other driver didnt  want to go through insurance  and 
Mr C said he offered  to pay for the other drivers  minor damage to his car. He said the other 
driver never  came back to him on this.
Markerstudy said they first became aware  of the accident on 6 September  2017  when  the 
other driver and passenger made personal  injury  claims. It contacted  Mr C to get his version  
of events. But despite sending out a loss adjuster Mr C didnt give it a full statement. 
Markerstudy did send out an engineer to examine Mr Cs car and that engineer  reported.
Markerstudy decided  Mr C was at fault for the accident and it settled the other drivers 
claims. That meant Mr Cs No Claims Discount (NCD) was reduced  and obviously  that in 
addition to having another claim on his insurance  record increased his premium.
Mr C complained as he thought  the other drivers  claims  were  fraudulent.  Markerstudy didnt 
think it had done  anything wrong as the other driver produced evidence  of the personal injury 
claims and the damage to his car. 
Mr C remained  dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think  
Markerstudy had done anything  wrong. Mr C disagreed so his complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
Its neither my role nor that of this service to decide who was responsible  for causing an 
accident. Thats a matter for the courts. My role is solely to ensure Markerstudy dealt with 
the matter fairly and in line with the policy conditions.
Once Markerstudy was aware of the incident given the other  drivers claims,  its file shows  
me that it asked Mr C for his version  of events and asked him to write out a statement and 
provide a sketch, which Mr C didnt  do. It also asked loss adjusters to meet with Mr C in 
order to get his version of events but they were unable to contact  him either.
So that shows me that Markerstudy made appropriate and repeated  attempts to find out 
what Mr Cs version  of events were before deciding to settle the other  drivers  claim on a 
without prejudice  basis. It was only after that Mr C alleged the other  drivers claims were  
possibly fraudulent. 
However, Mr C told us when he brought his complaint to us, that he offered  to locate an 
appropriate repairer for the other driver  and that he also offered to pay for the repairs as he 
thought the repairs would  only cost a minimal amount of around £50. That also tells me that 
at the time Mr C thought he was responsible for the damage to the other drivers car. 
Ref: DRN47449702Mr Cs policy  like almost  every other policy has the following clauses:
General Conditions
4. Accident or losses
..
We shall be entitled to take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim 
or prosecute  any claim  in the name  of any person covered by this insurance.
.
5. Claims procedures

We shall have discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or in the settlement of 
any claim.
This means  Markerstudy makes the decision based on the evidence  its received whether to 
settle a claim against its insured or to defend any action taken by another driver. Its in 
almost every  other  motor  policy, so I dont consider its unusual. Markerstudys file shows  me 
it received the appropriate medical  evidence to substantiate the personal injury claims of the 
other driver and the damage  to the other drivers car. Therefore I dont consider it did 
anything wrong  in the absence of any information from Mr C, to go ahead  and settle  the 
other drivers  claims on the best possible terms.
And in any event Mr C told us he was initially willing to pay for the damage to the other 
drivers car, which  shows  me he thought it was his fault.
And for completeness sake, its not the amount  an insurer pays  out on any claim which 
increases the premium  for a consumer like Mr C,  for the next years policy,  its the number 
of claims on the consumers record which increases it.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4744970