K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide  Building Society:
Debited his account with card transactions that had been  declined.
Allowed the payments to debit his account when he didnt  have enough money to cover  
them.
Failed to tell him that his account  was overdrawn and his credit  file was affected.
background
On 18 February 2017, Mr Cs FlexBasic account had a balance  of £57.29. On 20 February  
the following  items debited his account:
Card payment  pay at pump £62.76
Card payment £62.81
Card payment £3.89
ATM cash  withdrawal £50.00
This resulted in an overdrawn balance of £122.17.
Mr C says the card payments were declined at the point of transaction, so he paid by cash. 
He was unaware that his account  was overdrawn  until August 2018  which  is when he 
contacted Nationwide.
Nationwide says theres no evidence that the transactions were  declined and that they 
correctly debited the account. During  an automated phone call in March 2017, Mr C agreed 
to pay the overdrawn  balance and it sent him four letters to ask him to pay. It apologised that 
when Mr C called it in September 2018  he was told his call would be passed to the fraud 
team, but instead he was transferred to its collections team.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded, in 
summary, that Nationwide  had acted in line with the account terms and conditions,  that there 
wasnt any evidence that the card payments  had been declined,  and that Mr C shouldve  
been aware from the account statements that his account was overdrawn.
Mr C didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
The payments were declined and he ended up paying in cash. So hes paid twice.
Nationwide told him to speak to its fraud team. He was told they would  investigate  the 
payments but this never happened.
He wasnt aware that the transactions had gone  through until months later,  because  he 
didnt receive  any statements.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN42675602Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.
were the card payments declined?
Mr C says the card payments were declined and so he paid for the goods  in cash. 
Unfortunately, due to the time thats  passed, he doesnt have  evidence  to show that his card 
was declined. I would expect Nationwides systems to show evidence when a card payment 
is declined, but theres  no record of this. And theres no record of any technical problems 
that impacted  on customers on that day.
Mr C says he didnt contact Nationwide  at the time because he didnt realise the transactions 
had gone through. By the time he did contact Nationwide, it was too late under the card 
chargeback rules for the society  to request  a chargeback.
I cant see that Nationwide has done anything wrong. Although Ive taken into account  
Mr Cs recollection of what happened,  Ive not seen enough evidence for me to conclude  that 
the card payments were declined. So I dont think theres any obligation on Nationwide to 
either investigate this further or reverse the transactions.
should Nationwides fraud team have investigated?
Theres no evidence that Mr C queried the transactions on his account until August 2018. 
Nationwide agreed  to call Mr C the following day and transfer him to its Visa dispute team.  
Although the time of the call was agreed, and Nationwide made a call to the agreed number, 
there was no answer. I dont find Nationwide was obliged to do any more  at this point. The 
member of staff had made it clear that Mr C needed to contact Nationwides Visa dispute 
team if he wanted to dispute the transactions.
Mr C called again the following month  to ask for a new card for the account.  The member of 
staff realised there was a restriction on the account  and thought  this had been  placed there 
by the fraud team, so he told Mr C he would transfer  him to the fraud department. But he 
then realised the restriction had actually been placed by the collections team, so he 
transferred the call there. Nationwide has apologised  that Mr C wasnt told he was being 
transferred to the collection team.  
I dont find that Nationwide agreed that its fraud team would investigate what had happened. 
And I dont  find that Mr C contacted the fraud team to ask for an investigation. I accept there 
was some confusion during the September call and that Mr C may have thought  he was 
being put through to the fraud  team.  But the society has apologised for this which  I think is 
fair and reasonable.
should Mr C have been allowed to pay by card?
The terms and conditions  of the FlexBasic account  do not include an overdraft  facility.  Under  
the account holders  obligations, it says:
To ensure that you can always  pay for things you want, its important that you make  sure 
you have enough  money available to use before  you ask us to make a payment.
Ref: DRN42675603It was Mr Cs responsibility to know his account balance and to check  he had enough money 
to cover any card transactions. And by using his card when he didnt have enough money,  
he breached the terms of the account.
The terms explain that:
there may be some occasions when  you pay for things and the purchase  system used by 
a merchant does  not send  us a request for prior authorisation of the payment and so we 
cannot prevent  the account  going  into an unarranged overdraft.
This is what  happened here. So I dont find Nationwide was wrong to debit  the transactions  
to Mr Cs account. 
should Nationwide have done more  to tell Mr C that his account was overdrawn?
As noted earlier, it was Mr Cs responsibility to know the balance on his account. 
He wouldve received monthly statements  showing the balance of the account, but 
Nationwide wrote to him separately on 10 March 2017, at the address it held in its records, 
to tell him his account was overdrawn and to ask him to bring the account balance above  
zero. It then sent three  further letters to tell Mr C his account was still overdrawn and that he 
couldnt use the account until the balance was brought  back above zero. These  were  all sent 
to the address held in its records. And I cant see that Mr C notified Nationwide of a change  
of address during this period.
Even if Mr C didnt  receive these letters, I find that on 24 March 2017 Mr C knew the account 
was overdrawn because  he received an automated phone call during which he confirmed  
by pressing 1 on his phone  that he would repay  the overdrawn balance.  There isnt a 
recording of this call, because it was automated;  but there is a record that the call took place 
and the outcome of that call was that Mr C agreed to credit  his account.
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont find that Nationwide has done anything  wrong.  I dont 
find that Nationwide was wrong to debit his account  with the three  card payments and one 
ATM cash  withdrawal  on 20 February 2017. Nationwide  has fairly followed its collection 
procedure, has not charged Mr C any interest  on the overdrawn balance and is obliged  to 
ensure Mr Cs credit file is an accurate reflection of the conduct of the account.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ref: DRN42675604ombudsman
Ref: DRN4267560