K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 1993. Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
This sale took place  a long time ago, so its not that surprising that not all the paperwork 
from this time is still available. And theres  no written  record of what was said to 
Mr and Mrs S by the mortgage  advisor  they spoke to. But Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage 
application that Mr and Mrs S completed and signed. And I can see that PPI cover was 
selected for Mr S only, with a monthly benefit  of £400.
Mr and Mrs S say that they were told they had to take the PPI to get their mortgage. Ive 
thought carefully  about what theyve said. But I have to bear in mind  that memories  tend to 
fade over such long periods of time. And I dont think  that it would be fair for me to conclude  
that the advisor misled Mr and Mrs S in this way, based only on what they now think  
happened then.  
On balance, I think its more likely  that the advisor did strongly recommended  that they take 
out the policy, but didnt  wrongly  tell them  that they had to have it to get their mortgage.  I 
think they actively decided to take the policy knowing they had a choice.
As this was an advised sale, Lloyds needed to ensure  that the policy  was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs S. I dont  know  how it did this. But from what I know about Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason  why it wouldnt have been suitable.  I say 
this because:
Mr S appears to have  been eligible for the policy and doesnt seem  to have been 
affected by any of its main exclusions and limitations.
Mr S says that he was entitled to six months sick pay from his employer. But this policy  
would have paid out in addition  to any other  means  that Mr and Mrs S might have had 
available to them. It would have covered them for up to twelve  months if Mr S hadnt 
been able to work because of an accident,  sickness or unemployment. And a mortgage 
is a big financial commitment  one where your home is potentially  at risk if the monthly  
repayments cant be made. So I think that Mr and Mrs S would still have valued the extra  
security that this policy gave them.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs S. And as the 
premiums were  paid monthly,  it could  have been  cancelled by them if it no longer met 
their needs.
Ref: DRN40519862Lloyds also needed  to give Mr and Mrs S enough clear  information about the policy  for them 
to decide if they wanted  it. I think its possible that the information it gave them  could have 
been better than it was. But for much  the same reasons  that I dont think the policy was 
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs S, I dont  think that better information would have changed their 
minds about buying  it. I think  theyd  still have thought that the policy provided useful cover at 
an affordable price.
So I dont  think that Mr and Mrs S have lost out by anything that Lloyds may have  done  
wrong when it sold them  this PPI policy.
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. But 
Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs S have  said about why they still think  the PPI 
was mis-sold. But this doesnt  change my mind about not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
costs of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums paid. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 May 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4051986