K820x#14complaint
Miss A complained on behalf  of Mrs B that her broker, CC Flint and Company Limited (CCF),  
didnt tell Mrs B about the single item policy limit on her home insurance policy and as a 
result a claim for lost jewellery wasnt paid in full. She said the policy had been  miss-sold.
background
Mrs B first took out home insurance through CCF several years ago. CCF said that at that 
time and on each renewal, it had sent her the policy  schedule which included a £5,000  single 
article limit of £5,000  on jewellery.
Mrs B made a claim after she lost a bangle. Miss A said the bangle  was worth about  £11,000  
and provided proof of purchase.  The insurer said it was only liable to pay £5,000 in respect 
of it because of the single article limit. Miss A says CCF never asked Mrs B about  her 
valuable items and didnt make  her aware of this limit and didnt provide the policy  wording.
CCF said it had supplied  the documentation promptly when the policy  was first taken out with 
the insurer in question and it set out the single item limit along  with confirmation  that no 
single items  had been disclosed.  CCF said it had done the same on each renewal. CCF 
said it asked Mrs B about specified  items  when the policy started, and she had the 
opportunity to add items at each renewal  but hadnt done so.
Miss A brought Mrs Bs complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said 
CCF checked with Mrs B the total cover she needed  for valuables and this was set at 
£35,000. It asked  her if she had any single items over £5,000 but none were specified.  She 
said the limit was set out in the policy documents that were  sent to Mrs B. She said Mrs B 
had been treated fairly by CCF and the policy  hadnt been mis-sold.
As Miss A on behalf of Mrs B didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me. Miss A said 
that CCF hadnt provided a suitable  policy and had never mentioned  any specific  items  limit. 
She said the bangle was a gift to Mrs B and so she wouldnt  have known the value. She said 
Mrs Bs claim was within the cover limit as it is under £35,000 and should be paid.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B believes she is covered under her policy for jewellery to the value of £35,000.  Her 
claim for jewellery she said is worth  £11,000 has been restricted  by a policy term that 
imposes a limit on single  articles of £5,000.
Its not my role to tell insurers what limits they should place on articles at risk, this is for their 
underwriters to determine. Mrs B has brought a separate complaint against the insurer  about 
the policy limit. 
This complaint is against Mrs Bs broker, CCF.  My role is to decide if the policy has been 
mis-sold to Mrs B because it wasnt suitable  for her needs. In doing so I have looked to see if 
CCF has brought  onerous policy terms to Mrs Bs attention so that she could make an 
informed decision about whether or not the policy gives her the cover she requires.
Ref: DRN42161242A limit for single items is standard  in insurance  policies but it must be clear from the policy  
wording that this will apply  to claims. I have looked  closely at CCFs records and can see 
that it sent policy details to Mrs B at the address provided at each renewal of the policy.  
These referred to the policy booklet  available  online  or in hard copy at request. The policy  
states that the most that will be paid for an item of jewellery, unless specified, is £5,000.
Miss A said there was no discussion or questionnaire  to Mrs B about her jewellery and no 
policy information was sent. This would have been against CCFs normal  process  for getting 
a policy  started with a questionnaire and doesnt  explain how a limit of £35,000 for Mrs Bs 
jewellery was established.   
From the records Ive seen renewal  documents were sent to Mrs B each year.  These state 
that no items  of jewellery had been  specified, and state that this information should be 
checked. Im sorry to learn that Mrs B didnt receive  these, but I can see they were properly 
despatched. The policy was available to check and this contained information about the 
single item limit.
I think CCF did enough to alert Mrs B to the single item limit for jewellery, but unfortunately 
no items were specified. I think the policy was suitable for Mrs Bs needs, but the cover  
available wasnt requested. This may be because Mrs B didnt know the value of her bangle,  
but that isnt CCFs fault. I dont think the policy was mis-sold by CCF and I think  it has 
treated Mrs B fairly, so I cant uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4216124