K821x#15Complaint
Mr E complains, in summary, that TSB Bank plc did not do enough to help him recover  all 
the money he had paid to a binary options  trading platform using his TSB VISA debit card.
Background
After seeing an advertisement  for an entity offering binary options trading Mr E made five 
payments to them, totalling  £5,472.92,  in December  2018.  But  by the following month  he 
was concerned about the performance of his investments  especially since the platform  
had told him he would need  to invest more to achieve the originally-expected returns.  Mr E 
tried to withdraw his money but was unsuccessful, and he then discovered that the platform 
was not authorised by the Financial  Conduct Authority.  That  led him to approach TSB to ask 
the bank to retrieve his money.
TSB raised  chargebacks against the merchant (the binary options trading platform) with 
VISA, although it explained to Mr E that without additional evidence the dispute wasnt  
strong.  The merchant  defended the chargebacks on the basis that Mr E hadnt met the 
terms and conditions for withdrawing  money,  although he did subsequently receive two 
refunds totalling  £1,412.31.  TSB said it believed that the merchant had made those  refunds 
as a gesture of goodwill  rather than admitting any wrongdoing, and it did not progress 
Mr Es remaining  chargeback claims for the rest of the money  (£4,060.61) any further.
Our investigator concluded, first of all, that the merchant had operated a scam.  He further 
found that TSB should have submitted the chargeback claim to VISA differently using a more 
appropriate reason code.   As a result, he recommended that the bank should  refund to 
Mr E his outstanding money together with the transaction charges it had levied, plus interest.
Although Mr E accepted the investigators recommendation, TSB did not.  After  a delay of 
more than three months  during which time Mr E found it difficult to understand why the 
bank was taking  so long  TSB responded to say that Mr Es payments had not been made 
to buy goods or services  but were,  instead, credits to his binary options trading account 
which he later used  to trade.   Because of this it considered that it had used the appropriate 
chargeback reason code  and, furthermore,  that there was no evidence to suggest that if 
the bank had used a different chargeback code the outcome would have been any different.  
The complaint has, therefore,  been referred  to me for review  and determination.  
My Findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments in order to decide what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.  Where the 
evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, and/or contradictory  as some of it is here  I reach 
my conclusions on the balance of probabilities; that is, what I consider is most likely  to have 
happened in light of the evidence that is available and the wider  surrounding circumstances.
To begin with, there is no dispute  that Mr E agreed to make  the five payments he did to the 
merchant, and that he signed   amongst other  things  a document issued by the merchant 
setting out the conditions  which needed to be met before withdrawals could be made.  Mr E 
explains that he was persuaded  to open  his account with the merchant because of promises  
of early profits  but he quickly  became suspicious when those profits didnt materialise and 
he was asked to pay more money  in order to generate them.
Ref: DRN45030702Our investigator looked into the merchants background and determined, on balance, that it 
was operating as a scam binary  options  trading platform.  There was evidence  available in 
the public  domain at around  the time Mr E complained to TSB that the merchant was 
unlicensed, and that several of its apparent trading practices were indicators of fraud.   The 
investigator also concluded that this should have been reasonably apparent  to TSB when it 
received Mr Es complaint  in particular, pressure to pay more  money,  unexplained  losses, 
and the investor  losing access to his trading account  such  that the bank should have 
identified that the merchant was more than likely operating fraudulently.  Furthermore,  the 
stated condition surrounding withdrawals being linked to such a very high multiple of bonus 
payments (80 x) was, in my view,  a further indicator  of a fraudulent operation   as, of course, 
were Mr Es own representations to the bank that he had been conned.   The  practical effect 
of the bonus clause was that Mr E would have to have had a turnover of more than £136,000 
through his account before he would be permitted to make  any withdrawals.  Bearing in mind 
that he had only deposited about  £5,500  I cannot  see how  on any reasonable analysis  
that could be considered  to be either  fair, reasonable, or an appropriate contractual clause.
In all the circumstances, therefore, I share the investigators view that TSB should have been  
more alert to the various adverse indicators about the merchant at the time it received Mr Es 
complaint than it apparently was, including when it was preparing its chargeback 
submission.  The  bank has said that the chargeback scheme  is voluntary and that banks are 
not under  any formal  obligation to submit  a chargeback claim.  That is, of course, correct.  
However, this services view is that it is good  practice for a bank always  to make a 
chargeback claim unless it is, for example, very evident on the basic  facts that it stands no 
reasonable prospect of success.  That was not the case here  but, either way, TSB did 
indeed submit the requested chargeback, using reason code 13.5 (misrepresentation).
The investigator suggested to TSB that it should instead have submitted the chargeback 
request under reason  code 13.3 (service not as described)  and that, if the bank had done  so, 
it would  have stood  a greater chance of success.   TSB  disagrees  with that assessment.  
However, in my view,  the core issue which underpins this complaint is more  about whether  
if the bank had pursued the chargeback claim further than it did (under either reason code)  
the merchants  initial defence would  have been overturned such  that Mr E would have 
received his money back.  There is evidence to suggest that that would indeed have 
happened, not least because TSB did further  pursue one of Mr Es transactions  which was 
subsequently refunded  (along with an additional  partial payment).  The bank has speculated 
that those refunds were made as a gesture of goodwill  but, in all the circumstances, 
I consider that to be relatively unlikely.  Whilst I accept it is always possible that a merchant 
such as the entity  Mr E was dealing with would  make  a voluntary/goodwill payment it seems 
more likely to me, on the balance of probabilities, that the refunds were  actually  made 
because the merchant did not or was unable to maintain its earlier  chargeback defence.   
It follows from this, therefore, that I consider TSB should have pursued the chargeback 
process for the remainder of Mr Es transactions further than it did.  It is now too late for TSB 
to do so  but if it had done so it seems  more likely than not, in all the circumstances  and on 
the balance of probabilities, that he would have  received a refund of those payments as well.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my Final  Decision is that I uphold  this complaint.  To settle 
it, TSB Bank  plc should:
1.Pay to Mr E the outstanding amount of the total sum he paid to the merchant in 
December 2018  £4,060.61.
Ref: DRN450307032.Refund to Mr E the charges  it levied for each  of the five payments he made.
3.Pay interest to Mr E on the above sums, at an annual rate of 8% simple, from the date 
each individual  payment  and each individual transaction  charge   were made to the 
date of settlement.
If TSB Bank  plc considers  it is required to deduct tax from the interest element of my award it 
should provide  Mr E with an appropriate tax deduction certificate  so that he may seek  to 
reclaim the tax if he considers he is entitled  to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 January  2021.
David Millington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4503070