K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Northern Bank  Limited (Northern Bank) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI)  to them alongside  a mortgage in 1997.  
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs J disagreed with 
that view. So the matter  has been  passed to me to make a final decision. 
I want to acknowledge  at the outset that Mr and Mrs Js complaint has been  with this Service  
for a very long time. This is largely  because we have been  working  through  the implications  
a recent  Supreme Court judgment  had upon cases like this. I am grateful to the parties for 
their patience while this work was done.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs J but I havent  upheld their complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
The parties agree that PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs J during a meeting. I cant  know what  
was said during that meeting. To help me decide  whats likely to have happened, Ive looked 
at what Mr and Mrs J told us about it. And Ive also considered the paperwork thats 
available from that time.  
Before I consider the complaint in detail, I want to make clear  what the PPI that was sold to 
Mr and Mrs J covered.  I can see that they took out a loan initially  with Northern Bank in 
1997. They  agree  that a PPI policy was sold alongside that loan. Mr and Mrs J brought our 
attention to a number  of further  loans  they took out and said that they didnt agree to take 
PPI out for those  loans. 
What Mr and Mrs J remember about  the PPI they bought is absolutely right. The only PPI 
that was sold to them was alongside  the first loan. The amount of cover wasnt  amended and 
cost £6.30 per month for £100 of cover. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mr and Mrs J would have known this PPI policy  
was optional. Ive had the benefit of seeing  Mr and Mrs Js application form. I can see that in 
that form, theyve selected cover  for Mr J only. Theyve handwritten a cover  amount  of £100 
and have both signed the PPI section. There was an option  for both of them to be covered or 
to refuse  the policy altogether if they didnt want cover. 
Mr and Mrs J told us that Northern Bank  told them that they had to take the PPI out 
otherwise their loan wouldnt  be approved. I dont doubt that what Mr and Mrs J told us is 
what they honestly remember about  how PPI was sold to them. But I also have to take into 
account that PPI was sold over 15 years before they brought their complaint to us. It is 
difficult to remember precisely what happened such a long time ago. Looking at the 
application form, I think its clear  that PPI wasnt a condition of the mortgage. And in the 
Ref: DRN45773082absence of any further evidence, I think the person selling  PPI probably also made  that clear  
to them.   On balance,  although I appreciate they dont now remember,  I think  Mr and Mrs J 
probably knew theyd  bought a policy in 1997 and that they didnt have to take it out if they 
didnt want it. 
Mr and Mrs J told us that Northern Bank  advised  them to buy this PPI policy. Northern Bank 
says it didnt. Ive accepted  what  Mr and Mrs J told me about how the policy was sold to 
them and treated this as an advised sale. Thats a harder test for Northern Bank  to satisfy 
because it  had to make sure the cover was suitable for their needs. To help me decide 
whether it was suitable, Ive looked  at the terms and conditions of the policy. And Ive looked  
at what Mr and Mrs J told us about their personal  circumstances at the time. 
I can see that if theyd had to make  a claim on the PPI, Mr J would have been covered for 
£100 per month towards the loan repayment. Although  I appreciate their borrowing 
increased over the years, it appears that when  PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs J, it would have 
been enough to cover their mortgage  repayments  if Mr J was out of work. 
Mr J told us he was self-employed and so he didnt think hed have been able to claim on the 
PPI. Having considered  the terms and conditions of the policy,  it says that Mr J would have 
been covered  for unemployment  where he could show he was actively seeking  full 
employment and hed had to stop work because he wasnt able to meet  his reasonable 
business and living expenses. I think its important  for me to say that for this policy, there  
was no requirement  for Mr J to be insolvent before he could make a claim. Overall,  I dont 
think the terms and conditions of the PPI made it more difficult for Mr J to claim than it would  
have been if he was an employee. 
Given the nature of his work, I dont think Mr J would have been entitled  to sick pay. And Mr 
and Mrs J told us they had between three and six months savings to last them if Mr J wasnt  
working. The PPI would have covered them for up to 12 months  for each claim.  So it follows 
that the cover would have lasted for longer than their savings. 
Mr and Mrs J told us that Mr J didnt have any health problems. So I dont think  hed have 
been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent  seen 
anything else about his circumstances that would have stopped him from making a 
successful claim  if he needed to. 
With all of this in mind, I think the PPI probably  was suitable for his needs. Even so, Northern 
Bank still had to give Mr and Mrs J enough  information about the cover so they could decide 
for themselves whether  the cover was a good  fit for their needs. That information had to be 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
It is possible that the information Northern  Bank  gave to Mr and Mrs J wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive set out above  how the PPI could have been useful to them  if Mr J 
was out of work. And although I appreciate Mr and Mrs J dont agree, the evidence suggests 
they probably chose  to take PPI out at the time.  With that in mind,  I dont think more  or better  
information about the PPI cover would have  put them off taking it out. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs J paid on their PPI and whether Northern 
Bank treated them unfairly. 
Northern Bank has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Js PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Northern Bank has been working this 
Ref: DRN45773083out and based on what weve seen it looks like it is right Mr and Mrs Js commission was 
less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them  about 
the commission  so I dont think Northern Bank treated them unfairly.  This means it doesnt 
need to pay Mr and Mrs J back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Northern Bank Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4577308