K820x#14complaint
Mrs T has complained about One Insurance Limiteds handling of her car insurance  policy.
Reference to One Insurance includes their agents.
background
Mrs Ts car insurance  policy with One Insurance renewed in December  2017.  She was the 
policyholder and her husband was a named driver.
Her husband had a separate  policy with another insurer.  In May 2017, while Mrs Ts 
husbands car was parked and unattended it was struck by another vehicle and damaged. 
He claimed on his own policy because the person  responsible for the damage wasnt known.  
That claim was recorded as a fault claim.
When Mrs Ts December  2017 policy was being  renewed, One Insurance  asked her if either 
she or her husband had any recent  accidents or claims. But Mrs T didnt  tell One Insurance  
about her husbands claim in May 2017.
In November 2018, Mrs T claimed  on her policy. It was during that claim One Insurance 
found out about her husbands  May 2017 claim. One Insurance  voided (treated as though  it 
never came into existence) Mrs Ts policy and refunded her full premium. One Insurance  
said, under  their underwriting rules,  they dont insure anyone who has a fault claim in the 
past three years. So, had they known about  Mrs Ts husbands  May 2017 claim when her 
policy came  to renew, they wouldnt have provided cover.
Mrs T didnt  think  that was fair and complained. But One Insurance didnt uphold  it. Mrs T 
didn't think  that was reasonable  so she brought her complaint  to us. One of our adjudicators  
looked into it. He felt that One Insurances decision was reasonable. As Mrs T didnt agree 
with our adjudicator,  the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mrs T, but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
In her complaint, Mrs T has made  a number  of detailed points and Ive considered  all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if One Insurance have  dealt with Mrs T in a fair and reasonable way.
I think it would be helpful if I first explain how the insurance  industry define a fault  claim. 
The term can be misleading as it doesnt  necessarily mean the policyholder  was to blame  
or at fault  for an incident. Instead, if an insurer pays  out on a claim but cant recover their 
outlay (the amount they paid to settle the claim) from another  party, that claim gets recorded  
against the policyholders record and on a shared insurance database as a fault claim.  So, in 
the case of Mrs Ts husband, his car was parked and unattended  when another  vehicle  
crashed into it causing damage.  So her husband wasn't to blame. But because  the other 
driver didnt leave their details and Mrs Ts husbands insurer  didnt have anyone to recover 
their outlay from, the claim was recorded  as a fault claim. That is normal  insurance  industry  
practice.
Ref: DRN49440622I have seen One Insurances  underwriting criteria. Each insurer sets their own underwriting 
criteria which are the rules they follow to determine whether or not they will provide someone 
with cover.  One Insurances rules  say that they dont provide cover to anyone who has had a 
fault claim in the past three  years.  So, Im satisfied that if One Insurance knew  about  Mrs Ts 
husbands May 2017 claim, they wouldnt have renewed her policy  in December  2017.
One Insurance have suggested that Mrs T not telling them  about her husbands claim 
amounted to, what is known in the insurance  industry, a careless  misrepresentation. And 
theres specific legislation - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA)  that sets out what insurers may do in such  a situation.  It says that insurers  
may void the policy and refuse all claims if they wouldnt  have provided  cover had the correct 
information been given by the policyholder when applying for the policy. Where that happens 
the insurer must return the premium, which is what One Insurance have done. 
Ref: DRN49440623In Mrs Ts case, a month  before her policy was due to renew, One Insurance  sent her a 
renewal invite. In that they asked her to please read this renewal notice and tell us before 
the renewal date if any of your circumstances have changed, or if you or any other  driver 
included on this policy has had an accident, loss or conviction in the past 12 months. Mrs T 
said that the documentation  wasnt clear  and that she didnt consider her husbands  incident  
as an accident.  But further into the renewal invite letter there  was a page titled Important 
Information.  And under Duty of Disclosure One Insurance explained that Mrs T should 
disclose any relevant information before the impending renewal. The letter  explained that if 
she didnt her insurance may be invalidated.  The letter said that if she was in doubt about  
whether something  was relevant, she should  ask. It then went onto give examples of the 
types of things that should be disclosed. That included any losses, accidents or claims 
when driving this or another  vehicle. I think the incident giving rise to the May 2017 claim 
was both an accident  and a claim which should  have been  disclosed.
Around a month after the renewal invite letter, One Insurance sent Mrs T a welcome letter. 
That letter had very similar warnings to the previous invite letter.  The welcome  letter 
attached a document called statement  of fact and said Please show  below  any accidents, 
thefts or losses (irrespective of blame and whether a claim resulted)  which you or any other 
person who will drive  have been involved in within the past 5 years.  The welcome  letter, like 
the renewal invite, asked Mrs T to read all the documentation carefully  and to correct 
anything that was incorrect. The letter also warned that not doing so could have a number of 
consequences, including the policy being  voided.
One Insurance also provided Mrs T with a policy booklet that also explained the importance 
of her telling them about information,  such as a motoring  accident, insurance claim 
involving any person  who will drive your vehicle I think the information One Insurance  
provided Mrs T and their repeated requests for her to provide information  about past 
accidents/claims was clear. I accept that there was no bad intent on Mrs Ts part but I do 
think that she made a careless misrepresentation by not telling One Insurance  about her 
husbands past claim. I therefore feel that One Insurances decision to void the policy  and 
refund the premium  in full was in accordance  with CIDRA and therefore reasonable. While I 
have sympathy for Mrs T and the consequences she has been experiencing because  of the 
voidance of her policy,  Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4944062