K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains that Liverpool  Victoria Friendly Society Limited (LV) took a direct  debit 
payment from her bank  account for a life assurance  policy that shed cancelled.
background
In August  2018,  Ms D took out a life assurance policy  with LV. She did this through an 
Independent Financial Advisor (IFA). The policy provided cover  of £65,000 over 38 years  for 
a monthly premium of £20.13.
In January 2019, Ms D decided to cancel  the policy and called her IFA. She asked to cancel 
the direct  debit and changed her address details.
But the direct debit was still taken from her account  that month. Ms D complained  and said 
that she felt that LV had stolen from her and that money had been taken without her 
permission. Ms D said she felt bullied and humiliated  like she wasnt  able to control her 
finances. She felt that LV was keeping the rest of the balance  of the premiums shed paid 
and that this had been  for nothing.
LV said it had been notified of her change of address, but not that she wanted to cancel the 
direct debit. And the collection  process  for that months direct debit had already started, so 
LV wouldve  been unable  to stop the direct debit being claimed,  even it if had been aware 
that Ms D no longer  wanted the policy. It refunded the payment back to her account and 
Ms Ds policy  was cancelled with affect from the date covered by the previous premium, 
10 January 2019.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld. She said 
Ms D had contacted  her IFA and she didnt see that LV had received an instruction to cancel 
the direct  debit so it would be aware  that was what Ms D wanted. The investigator also said 
that direct  debits start the claiming cycle four working days before they are due to be 
collected, so she didnt think LV wouldve been  able to stop this process.  
She said LV took reasonable steps in refunding the payment as soon as it was made aware  
that Ms D no longer  wanted the policy. She said the policy conditions  said:  You can cancel 
your policy at any time by contacting us, although if you do you will lose all your cover  under 
the policy and wont get anything back. So she didnt think LV should  be required to refund 
the rest of the premiums  Ms D had paid.
Ms D didnt accept the investigators findings. She said the matter had caused her to feel 
humiliated and discriminated against,  and had caused her emotional distress She considers 
the taking of the payment  after she had cancelled the direct debit to be theft and fraudulent  
use of her bank details.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN48655722My role here is to decide whether LV has acted fairly towards  Ms D. It isnt my role to say 
whether LV has acted unlawfully  thats a matter for the courts.  However, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and what I consider to be good industry practice when 
deciding what is fair and reasonable. 
Im sorry  to hear how this situation has left Ms D feeling. I do understand all shes told us 
about how whats happened has upset and worried her, particularly given the family 
circumstances that led to her wanting to cancel her life assurance.
Although LV is the provider of the policy, Ms D took it out on the advice and recommendation 
of an IFA. And Ms D contacted that IFA to say that she wanted to cancel the direct debit and 
that shed changed address. 
Ive looked through LVs contact records for Ms Ds policy,  and these show that the IFA 
called to update her address on 25 January. But not that any mention was made of her 
wanting to cancel the direct debit or policy. 
A direct debit is a customers  authority to allow  the collection of a variable payment from their 
account. The collection date for Ms Ds premium payment was 28th of each month.  The 
processing cycle for a direct debit collection starts before the due date, so here the process 
of LV claiming Ms Ds payment had already begun when she cancelled  her direct debit 
authority by calling  her IFA and through her online banking.
So, even if LV had been  made aware  that Ms D wanted to cancel her direct debit on 25 
January, the direct  debit claim process  had already begun and so it wouldnt have been  able 
to stop it. 
Although I appreciate that Ms D cancelled it with her bank online before the due date, the 
premium payment was then claimed  from her account on the direct  debit  authority  Ms D had 
given LV.
I can see that Ms D contacted LV when she noticed  the payment had gone out. It then 
cancelled the policy, and refunded the payment once it had cleared. Ms Ds policy  started on 
the 10th of the month, so her premium payments on the 28th paid for her cover between  the 
10th of that month to the 10th of the next month.  By refunding the payment that had been  due 
of the 28 January, this meant  that her policy was cancelled with an effective date of 
10 January  the end of the period  covered by her previous payment in December 2018.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think that LV did anything wrong in collecting the 
January payment when it was unaware  that Ms D no longer wanted the life assurance. 
Ms D had the benefit of the life assurance  from when she started  it. So although she then 
decided to cancel  it, I dont think LV should be required to refund all of the premiums she 
paid through this time. This is in line with the policy terms and conditions.
I do understand that Ms D feels that shes  been discriminated against. The Equality Act says 
that people with protected characteristics  mustnt be discriminated against. The protected  
characteristics include race which includes a group of people  defined by their race,  colour 
and nationality (including citizenship) ethnic or national origins. The Equality Act defines  
direct discrimination  and indirect discrimination.
Ref: DRN48655723Here, a payment  was taken from Ms Ds account for the continuation of the life assurance 
cover LV was providing her with. It was unaware that Ms D no longer wanted this cover and 
had cancelled her direct debit authority, and the claim process  for the direct debit payment 
had already begun. The payment  was refunded back  to Ms D. I dont think  this means  it 
could be said that LV discriminated  against  Ms D either directly or indirectly,  as it seems this 
situation wouldve  been the same  for any customer in these particular circumstances and the 
direct debit processes  is an automated one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4865572