K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs D. FICL  didnt  actually  sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in June 1998 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs D was sold the PPI at the same time that she applied for the card in the store.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs D has said, but Ive decided  not to uphold her complaint.  I will 
explain why.
The card application  form does set out the PPI as a choice, which you make  by ticking and 
signing a box saying  you want PPI. I can see that Mrs D has signed this. So I think  Mrs D 
would have known  she had a choice.
Mrs D says she was told she would get a discount if she took the card including PPI. But that 
doesnt mean she didnt have a choice about taking  it. It would have  been  up to her to 
decide whether  the PPI was worth  it overall.
It doesnt seem that FICL recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Ds 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Mrs D to decide  whether it was suitable.
However FICL did need to give Mrs D clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have  clear evidence it did do this properly. The form itself didnt 
give all the necessary information and I dont know if she was given other detail  in the shop.  
So Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a difference.  But in 
Mrs Ds circumstances at the time,  even  if shed been given all the necessary information, I 
dont think its likely  to have made a significant difference  to her decision.  I say this because  
its fairly likely  that the PPI could have paid out for longer than her full employer sick pay 
lasted. And it would have  been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. And 
she could have kept any savings in reserve for longer. Also it doesnt look like shed have 
been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.  So, overall, the PPI is likely 
still to have seemed  potentially  useful.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint.
Ref: DRN48711362Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4871136