K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr E says FICL mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 2004.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr E disagreed with our adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mr E aware  the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before adding the
policy to his card. I cant be certain  what was said at the time Mr E applied for his card and
PPI but FICL has provided a copy of the available paperwork. The application form Mr E 
completed when  applied for his card had a separate section for PPI which  Mr E signed 
separately to take the policy. Mr E also signed the application form in agreement with the 
selections that had been made on it. With this in mind I think  FICL made it clear that Mr E 
didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose  to take it out  although I can understand 
why he may not remember  this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr E so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for him. But it
did have to make sure Mr E got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  he had of making his
repayments which may have included sick pay from his employer. But the PPI would have  
paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr E would have been  entitled to.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Es circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN47164412Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4716441