K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains, on behalf  of herself  and her late husband Mr S, that Union Income  Benefit 
Holdings Limited (UIB) mis sold them life insurance cover and later misled  them  regarding  
their cover.
background
In 2008 Mr S purchased a life insurance policy for him and his wife on a non-advised basis  
through UIB. Sadly, Mr S passed  away in 2019.  So, Mrs S tried to make a claim on the 
policy. But Mrs S was told that because Mr S was over 70 years old when he died, he was 
no longer covered by the policy.
But Mrs S said she didnt  remember ever seeing  anything detailing this term. Mrs S didnt 
think this was fair and felt the policy had been mis sold,  so she complained to UIB. 
UIB didnt  uphold Mrs Ss complaint. It said that when  it wrote  to Mr S in February 2008 with 
details of how to apply for the cover, the application document  clearly  stated the cover  would 
end after the age of 70. Mrs S applied successfully, and it wrote to him a few weeks later 
enclosing the schedule of insurance and policy summary. UIB noted that the policy  summary 
document also made clear that the cover would  end after the age of 70. UIB said Mr S then 
had a further 30 days to review  the documents and cancel the policy if he wished. So, UIB 
felt this term had been  made clear at the point of sale.
Mrs S told us the documentation theyd  later gotten in the post about the policy was 
confusing because it said Mr S was still a beneficiary after he turned 70.
UIB told us an incorrect certificate of insurance  had been sent to Mr and Mrs S in 2016  
including Mr Ss name as a life assured (it should have been just Mrs S who had not yet 
turned 70). But UIB noted Mr S contacted them a month later to ask about this and was told 
he wasnt covered. UIB also told us the certificate of life insurance issued in 2018  was clear 
that Mrs S remained the only life assured  on the policy. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as they found the term had been made  clear.  
Mrs S didnt agree, so the matters  been  passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry for Mrs Ss loss and would like to pass on my condolences  to her and her 
family. I appreciate that uncertainty about insurance  would add additional stress to an 
already very difficult time.
Im aware Mrs S doesnt remember receiving any documents detailing this exclusion. 
But UIB has shown  us the application form it sent to Mr S, and given Mr S successfully 
applied for the policy Im satisfied he received this. And I think  this form is clear that the 
cover ends at the age of 70. UIB has also sent us copy of the 2008 policy summary 
document, which it says was sent to Mr A after he took out the policy.  This was sent in the 
same way as the certificates of insurance, which Mrs S has told us they received. So, I think  
its likely  Mr S also received this summary document.  And again,  Im satisfied the key facts  
Ref: DRN48464212are clear  that cover ends at 70 years of age. So, I do think  UIB made  Mr and Mrs S aware of 
this exclusion at the point of sale. 
But I think Mrs Ss main  point here is that they then received misleading communications 
which led her to think Mr S was covered. In particular, after Mr S turned 70, they received a 
certificate of insurance from UIB that still listed him as a life assured. Mr S was clearly  no 
longer covered by the policy at this time and so I agree this was a mistake.  
Ive listened to the call Mr S made  to UIB shortly after receiving this documentation. In this 
call he asks about his cover.  Im aware  Mrs S has some specific concerns about the call 
between Mr S and UIB, in particular that the language used by the UIB representative was 
confusing. For example,  UIB called the policy a joint policy  when only Mrs S was covered by 
this time. Mrs S also observed Mr S had hearing problems. But having  listened to the call, 
Im satisfied UIB made it clear to Mr S that he was no longer covered by the policy and that 
only Mrs S was. And at no point  did Mr S indicate  he didnt hear or didnt understand what he 
was being told. So, I do think UIB corrected its mistake and made it clear Mr S was no longer 
a life assured.  Ive also seen the certificates UIB sent Mr and Mrs S in the two years before 
Mr S passed   and these  clearly stated Mrs S was the only life assured.
I appreciate this will come as disappointment  to Mrs S, but I dont think the policy  was 
mis sold.  And while there was a misleading  communication about the cover in 2016,  Im 
satisfied this was corrected at the time.  So, I dont  think UIB did anything  substantially wrong 
here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Jade Cunningham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4846421