K822xcomplaint
Mr C has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a credit  card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr C took out the PPI in 2007 at the same time as he applied  for the credit card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr C is unhappy with a phone call that he received from BoS when it was looking at his 
complaint. He feels BoS was trying to get him to answer its questions in a certain way. Id 
like to reassure Mr C that his phone conversation with BoS hasnt had any particular  
influence over this decision and that I have  looked closely  at all the available  evidence.
Mr C says he wasnt aware  he had the PPI and that the wording  on the paperwork was 
legalistic jargon that he didnt understand. Looking at the application  form, I can see that 
there was a separate section for PPI and that Mr  C has requested the policy by ticking  a box 
in that section next to the where it says: I wish to purchase Credit Card Repayment  Cover 
(tick box) .
The sale happened a long time ago and Im not persuaded that Mr C has any clear  
recollection of the sale, which would not be surprising. Ive thought  very carefully  about  what 
Mr C has said.  But looking at the evidence, I think Mr C would have known from the wording 
and layout of the form that the PPI was optional. He could have left the box blank if he didnt 
want the policy. It seems to me that Mr C decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt  have to, 
even if he no longer remembers doing so.
BoS didnt advise Mr C to take out the policy, so it didnt  need  to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide Mr C with enough information for him to make an informed 
decision about whether or not the policy was right for him.
Mr C would have received 26 weeks sick pay from his job if he was off sick. But the policy 
would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer  than he would have received 
full pay for. And Mr C didnt have  any savings to fall back on. Mr C has said he had no 
worries at the time about his health  or losing his job. But insurance is designed to cover  
unforeseen events.  So I think he could have  benefitted from the policy  at what  would have 
been a difficult  time.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much  information as it should have about the policy,  
particularly about  the things it didnt  cover. But Mr C wasnt affected by any of those things.
Ref: DRN42479042As I think  that Mr C had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think  that further 
information would have caused  him to change his mind.
This means  that I dont think that the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt 
have to refund everything Mr C paid for it. But Bank of Scotland  plc has already offered to 
give Mr C back  some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything  more.
Bank of Scotland plc will make arrangements to pay Mr C now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4247904