K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about delays and poor service they received from Santander UK Plc 
in relation to their remortgage.
background
On 8 June 2018, Mr and Mrs Gs broker submitted their mortgage application to Santander. 
Mr and Mrs G say that their fixed rate product with their previous lender  was about to end 
and that they wanted to complete the remortgage by 1 July 2018, in order to avoid paying 
the standard variable rate. 
On 15 June 2018, Santander made its underwriting decision and instructed a surveyor.  The 
valuation was to take place on 25 June  2018 but that couldnt  go ahead, as the surveyor  was 
ill. The valuation was rearranged for 16 July 2018  but a second  firm of surveyors  was 
instructed instead  so that this could  be dealt with sooner.
On 9 July 2018,  an external valuation took place but the value wasnt  within  the range of 
tolerance of the estimated value, so an internal  valuation  was arranged. On 20 July 2018, 
the valuation took place  and Santander  issued its offer of mortgage  on the same day. 
Mr and Mrs G say that their solicitor didnt receive  the offer until 29 July 2018. 
On 8 August  2018, the remortgage was completed. 
Mr and Mrs G say Santander  delayed  getting a valuation and there  was confusion about 
when the valuation would take place. Mr and Mrs G say that if theyd known about the delays  
they could have asked their previous  lender for a lower rate for an interim period or accepted 
a slightly higher fixed rate.
Mr and Mrs G want  compensation  of £525.28,  which  they say is the additional payment they 
made on their previous  mortgage after the expected  completion date of 1 July 2018. 
In response to Mr and Mrs Gs complaint, Santander paid them  compensation of £100. It 
said that it wasnt responsible for Mr and Mrs G remaining on the standard variable rate for 
longer than expected and it dealt with the matter within  reasonable timescales
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Santander  was at fault. He said that the time taken to 
complete the remortgage was within standard times in the industry  and that Mr and Mrs Gs 
broker should have  managed their expectations.  The adjudicator said that their broker  could 
have got updates. 
The adjudicator said that there was delay in getting the valuation, as the first surveyor was 
ill. But Mr and Mrs G wouldnt  have been able to complete the remortgage by 1 July 2018,  
even if that delay hadnt happened.  The adjudicator said that Santander  issued the offer on 
20 July 2018 and it wasnt clear to him why Mr and Mrs G didnt receive it until 29 July 2018. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with the adjudicator  and provided a response  from their broker. 
The broker  said it was reasonable to expect  to complete the remortgage  by the end of the 
month. He said that Santanders policy is that it doesnt allow  brokers  to contact valuers 
directly, so he couldnt get updates  about the valuation. The broker  said that he chased 
Santander and asked it to expedite matters  and wasnt given information about  the 
difficulties. He said that he got an electronic copy of the offer on 20 July 2018. The broker  
said that Santander didnt provide information  about  what was going  on. 
Ref: DRN44243632The adjudicator considered the response  but didnt change his view.  As there  was no 
agreement between the parties,  the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Santander didnt  agree to expedite its process or guarantee  that its offer of mortgage would 
be available by a certain date. Given that they made  their application on 8 June 2018, I think  
it was unlikely that Mr and Mrs G would have been in a position to complete the new 
mortgage on 2 July 2018, which was the next working day after their previous fixed  rate 
ended.
Santander clearly  had some difficulty getting a valuation but the time from application  to offer 
was six weeks, which was reasonable. It would have been better  if Santander had updated 
Mr and Mrs G or their broker about  its progress but I dont think  that would have altered the 
outcome here. 
Mr and Mrs G say that if they had known  there  would be delays they would have asked their 
previous borrower  for a lower rate for an interim period or accepted a slightly  higher fixed 
rate. I dont think that Mr and Mrs Gs previous borrower would have been  willing  to 
negotiate the rate that Mr and Mrs G were contractually obliged  to pay. It was, of course,  
open to Mr and Mrs G to decide  to take up another fixed rate at any time but I appreciate 
that doing so may have caused  them  to lose fees. 
Im satisfied that Santander issued its offer on 20 July 2018. Mr and Mrs Gs broker  says he 
received it electronically  on that date. Its not clear to me why Mr and Mrs G and their 
solicitor received it much later but Santander  isnt responsible for any failures of the postal 
system.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs G but I dont  think that Santander treated them  unfairly in 
relation to the time it took to deal with their mortgage  application. I think that Santander could 
have kept them better  informed  but the compensation of £100 its already paid is fair in 
relation to that and there are no grounds on which to direct  it to pay any more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 May 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4424363