K821x#15complaint
Miss J has complained about a late payment marker  added  to her credit  file by NRAM 
Limited.
background
Miss J has a mortgage account with NRAM. Rather  than pay by direct debit, Miss J makes 
manual payments to her mortgage account.  
In August  2018  Miss J made her August 2018 mortgage payment via internet bank transfer.  
NRAM contacted  Miss J on 6 September 2018 to say it hadnt received the payment. After 
speaking to Miss J the payment was traced.  
Miss J made payment for October and November  2018  via the online portal.
On 4 January  2019 Miss J made a payment of £200  by bank transfer for her December 2018 
payment. Miss J acknowledges she was a few days late with the payment but spoke to 
NRAM about this. 
Miss J says she was told that, because  shed made  a partial  payment within five working 
days of 31 December 2018, it was likely this would not impact her credit file. Thats because 
the account would not be in a full months arrears. Another payment was made on 7 January 
2019 to complete the payment for December 2018.
About a week later Miss J was telephoned by NRAM to say that the payment for December  
2018 hadnt been received. Miss J checked her bank account and saw that the payments 
had been returned. She then made the payments again but NRAM added a missed  payment 
marker to Miss Js credit  file. She complained to NRAM.
NRAM said that the payments couldnt  be allocated to Miss Js account  because she hadnt 
used the account number  as the payment reference. So NRAM refused to remove the late 
payment marker.
Miss J complained to us. After initially supporting NRAMs version  of events, upon receiving 
further information from Miss J, the investigator thought  the complaint should be upheld. He 
was satisfied that Miss J had previously made  payments  where, although shed included the 
account number  in the payment information,  it wasnt the reference number. 
And although NRAM had found  this to be a problem in August/September  2018, it hadnt  
explained this to Miss J. In the circumstances, he thought  NRAM should  remove the marker. 
He asked NRAM to remove the late payment marker  and pay Miss J £100 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
NRAM disagreed with the investigators findings. It said that the information given by its 
agent on 4 January 2019 was incorrect and that it doesnt allow any tolerance  period for 
payments to be made. NRAM  also said that payments  for October  and November 2018 had 
been received  with the correct reference number quoted. NRAM refused to remove the 
credit marker, as the December 2018 payment wasnt received within the month  it was due, 
Because NRAM didnt  agree with the investigators findings, the complaint has been  referred  
to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN46307812my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same reasons.
Its not disputed  that Miss J made  her December 2018 late, in early January 2019.  Ordinarily 
I would agree with NRAM that it should  allow a late payment marker in these circumstances. 
But there are several reasons why I think a fair outcome would be for the marker on Miss Js 
credit file to be removed.
First, Miss J had used  this payment method in the past. NRAM had a problem with 
identifying the payment  for August 2018  because the account number hadnt been  used  as 
the reference number for the payment. NRAM spoke to Miss J about not receiving her 
payment on 6 September 2018,  and during the call, the agent  spoke directly to the finance 
team. 
The adviser was told by the finance  team that the payment hadnt been allocated  to the 
account because  the reference  number wasnt the account number. So NRAM was aware 
that this was the issue with the payee information  provided by Miss J, but  crucially  the 
agent didnt pass  this information  on to Miss J.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied Miss J couldnt have known that this was an issue. Im 
satisfied that if Miss J had been  told this, shed have  changed the payee details in her online 
banking and put the account number as the reference.
NRAM says that the next two payments for October and November 2018 were made 
correctly, using the account  number  as the reference. But Ive seen Miss Js payment 
instruction from her online bank account.  This shows  that the payee name is the account  
number, the account details are correct for NRAM and the payee  reference is Monthly 
Mortgage Payment.   So Im satisfied that this information was also used for October  and 
November 2018  without any problem in allocating the payments to the account. 
I conclude this because  there is no logical reason why Miss J would  have changed the 
payee details  for those  two months  and then changed them  back again for the December 
2018 payment.  Miss J hadnt been  told by NRAM that the issue  was with the payee 
information, so she wouldnt have been  aware she needed to change this.
Miss J was told on 4 January 2019 that she had a few days  leeway to make her December 
2018 payment  and that this wouldnt be reported on her credit file because she wouldnt be a 
full month  in arrears.  NRAM now says this information was incorrect. But I dont think  its fair, 
in all the circumstances, for NRAM now to backtrack on what  Miss J was told.
Given all the above, Im satisfied the complaint should be upheld because:
NRAM didnt tell Miss J that she needed to use the account number as the payee 
reference;
the evidence  is persuasive that payments for October and November 2018 were 
made using the same  information Miss J used for her August 2018 and December 
2018 payment;  and
Ref: DRN46307813NRAM gave Miss J incorrect information  about a grace period for making her 
December 2018 mortgage payment and wrongly told her that a late payment wouldnt 
affect her credit  file.
Im satisfied NRAM should also pay Miss J compensation for distress and inconvenience.  It 
is unacceptable for NRAM to give Miss J information  about  not registering information  on her 
credit file which is plainly wrong. Im satisfied that this has caused considerable upset to 
Miss J for which an award of compensation is warranted. Im satisfied £100 is fair and 
reasonable for this.
Now that Miss J knows what  information should  be on the payee information,  and that there 
is no leeway for late payments, she will be aware  that payments  need  to be made  in the 
month in which  they are due. One way of avoiding this situation arising again would be for 
Miss J to set up a direct debit with NRAM for her mortgage payments. Then there  should  be 
no future problems in allocating payment to the account.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, NRAM Limited  must  
remove the late payment  marker on Miss Js credit  file for the December 2018 payment. 
NRAM Limited must also pay Miss J £100 compensation for trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4630781