K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mr G bought the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a credit card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr Gs credit card application had a section  for PPI, which briefly  explained  what it was for 
and what it cost. Then there were two tick boxes  to choose from: one if he wanted to buy 
PPI, and one if he didnt want it. Both options were equally  prominent.  The box for PPI was 
ticked, and Mr G signed the application and returned it by post.  So I think that Nationwide 
made Mr G aware he had a choice  about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the 
time  even  if, understandably, he no longer remembers  doing so after so long.
Nationwide didnt give Mr G personalised advice about taking  PPI, so they didnt have to 
check if it was right for him. They did have to give Mr G enough information to decide  if the 
PPI was right for him.
Its possible that the information Nationwide  gave Mr G about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, Mr G chose to take out the policy  - so it looks  like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time, it doesnt look like 
he was affected  by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. Mr G said he had some  
standard sick pay and savings, though  he couldnt remember  how much. Given how long the 
PPI would pay out for in any one claim, its most  likely that it covered him for longer, and it 
paid out on top. And Mr G doesnt  seem to have had any other cover in case he lost his job. 
So the policy  could  have been useful for Mr G in case something  went  wrong. And so I dont 
think better information about  the PPI was likely  to have  put him off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN47008512my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4700851