K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains the vehicle he acquired  on a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (trading as Volkswagen  Finance) was not fit for 
purpose. He wants  to reject the vehicle.
background
In May 2015  Mr M bought a car under a three-year hire purchase  agreement financed by 
Volkswagen Finance. The car was brand new, with zero miles on the clock.  There were  no 
issues until after the car was serviced  in November 2016, when a software update was 
installed to rectify the emission of nitric oxide and nitrogen dioxide (collectively  NOx 
emissions). After that, the exhaust  gas recirculation (ERG) valve  failed. Mr M says this had 
to be replaced five times under  warranty,  between December  2016 and October  2017,  
before the fault stopped  recurring. In the meantime, he was without his car, sometimes for a 
lengthy period,  and the courtesy  car he was given was not of the same standard.
Mr M complained, and said that the car had not been fit for purpose when it was sold.  He 
asked to replace  the car, but Volkswagen Finance did not agree with him. It said that the 
problem had been resolved, and the resale  value of the car had not been  affected. Mr M 
could trade  the car in if he was not content with it, but it would not refund  what  hed paid. 
Being dissatisfied with this response, Mr M brought this complaint to our Service in May 
2018. (In that month  he also made the final payment under the hire purchase agreement  and 
became owner  of the car.)
Mr M said that as a result of the five repairs, he had been without his car for a total of 163 
days. He argued  that the underlying fault must  have  been present  at the point of sale and 
then manifested  itself in due course.
Volkswagen Finance said that the EGR  valve fault was not related to the NOx issue  or to the 
software update.  The fault had been fixed in October 2017  and had not happened again  
since, so there was no reason to replace the car now. It had provided  Mr M with a courtesy  
car while the car was in the garage. The original software had only affected the NOx 
emission levels during  a test drive in controlled laboratory conditions,  and not under normal 
driving conditions.  There were no regulations limiting the amount of NOx emissions  that cars 
may produce  during normal driving (as opposed  to in laboratory  conditions), and no 
evidence that Volkswagens cars emit more NOx emissions than other cars. The car was 
safe, fit for purpose,  and of satisfactory  quality.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. She said there was no evidence that the EGR 
valve fault was the result  of the software  update, or that any other  problems had been 
caused by the NOx issue.  So she was not persuaded that the car had been faulty at the 
point of sale. There had therefore been  no breach  of contract  or misrepresentation  at the 
point of sale.
Mr M did not accept that decision. He said that the car had been fine until the software 
update, by which time he had driven it 20,000 miles, and then the EGR valve had failed 
shortly afterwards. Each time it had failed after that, it had been after the car had been 
driven only a few hundred miles.  So he concluded  that the fault was not the result of wear  
and tear, but must  have  been present all along. On the last occasion,  the car was in the 
garage for three months, from July to October. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN45442562my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence I have  seen  shows  that the car was in the garage  for 133 days,  not 163, and 
the ERG  valve was replaced 4 times, not 5. However, this has not affected the outcome of 
this complaint.
Under a hire purchase  agreement, the finance  provider supplies the goods to the consumer 
and retains ownership  until all payments have been  made. This means  that Volkswagen 
Finance can be held liable for the quality  of the car at the point of supply, not just for 
problems with the finance agreement itself. However, this rule only applies to faults which 
were present  or developing at the point of supply, not faults  which arise subsequently, for 
example due to wear  and tear, or misuse  of the goods.
I accept, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, Volkswagen Finances assurance 
that the NOx emissions were only affected  when  the cars were driven in test conditions and 
not when they were  driven in ordinary  driving  conditions, such  as when its customers were 
driving them.
Since I have found  that the emissions were not affected when Mr M was driving the car, and 
the cars  performance  was not affected  by the NOx emissions issue, I dont think I can say 
that any failure to comply  with regulations about NOx emissions in test conditions  (if there  
was such a failure) means that the car was not fit for purpose  or of satisfactory quality.
However, I think the NOx emissions  issue might still be relevant if the software update  which 
was installed to remedy that issue turned out to be the cause of the ERG valve  failure.
There were no problems  with the ERG valve before the software update  was installed. But 
only one month after the software update, the valve failed. The timing  supports Mr Ms 
inference that the software update was responsible for the valve failure. That inference is 
further supported  by the fact that the valve  failed  again and again after it was replaced. That 
a replacement valve could  fail so soon after being  replaced would suggest that the problem  
was not caused simply  by ordinary wear and tear, but by something  else.  So I asked 
Volkswagen Finance if it had ever identified the cause of the failure, and why the final repair 
had succeeded  when previous repairs had failed.
Volkswagen Finance said that simply replacing the ERG valve had been  the wrong solution. 
It said that the problem  had not been caused by the software update,  but that the manner in 
which the car had been driven  had caused  a misreading in the vehicles fault detection  
systems. Therefore the final and successful repair had included another software  update, 
this time to the fault diagnostic software.  This had enabled the vehicle to more  accurately 
determine the position of the ERG valve (which was also replaced  again). The fault has not 
recurred since, so I infer that this was the correct repair solution.
In my view that answer supports Volkswagen Finances argument that the problem was not 
the result  of the original software  update,  and therefore  was not ultimately  caused  by the 
issue with the NOx emissions.  It follows that I am not satisfied that the failure of the ERG 
valve was caused  by a fault which existed when the car was sold in 2015.
Ref: DRN45442563Finally, a courtesy car doesnt have  to be identical or broadly similar to the car it is replacing, 
because it is only intended  to be a temporary  replacement. It is unfortunate that Mr M 
needed a courtesy  car for such  a long time, but I dont think that Volkswagen Finance did 
anything wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4544256