K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that Creative  Finance  Corp  Ltd (trading as MotorKitty)  has treated him 
unfairly by repossessing  his motor vehicle. He says the correct procedures  werent  followed 
before the repossession,  that Creative has failed to pay him the true value of the vehicle, 
and that he is still receiving penalty  notices  due to the change  of ownership not being 
notified to the DVLA.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
September 2020. An extract from this is attached  and forms part of this final decision,  so 
I will not repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold part of the complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Both Creative and 
Mr F have  provided us with some  comments.  Although I am only summarising  here what 
both parties have said, I have considered their entire responses  carefully  before  writing this 
decision.
Mr F has questioned whether Creative acted in accordance with the agreement he signed 
when it repossessed his vehicle.  He has again said the Default Sums Notice  was only issued 
on 10 May, and so Creative should  have waited  14 days from then before repossessing his 
vehicle.
Creative doesnt agree with my provisional  findings. In particular it says;
Creative has never said that Mr F should liaise directly with the auction house 
however he is within  his rights to liaise with the DVLA  which once the vehicle  was 
recovered he could  have contacted to inform them he was no longer in possession  of 
the vehicle.
DVLA refuse to liaise with Creative as it is not the registered keeper of the vehicle, 
only Mr F can tell DVLA that he is no longer in possession of the vehicle. 
Furthermore Mr F did not require the V5 document to liaise with the DVLA.  
Regardless, had Mr F required any further information from the V5 Creative would 
have happily provided this including the option to do a 3 way call with the DVLA  
should this have been requested.
Mr F at no point  tried to contact the DVLA to tell them he is no longer in possession 
of the vehicle or / has not provided  any evidence of trying to contact the DVLA.
Creative has no control or say in the sales process the auction house  uses to sell a 
vehicle. It further  has no visibility on the purchaser  of the vehicle as this process is 
governed entirely by the auction  house end to end.
Creative has notified the debt recovery company however that company will not deal 
with Creative without Mr Fs express authority.
Creative thinks it is clear from Mr Fs payment behaviour that he had no intention  of 
paying the loan back. Creative incurred additional costs as a result including the 
underwriting process, agent fees during underwriting the loan, document  sworn fees 
and also the cost of borrowing which Creative incurs  through a debt fund. With all this 
in mind and considering the opportunity cost of lending elsewhere the company is at 
a big loss on this account.
Creative questions  why a compensation payment of £150  is appropriate,  bearing  in 
mind the loss the company has encountered  on underwriting a loan in good faith to a 
customer who refused to pay it back.
Ref: DRN41033682my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im not persuaded 
that I should change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
As I explained in my provisional decision the original default notice was issued  on 26 April.  
The notice that Mr F has referred to, the Default Sums Notice,  was issued when additional 
charges were added  to his account  it increased  the amount of his defaulted balance. But 
I still think that notice  supplemented,  rather than replaced, the default notice issued on 
26 April. It was that notice  that started  the 14 day period, and so Creative acted fairly in 
repossessing Mr Fs car on 10 May.
I have thought carefully about what Creative  has said in regard to the re-registration of the 
keeper of the vehicle it repossessed. But I remain of the opinion that activity wasnt  the 
responsibility of Mr F. Creative  held the V5 document. And once it had activated the bill of 
sale it became the legal owner of the vehicle. So once the vehicle had been repossessed 
Mr F had no responsibility for the vehicle. I dont think it was for him to notify those changes 
to the DVLA  that was something  that Creative needed  to do. Although  Mr F could have  told 
the DVLA he was no longer  responsible,  he would also have needed to provide the details of 
the new keeper.  That wasnt  information  he had, or had any rights to have under the relevant 
data protection  regulations. So it is unreasonable to expect him to notify the DVLA of the 
change of keeper.
Ultimately the auction house acted on behalf  of Creative. It seems  to me that it falls between  
those two parties to ensure that the sale of the vehicle was correctly recorded and notified  to 
the DVLA. And that is what I require Creative to do in accordance with this final decision. If 
any information or authority is required by the DVLA from Mr F either Creative or the DVLA  
can approach Mr F for his assistance.
I understand that since my provisional  decision was issued  Mr F has continued  to be chased 
by the debt recovery company for payment relating to the penalty charge incurred by his 
vehicle after it had been repossessed by Creative.  I can appreciate  how distressing that 
must be for Mr F. I understand that the debt recovery company requires Mr Fs authority to 
deal with Creative about this debt. Creative should  liaise with the debt recovery company to 
understand how it wants that authority  to be given and provide  Mr F with the appropriate 
means of doing  so.
I havent found that Creative had any reason to doubt that Mr F would be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable manner. But for the same  reasons I dont think  Creative  can reasonably  
say that Mr F had no intention of repaying the loan from the outset. He gave  Creative 
security on the loan in the form of his motor  vehicle  and I think  it likely that the value of that 
vehicle to Mr F outweighed the simple monetary value that Creative realised by selling it at 
auction.
Ref: DRN41033683But the compensation I am asking Creative to pay has no relation to the act of giving the 
loan to Mr F, or his failure to make  a repayment.  Nor does it relate to what  I have found to be 
the reasonable decision that Creative made  to repossess  Mr Fs vehicle. But Creative failed 
to ensure that the repossession of the vehicle ended Mr Fs liability for any penalty charges 
that the vehicle incurred  in the future. And as a result Mr F has faced debt collectors  visiting 
him at his home.  It is for the trouble and upset that this has caused him that I am directing 
Creative to pay Mr F the sum of £150.
So, in summary,  for the reasons given above  and in my attached provisional decision;
I think it was reasonable for Creative  to repossess Mr Fs vehicle on 10 May 2018.
The evidence I have  seen suggests Creative  has accounted fairly for the proceeds of 
the sale of Mr Fs vehicle.
I dont think Creative  treated Mr F fairly  in regard to making the changes needed to 
the registered keeper of the vehicle after it had been sold at auction.
Creative didnt lend to Mr F in an irresponsible manner.
putting things right
As explained in my provisional decision,  I dont think Creative has treated Mr F fairly in the 
way the sale of his vehicle  was notified to the DVLA. So Creative should;
Continue to liaise with the debt recovery company so as to take responsibility  for the 
debt currently owed by Mr F in relation to the penalty  charge issued after the sale of the 
vehicle.
Arrange for the registered keeper to be correctly  recorded at the DVLA
Pay Mr F £150 for the trouble and upset hes been caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct Creative Finance Corp Ltd to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41033684EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr F complains that Creative Finance Corp Ltd (trading as MotorKitty) has treated  him unfairly  by 
repossessing his motor  vehicle. He says the correct procedures werent  followed before the 
repossession, that Creative has failed  to pay him the true value of the vehicle, and that he is still 
receiving penalty notices  due to the change of ownership  not being  notified to the DVLA.
background
The repossession that Mr F is complaining about took place very shortly after the loan was agreed. 
So in addition to Mr Fs complaint above I think it appropriate that I also consider whether it was 
reasonable for Creative to agree the loan in the first place. Given  the proximity  of the two events 
I think  the granting of the loan has a direct bearing  on the complaint that Mr F made.
Mr F was given a loan of £1,500 by Creative in February 2018. The loan was due to be repaid  in 
twelve monthly instalments  and was secured  against Mr Fs motor vehicle.  Mr F found it difficult  to 
repay the loan. His first repayment was made eight days late. And he then failed to make any 
subsequent repayments. As a result Creative defaulted  the loan, and took possession of Mr Fs motor  
vehicle on 10 May 2018.
Mr Fs motor vehicle was sold at auction. The proceeds of that sale were  insufficient to cover the 
outstanding balance on Mr Fs loan and so no proceeds from the sale were returned to Mr F.
Since the vehicle was repossessed and sold Mr F has received a penalty notice for a traffic offence. 
That offence  occurred  in June 2018 so shouldnt be the responsibility of Mr F. But it appears that the 
sale of the vehicle was not notified to the DVLA and so Mr F remained the registered keeper.
Mr Fs complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think  Creative  had done 
anything wrong in repossessing Mr Fs vehicle,  or in accounting for its sale. But she thought it was 
Creatives responsibility to ensure that the sale of the vehicle was correctly  notified to the DVLA. So 
she asked Creative to ensure that notification was completed  correctly, and said it should pay Mr F 
£150 for the trouble  and upset hed been caused.
Creative didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice from the time.
I think  there are four matters for me to decide in this complaint;
Was it reasonable  for Creative to repossess Mr Fs vehicle?
Has Creative fairly  accounted for the sale proceeds of the vehicle?
Should Creative have done  more  to ensure the registered keeper of the vehicle was updated?
Did Creative lend to Mr F in an irresponsible manner?
I will deal with each of these  matters in turn.
Ref: DRN41033685Was it reasonable  for Creative to repossess Mr Fs vehicle?
When he took the loan, Mr F signed  a Bill of Sale relating  to his vehicle as security  for the loan.  That 
document meant that, should Mr F default on his loan repayments, Creative was entitled to take 
possession of the vehicle.
I can see that Mr F was late making his first repayment in March 2018. He then failed to make any 
subsequent repayments. This resulted in Creative  starting the process of placing Mr F in default later 
that month. Creative has shown us that it sent the following letters;
08 April  Payment reminder letter
15 April  Demand for payment letter
19 April  Notice  of Sums  in Arrears letter
26 April  Default Notice
03 May  Default Notice reminder
10 May  Default Sum Notice
I think  it was reasonable for Creative  to issue a default notice to Mr F on 26 April. By then his payment 
was more than two weeks  late, and it doesnt seem he had made any contact with Creative to explain 
why his repayment hadnt  been made despite the reminder letters  hed been sent. Those letters  had 
been sent to the address  where Mr F still resides, and from where  his car was repossessed.
The agreement that Mr F had signed allowed Creative  to take steps to repossess  the vehicle  no 
earlier than 14 days after the default had been issued. So it was reasonable for Creative to have 
instructed that repossession to take place on 10 May. I have  noted that Mr F has said he received the 
Default Sum Notice on the same day. But that notice was only issued since charges had increase  the 
amount of his default balance.  It supplemented, rather than replaced, the default  notice that had been 
issued on 26 April.
So taking all the evidence into consideration I dont  think Creative acted unreasonably by 
repossessing Mr Fs vehicle on 10 May 2018.
Has Creative  fairly accounted for the sale proceeds of the vehicle?
Creative sold Mr Fs vehicle using an auction company. From my experience  that is the usual way 
that repossessed vehicles  are disposed  of. So I dont think it was unreasonable of Creative to sell 
Mr Fs vehicle by that method.
Creative has provided us with a copy of the sale information it received from the auction company. 
That showed  that the amount it received for the vehicle, after the auction companys  costs had been 
taken, was £1,625. That was less than the balance outstanding on Mr Fs loan and so I think  it was 
reasonable that Creative didnt return any proceeds of the sale to Mr F.
Should Creative have done more to ensure the registered keeper of the vehicle  was updated?
When Creative repossessed Mr Fs vehicle  it assumed ownership of the car. It already held the V5 
registration document. That document would be needed to advise the DVLA that the vehicle had been 
sold and so had a new registered  keeper.  So there was no reasonable way for Mr F to advise the 
DVLA that he was no longer  the registered keeper  of the vehicle. 
Creative has said that it was not its responsibility to contact the DVLA   it says it was the 
responsibility of the auction  house and Mr F should liaise with the auction  house to ensure the 
necessary registration changes  are notified.
But I disagree. Mr F had no relationship whatsoever with the auction company. The auction house 
was acting  on behalf of Creative. And whilst I can see that there might  be some dispute about where 
the DVLA  notification responsibility falls, I can say with confidence that it should not fall on Mr F.
Ref: DRN41033686I understand that Mr F has been sent a penalty notice in relation to a traffic offence  committed  in the 
vehicle after it had been repossessed and sold by the auction company. And at this stage  the penalty 
charge has been passed  to a debt collection company for recovery.  Our adjudicator will send a copy  
of the latest  notification to Creative who should contact the debt recovery  company and take 
responsibility for the debt on behalf of Mr F until the sale of the vehicle has been correctly  registered  
with the DVLA.
Creative should liaise  with the auction company to ensure that the registered keeper of the vehicle is 
correctly recorded to reflect  the sale.  It should ensure that the change  of registered keeper correctly 
reflects the date on which the vehicle was sold.
I have no doubts that this matter has caused trouble and upset  to Mr F at a time when  his finances 
were under pressure,  and he had lost the use of his vehicle. So I intend to direct Creative to pay Mr F 
the sum of £150 to reflect  that inconvenience.
Did Creative  lend to Mr F in an irresponsible  manner
Weve set out our approach  to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website and Ive 
kept this in mind  while deciding this part of Mr Fs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Creative gave this loan to Mr F required it to carry  out a 
reasonable and proportionate  assessment  of whether  he could afford  to repay  what he owed  in a 
sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Creative  had to think  about  whether  repaying the credit 
sustainably would cause  difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr F. In practice this meant that 
Creative had to ensure  that making the repayments  wouldnt cause Mr F undue difficulty  or adverse 
consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Creative to simply  think  about  the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any repayments on Mr F. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. In general, 
what constitutes a proportionate  affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial 
history, current  situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the 
amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended  period).  
There may also be other factors which  could  influence  how detailed  a proportionate check shouldve 
been for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of borrower vulnerability 
and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about 
whether Creative did what it needed to before agreeing to lend to Mr F.
Ref: DRN41033687We asked  Creative  for details  of the checks it did before lending to Mr F. It hasnt provided us with an 
overview of its checks,  but it has sent us copies  of Mr Fs payslips, showing his income, for the three 
months before the loan. And it holds copies  of Mr Fs bank statements covering the period from 
mid-September until the middle of December  2017.
Mr F was entering  into a significant commitment with Creative. He would  need to make monthly  
repayments for a year on a loan that was secured on his car. So I would expect that Creative  would 
want to gather, and independently check, some detailed  information  about  Mr Fs financial  
circumstances before  it agreed to lend to him. I think that by asking  Mr F for copies of his bank 
statements it would have been able to form a reasonable picture of his finances.  So I think  the checks 
Creative did here were  proportionate.  
But simply performing  proportionate  checks isnt enough. A lender also needs to react appropriately to 
the information shown by those checks.
Ive carefully considered the information shown on Mr Fs bank statements around the time that he 
borrowed from Creative. Mr Fs bank statements dont  show any clear  evidence that he would be 
unlikely to be able to repay this lending  in a sustainable manner. His bank statements  dont show any 
evidence of serious  financial  problems such as excessive  use of an overdraft, multiple other credit 
repayments, or regular unpaid transactions. I think it would have been reasonable for Creative to 
conclude that the loan would be sustainably  affordable for Mr F.
So I dont currently think Creative was irresponsible to agree to give this loan to Mr F.
Ref: DRN4103368