K822xcomplaint
Ms H complained that AA Underwriting Limited  wrongly treated her as having made a claim 
under her motor insurance policy.
background
Ms H was abroad when  her car keys were stolen. Her car was parked at the airport in the 
UK. She contacted AA Underwriting who confirmed that her policy covered changing her 
cars locks,  reprogramming it and replacing the key. For ease Ill refer to this from now on as 
changing the locks.
According to Ms H, AA Underwriting said that they couldnt come out to change her cars 
locks at the airport, but if she could get her car home they would change them at her home 
and wouldnt  treat that as a claim on the policy. They also said that it wouldnt affect her no 
claims discount (NCD). So Ms H arranged to get her car home, which  wasnt  local to the 
airport. AA Underwriting then came  to change her cars locks  at her home.
But when Ms H came to renew  her policy she noticed that her premium  had gone up. She 
found that this was because AA Underwriting had recorded the lock change as a claim under 
her policy.  Her NCD was also affected.
Ms H went  elsewhere for her insurance,  but she complained that AA Underwriting had 
misinformed her. She said that she wouldnt  have  got them to change  the locks  if shed 
known that it would be a claim under her policy. She said that she wouldnt have done the 
difficult thing to get her car home from the airport herself and instead would have arranged to 
have the locks changed herself or bought  a new key, or could have tried to claim her costs 
on her travel  insurance. So she wanted  AA Underwriting to put her back  in the position she 
have been in if she hadnt made a claim under her policy. She wanted them to reinstate her 
NCD and compensate her for the likely  future increase in her premiums  over the next few 
years because shed  have to declare that shed made a claim to her insurers in future. 
AA Underwriting denied  having told Ms H that it wouldnt be a claim on her policy  if they 
changed her cars locks  at her home rather than at the airport. They said theyd told her that 
the lock change would be a claim under her policy and that she would have to disclose it in 
future. However  AA Underwriting did agree that theyd told her that the claim wouldnt affect  
her NCD,  when it would.  So they admitted that mistake  and upheld  that aspect  of her 
complaint. They agreed  to reinstate  her NCD and offered to give her a letter confirming her 
NCD which she could take to her new insurer for them to re evaluate her premium  on that 
basis. Ms H didnt think this was enough  and brought her complaint to us.
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should  be upheld.  She thought that AA 
Underwriting hadnt acted  unreasonably overall and that their offer to reinstate her NCD was 
fair. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN43667612Ms H explained as follows. She was on holiday abroad with her family when her 
accommodation was burgled and her car keys and passport were stolen. It seems  that she 
had to stay on abroad to deal with the passport  issue  and some  of her family members  had 
to go home  without her. Shed left her car at the airport  and so there was an issue about how 
to get the car home. I can see that this must have been a very distressing situation overall.
Ms H authorised her daughter Ms G, to speak to AA Underwriting on her behalf. Ms G 
phoned AA Underwriting  from abroad  to first check if Ms Hs policy  would cover  the theft of 
the keys and would allow them to have  the cars locks  changed  or reprogrammed and get 
new keys. AA Underwriting also spoke  to her after shed arrived  back in the UK.
In Ms Gs calls from abroad, the conversation focused on whether or not the policy  covered 
the keys theft and what it would mean  if Ms H were to claim on the policy.  Its clear from 
those calls that AA Underwriting werent sure at first if the policy did cover a key claim in Ms 
Hs circumstances, but within  about  a day or so they confirmed  that it did. By this time Ms G 
was back in the UK and had already got her car from the airport to her home.
Ive listened to the recordings of the calls. In one of the first calls Ms G made from abroad 
AA Underwriting specifically said that changing  the locks would count as a claim on Ms Hs 
policy and she would  have to disclose it in future. They also said that the claim wouldnt 
affect her NCD. 
In subsequent calls there  was a good  deal of discussion about the logistics  of getting the car 
back from the airport without the car keys. This discussion included  the possibilities of AA 
Underwritings agents changing the lock at the airport. And its clear from the call recordings 
that Ms G also tried to get an independent  locksmith to change  the locks  at the airport,  but 
this didnt work out and instead  a friend  drove to the airport with their cars  spare  key. So Ms 
G was able to drive Ms Hs car from the airport to Ms Gs home. 
In a call after she got home, Ms G told AA Underwriting that Ms H still wanted her cars locks  
changed. She explained that Ms H lived elsewhere  in the UK and once Ms H got back to the 
UK from abroad Ms H would want to drive her car to her home  from Ms Gs home. Ms G 
asked if AA Underwriting  would cover having the locks changed at Ms Hs home and AA 
Underwriting confirmed that they would. Theres nothing to suggest then either  that anything  
was conditional  on Ms H getting the car back from airport  herself.  Indeed the car was back 
from the airport by then, but Ms H continued with the claim.
I can see that the whole theft situation  must have been very stressful for Ms H and caused  
real inconvenience.  However, for the reasons Ive explained  above, Im satisfied  that AA 
Underwriting did tell Ms H ( via her agent  Ms G) that changing her cars locks  would  be a 
claim on the policy which she would  have to disclose in future. Im also satisfied that they 
didnt make that conditional on where the lock change  happened. So I dont  think that AA 
Underwriting did anything wrong  there.  
Ref: DRN43667613However, its clear that AA Underwriting did make a mistake about the effect  of the claim on 
Ms Hs NCD. This was because they told Ms G that making a claim would not affect Ms Hs 
NCD. But AA Underwriting accepted their mistake and offered to reinstate her NCD. And as 
Ms H has since  gone elsewhere  for her car insurance, they offered to give her a letter  
confirming her NCD which she can show her new insurer  for them  to revalue her premiums  
on that different  basis. So I think that what theyve offered is fair redress  for their mistake. 
And so I expect them to give her that letter if they havent already, but I dont require them  to 
do anything else. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4366761