K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that Ageas Insurance Limited didnt pay a fair settlement 
when Mr S made a claim as a named driver under  Mrs Ss car insurance policy. 
background
Mrs S bought a car insurance policy  with Ageas. In March 2019 unfortunately Mr S was 
involved in an incident with another vehicle which wasnt his fault. So he reported it to 
Ageas. 
Ageas said it wasnt economical  to repair Mrs Ss car. So it settled the claim by paying the 
market value for it. Ageas said this was £5,560.
Mr S said the valuation was too low and they couldnt buy a similar  car for less than £7,000. 
So he asked us to look at their complaint. 
Our investigator thought Ageas had reached its valuation  in a fair way. So he didnt ask it to 
increase it. 
Mr S didnt agree. He provided further examples of similar cars for sale.  
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
We dont decide  a valuation. But we look at whether  an insurer has reached  its valuation 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mrs Ss policy with Ageas says the most it will be in the event of a total loss is the market 
value of the car. It defines market value  as the cost of replacing  the car with another of the 
same make, specification, model, age, mileage  and condition as the car immediately before 
the loss or damage happened.
We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. We generally think its 
reasonable for an insurer to rely on the main motor  trade guides.  These  guides  provide 
average valuations  based on likely selling prices for a car in the month  of loss  based  on 
the make, model, age, condition  and mileage.  
We think the guides are more reliable than adverts  as adverts can vary widely and tend to be 
higher so that the seller  has room  to negotiate  the final selling  price.  
If we find that an insurer  has paid a valuation within the range of the main  motor trade 
guides, then this is reasonable and in line with our approach.
Ref: DRN46808612Ageas relied  on one of the main  motor trade guides to decide  a valuation for Mr Ss car. We 
checked all four guides. One of the guides  was significantly  lower than the rest. If this 
happens, we think its fair to disregard  this valuation  irrespective of whether its higher or 
lower. In this case, the out of kilter  valuation  is lower.  So the remaining valuations ranged  
from £5,100 and £5,800.  As the market value Ageas paid Mr S is toward the upper range of 
the remaining  guides, I think its been reasonable. 
I understand Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision. But taking everything into 
account, I think Ageas settled the claim in a fair way and in line with the policy.  So Im not 
asking it to do any more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 August  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4680861