K822xcomplaint
Mr K is unhappy that Vanquis Bank Limited didnt do enough to help him after he set up a 
direct debit incorrectly.
background 
When Mr K set up a direct  debit for payments to his Vanquis credit card in August 2017, he 
mistakenly provided incorrect details  Mr K was in hospital at the time. Because  of this 
error, Mr K hasnt made any payments to his credit  card since August 2017 and Vanquis  
have removed Mr Ks credit card facility. Theyve  also defaulted Mr Ks account.
Mr K spoke to Vanquis on several  occasions about his credit  card,  and Vanquis had 
admitted they couldve handled some of the calls better. Because  of this they refunded the 
interest charged on the December 2017  statement, and offered to set up a repayment plan.
Mr K has complained about the way he was treated  by Vanquis and has asked that we 
review this matter.
Our adjudicator was satisfied that the account history was fairly  reflected on Mr Ks credit 
card statements,  and that Vanquis acted reasonably by defaulting the account because 
payments werent  being made.  While he thought it was fair that Vanquis  contacted  Mr K 
about the missing  payments, and theyd  acted reasonably by trying to assist with a 
repayment plan,  he felt that they couldve handled  one of the calls that took place on 19 
August 2017 better.
The adjudicator also felt that Vanquis couldve defaulted the account sooner, and not doing 
so caused Mr K to be charged unnecessary interest. He thought Vanquis shouldve issued 
the default by no later that the end of December 2017, so he thought they should  refund all 
interest and charges applied after this date and backdate  the default. He also thought 
Vanquis should work with Mr K to agree  an affordable  repayment  plan.
Mr K didnt agree with the adjudicator. He doesnt think weve  considered all, of the calls that 
took place on 19 August  2017, when he explained to Vanquis there  was a problem with the 
direct debit, and they werent willing to change this. He believes that, if Vanquis  had allowed  
an alternative direct debit to be set up, all the missing payments wouldve been  made.
Mr K also said the direct  debit wasnt cancelled  until October 2018, and not in September  
2017. So he doesnt understand why Vanquis werent collecting payments during this time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ive seen that Mr K cancelled a direct debit to Vanquis in June 2017. Its not disputed that, 
when Mr K tried to set up the direct debit  again  in August 2017, he gave the wrong account 
details. Because  of this he hasnt made any payments to his credit  card.
Ref: DRN46213182Mr K has been in and out of hospital due to a long-standing medical condition, which made  it 
difficult for him to be able to speak to Vanquis.  In one of the calls on 19 August 2017  Mr K 
asked Vanquis if he closed the account,  would interest still be charged while  he was clearing 
the outstanding balance.  But Vanquis didnt understand what he was asking and therefore 
didnt answer his questions. I agree that this call couldve been handled better. Vanquis have 
refunded Mr K with £113.21 interest by way of an apology for this call, and I agree this was 
reasonable. I dont  think they need  to do anything more about this call.
Mr K spoke to Vanquis several times on 19 August  2017, but I havent  seen that Vanquis 
refused to change or set up a direct  debit for him. Mr K told Vanquis to keep the existing 
direct debit active, which they did. But Vanquis  couldnt collect  any money from this direct 
debit. Theyve said that, after two unsuccessful attempts to collect  the money,  they cancelled  
the direct  debit their end. I think this was reasonable. So, even if the direct debit was still 
live with Mr Ks bank,  Vanquis wouldnt have been  able to collect  payments  from it.
Ive also seen that Vanquis  sent Mr K a default notice issued 24 October as he was more  
than £400 over his credit  limit and payments werent  being made. This explained that no 
further use of this account is permitted at this time, and Mr K had until 12 November to bring  
his account up to date. It also explained  that, if he didnt do this, a default may be applied.
In a call on 20 November  2017, Vanquis  discussed  a possible payment arrangement with Mr 
K, but nothing was agreed. In this call Mr K made it clear that, because Vanquis had 
withdrawn the credit  card facility, he wouldnt be making any further payments.
I think Vanquis also acted  reasonably by restricting Mr Ks account.  Ive not seen anything to 
show me they promised  to keep the account  open, and if Mr K wasnt making any payments, 
Id expect Vanquis to stop the card being used. 
Following this, in February  2018,  Vanquis applied  a default to Mr Ks account, and let the 
credit reference agencies know theyd done  this.
I dont think Vanquis have done anything  wrong by issuing a default notice, because 
payments werent  being made.  I also think it was reasonable they asked Mr K for details of 
his income and expenditure before agreeing to any payment arrangement   Vanquis would 
need this information to ensure that any arrangement was suitable, sustainable and didnt  
put Mr K under any unnecessary  financial  pressure.
But I also think that Vanquis couldve applied the default sooner. They told Mr K they would 
look to do so if he didnt  bring his account  up to date in November 2017, and then account 
wasnt brought up to date.  So I agree  with the adjudicator that Vanquis shouldve applied  the 
default by no later than December  2017,  and not wait until February 2018. So they should  
backdate the default  to December 2017, and refund all charges and interest applied after 
this time.
Ref: DRN46213183my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Ks complaint. Vanquis Bank Limited must 
backdate the default  to December 2017, and refund all charges and interest applied to 
Mr Ks credit  card account after this date.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4621318