K820x#14complaint
The representatives of the estate of the late Miss L have complained that Bank of Scotland 
plc (Halifax)  mis-sold  her two fee-paying Ultimate Reward Current Accounts (URCA)  in 
July 2009 and August 2011. 
background
Halifax objected to us looking  at both of these  sales as it believed  that the complaint was 
brought too late. Ultimately one of our ombudsmen issued a decision saying  that the 
complaint about  the first sale was brought  too late, but that we could  look at the sale of the 
second URCA that was sold in August  2011.
We then looked  into this sale and our adjudicators thought that this account was not mis-
sold. The representative  of the estate of the late Miss L did not agree with this assessment 
and asked for a final decision.
For the sake of readability from this point when I refer to Miss L, I mean the late Miss L.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. 
Ive used this approach  to decide what to do about  Miss Ls complaint. And having  done so, I 
dont think the account was mis-sold. I will explain  why.
I think at this point it would be helpful to explain that I must base my decision on what  is 
most likely to have happened, given the available evidence  that I have. Firstly, I will address 
whether I think Miss L was given a fair choice in taking out this account. Miss Ls says that 
she was told she had to have the URCA in order to have an overdraft.
However, I can see that Miss Ls account before this upgrade was a fee free account with an 
overdraft. So I think it likely that she wouldve been  reasonably aware that free accounts 
were an option for her and that she could have an overdraft on a free account.  
I think that it is more likely that Miss L upgraded because of the overdraft benefit that the 
URCA came with. To explain, on a fee free account,  every day an account holder is in their 
overdraft they have to pay a daily fee of £1. But, importantly,  URCA account  holders did not 
have to pay this fee if they were overdrawn by less than £300. This means that if an account 
holder regularly used the first £300  of their overdraft, they potentially could save  money 
versus holding a standard current account.  Looking at Miss Ls bank statements I can see 
that she did use her overdraft on a monthly basis for the most  part within the £300  and 
therefore I think that this may have been the reason she agreed to the upgrade  her account. 
Given this I think that overall Miss L was given a fair choice to take out the URCA and she 
chose to do so.
Miss L has said that this account was recommended to her. Halifax has said that it did not 
recommend the URCA. Based on what both parties  have  said it does not look like there was 
a discussion of the benefits and Miss Ls requirements, which is what  I would have expected 
had a personal recommendation been  made.
Ref: DRN47929142However, even if this account was recommended to Miss L, I think that it wouldve been 
broadly be appropriate. I say this because at the time the URCA was taken out, in addition to 
the overdraft benefit  explained above; some of the benefits that the account came  with were 
mobile phone insurance,  travel insurance and breakdown  cover. I note that Miss L may not 
have been eligible for the travel insurance,  and that she did not need the breakdown cover.  
But I think that she couldve  used  the mobile  phone insurance and the overdraft benefit.  
The URCA was the only account that Halifax had that came  with the overdraft benefit and 
mobile phone insurance,  so even if Miss L could  not use all of the benefits that the account 
came with, I dont think that this wouldve meant  that a recommendation was unreasonable.
I note Miss Ls comments that she was not made aware of the need  to register a handset for 
the mobile phone  insurance. But it is my understanding that this need was removed a few 
weeks after the account was sold, and I cant see any declined  claims during this brief 
period, so I dont think that Miss L suffered  a loss due to this.
I accept that there may have been  other  things  that Miss L was not told about the other  
benefits but I cant see anything specific that Miss L was not told that I think wouldve altered 
her decision  to take out the account.
Ultimately while I understand that my decision is going to be disappointing to Miss Ls 
representatives, I dont  think that the URCA was mis-sold.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the 
representatives of the estate of the late Miss L to accept or reject my decision before 
27 September 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4792914