K820x#13complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2001 alongside  a mortgage. Mrs C says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
Santander was trading  as Abbey National at the time. To keep things simple, Ill refer to the 
lender as Santander throughout my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs C says she was told she should take the PPI policy in case  she was unable  to work due 
to accident, sickness  or redundancy.  Because  of this, she thought she had to take the policy  
in order to get the mortgage approved and feels the policy was mis-sold. Santander no 
longer has the documents from the time of the sale. I dont think this is unreasonable 
considering the sale was over 18 years ago. Because of this its not possible for me to know 
how the PPI was presented and explained  to Mrs C. Where  theres  a lack of information,  I 
have to consider  what I think  is more  likely  to have happened in the circumstances.
In order for me to agree  that Santander mis-sold  the policy to Mrs C, Id have to think  its 
more likely it gave her no choice but to take the policy or that it was added to the mortgage 
without her consent. Mrs C has said she was told she should take out the policy and that 
she was told she would  need the PPI even after telling  the representative she had other 
means of making  her repayments  if she was out of work. 
Having considered this, I think  its more likely  Santander recommended  the policy to Mrs C 
based on her personal circumstances. Looking at what Mrs C has said,  and without any 
evidence showing otherwise, I dont think Santander  told Mrs C that she had no choice but to 
take the PPI. And I still think its more likely Santander gave her a choice in taking the policy  
or declining  it. 
Because Santander recommended the PPI to Mrs C, it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for her. And based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. 
Mrs C wouldve received  six months  at full pay followed  by six months at half pay if she was 
sick. But the policy couldve covered her for up to twelve months per claim if she was too ill 
to work, had an accident or was made redundant. As she received half pay for a period of 
time and the PPI provided additional cover,  I think she couldve found it useful. It also looks 
Ref: DRN42152832like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because  Santander didnt tell Mrs C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mrs C any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should  also pay back to Mrs C any extra interest 
she paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mrs C the extra she paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mrs C 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs C can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mrs C any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4215283