K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc failed to tell him about  a savings account which 
offered a better  investment for money he had inherited. 
background
In 2016 Mr S inherited around £250,000 and in January  2017  he met with the investment  
team at Santander.  Mr S had some  other  investments  and assets. Santander issued a 
suitability report outlining  his investment  options.  Mr S had expressed a wish not to make 
any high risk investments  and said he ended up with the 123 current  account. 
Mr S said he frequently visited his local branch  to make deposits  but in June 2018 he visited  
a different branch. He said the advisor who served him there told him hed get better interest 
if he put his money  into an eSaver  account,  which, he said, he did straight away. 
He then complained to Santander that no one had mentioned this account to him previously 
and if they had he wouldve put the bulk of the money into this account straight away.  He 
wanted Santander to pay the interest  he believes hes lost £450 to £500,  plus compensation. 
Santander said it hadnt made  any error. It said it had discussed  investment options with 
Mr S on more  than one occasion  and no investments or changes  were taken up. Mr S 
remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to this service.  
The investigator thought Santander shouldve told Mr S about the option of transferring the 
funds to the savings account. And as a result, thought Santander should compensate  
Mr S for the amount  of interest he wouldve earned  since his meeting with the financial 
planning adviser.
Mr S agreed with the investigators view. Santander  asked for a final decision  from an 
ombudsman. It provided  further  evidence and said while it appreciated Mr S attended a 
meeting with the Financial Planning Manager this was to discuss potential investments and 
followed previous  discussions with a Select Relationship Manager.  It said the meeting with 
the Select Relationship Manager in December 2016 had discussed savings, bonds and 
instant access accounts and that was when the meeting  with the Financial Planning 
Manager was arranged. Mr S wanted to wait before making any decisions. It said he was 
aware of the balances  in the account,  he had the savings  account already and he could 
have moved the money at any point while he was deciding  on his final course of action. 
After considering all the evidence  I sent a provisional decision to both Mr S and Santander  
on 21 March 2019. I said: 
In establishing  what is the right outcome  I have  to look at what  Mr Ss objectives  were at the 
time and I must also consider if Mr S was already aware of this option or ought reasonably to 
have been aware.
Santander produced a suitability report following the January meeting. In it the advisor 
outlines Mr Ss objectives for investment which Mr S hasnt disputed.  The report says:
You have no specific objective  for the money  but you are unhappy at current  very 
low interest rates. You want to consider other  options for the money
Ref: DRN49856202You are aware that interest rates are very low and that, over time, inflation  can have 
an impact on the real spending power of your savings.  You would like to invest  to 
achieve the potential for a better return than that on offer from low interest savings 
accounts and to help minimise the effects of inflation  over time
Mr S deposited the money into his current account  which he opened in 1995. The account 
was upgraded  to the 123 Gold account in January 2017. Santander has said the upper limit 
of £20,000 for the cut off of credit interest has always remained the same and was detailed 
in terms of the account in 2012  and 2017.  Ive looked at Mr Ss current  account statements 
and the £20,000 interest  credit limit is detailed at the top of the statements. In the suitability 
report, written in January 2017, the financial advisor  recommends  Mr S retain his 123 current 
account with a balance of no more  than £20,000.  So Im satisfied Mr S was aware  or ought 
reasonably to have  been  aware there was an interest limit on this current account  and that 
he would  not be earning interest  for the capital above £20,000.
Mr S opened  his savings  account in 2012. The account was converted to the Everyday 
Saver account in 2013. So clearly Mr S knew about this account  because  he already  had it 
prior to the deposit of the money.  And he wouldve seen in the terms and conditions  supplied 
when he opened  the account, that it was an instant  access account. Ive also seen the key 
facts documents  for the savings account from 2016 to 2018.  I consider it likely Mr S would 
have been sent these  at various times when they were revised. In the suitability report  the 
advisor acknowledged Mr S was aware that interest  rates were low. So Im satisfied Mr S 
had the account, and was aware or ought  reasonably to have been aware of the interest 
rates and the instant access to funds in the account.  
And from the suitability  report Im satisfied Mr S didnt appear to want to put his money into 
his low interest savings  account.  This wasnt his objective and he wasnt happy with the low 
interest rates.
In the suitability report the advisor noted Mr S only wanted to invest for no more  than five 
years. He also noted that capital protection was important to Mr S:
During our discussions you made it clear that you do not want to lose any of the 
capital that you have for new investment.  Capital  protection is your priority
He also noted  Mr S was conscious of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS). The FSCS protects customers of financial firms that have failed. In the FSCS  there  
is a limit to the amount  of funds protected per person  per authorised  bank. At the time of the 
situation report the limit was £75,000  but rose to £85,000 on the 30 January  2017. 
Santander made a number  of recommendations:
I am recommending that you invest £65,000 and retain your 123 current  account  
with Santander  with a balance of no more than £20,000. I recommend that you 
transfer the remainder  of your savings (not Investment ISA) to another  bank/financial 
institution. This would  be an amount of £240,816.24.  This amount includes your Cash  
ISA balance of £57,680.48.  To transfer  a Cash ISA you would first approach another 
provider and ask them to transfer the Cash ISA for you. This will retain the ISA 
wrapper around  these funds.
Ref: DRN49856203Mr S stated  he didnt want to put his money in a low interest savings account  and that he 
was conscious  of FSCS.  So I consider  Santanders  recommendations  appropriate  for Mr Ss 
objectives. 
Had Santander recommended Mr S use his savings account its not clear  to me Mr S would 
necessarily have taken  that advice. Mr S transferred the bulk of the funds to his savings 
account following  the branch visit in June 2018  but the money remained in this account as of 
January 2019.  And the balance in his current account exceeds £26,000. So while the 
savings account  itself doesnt appear to have been  explicitly discussed as an option, I 
consider Mr S ought reasonably to have been  aware of it and had it been discussed  I cant  
say he would have  transferred the money immediately following receipt of the report. Since  
providing the report Mr S hasnt taken any of the advice  given  despite  his stated objectives. 
He hasnt invested as recommended nor has he transferred any of the funds  out of 
Santander.  
So I was minded to conclude  that Santander  hasnt  done anything  wrong. Santander  said it 
had nothing further to add. Mr S didnt accept these  findings. He called in to give his 
feedback which Ive summarised. He said I had mistaken the everyday  saver with the 
eSaver and that he had opened  a new account in June 2018 and had not transferred to an 
existing account.  He said both the Financial Planning Manager and the Select Relationship 
Manager should have recommended he put the money in the eSaver. And the Financial 
Planning Manager should have recommended he do that with the £65,000  if he didnt want 
to invest the money  in higher risk investments. 
Mr S went  on to say that his intention regarding the length of investment was misleading.  He 
said he told the Financial  Planning Manager that if he was to invest  he wouldnt consider 
anything more than five years, not that he wanted to invest  for up to five years. Mr S added  
that he disagreed  with my conclusion that I couldnt  say he would have transferred the 
money had the eSaver  been discussed previously. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr S but having  done  so Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional 
conclusions so I wont be asking Santander  to do anything further.  
First of all Id like to reassure Mr S that, as he requested, I have listened to the call he had 
with the investigator  in response to my provisional  findings in which he gave some feedback. 
And Im happy to respond  to it here.  
Mr S has said that Ive been mistaken about the Easy  Saver  account and that he actually 
opened a new eSaver account in June 2018  to which he transferred the bulk of the money. 
He said the advisor  recommended he transfer the money specifically to an eSaver account  
which he didnt have  at the time. 
As I explained in my provisional decision Mr S opened a savings account  in 2012. This was 
called a Branch  saver. The account  was converted to the Everyday Saver  account in 2013.  I 
asked Santander  to reconfirm what savings accounts Mr S had, which  account the bulk of 
the money is in now and whether it opened a new eSaver account in June 2018.  It provided 
a copy statement of Mr Ss Everyday Saver account for the period of 6 April 2018 to 5 April 
2019. At the top of the statement it says Everyday Saver Statement. The statement 
Ref: DRN49856204indicates this is the destination account  for the bulk of Mr Ss money. So Im satisfied that 
this is the account  Mr S transferred  his money  to. Im also satisfied this account  was already 
known to Mr S and Santander  confirmed it did not open a new eSaver account. Im also 
satisfied that Mr S has been using this account  because I notice transactions have occurred 
out of the account since 18 June 2018.  
Mr S is correct  in that there are two different accounts, as shown on Santanders website,  
the eSaver and the Everyday Saver. But Mr S has only ever had the Everyday Saver  
account. I havent seen any contact notes  from when  Mr S visited  the branch so its not 
possible for me to confirm  what was said by the advisor in June 2018. Where evidence  is 
missing or contradictory I must make a decision based on what  I think  most  likely happened. 
As the advisor  transferred  the money straight away it seems  unlikely they would have 
advised Mr S to open an eSaver account  and then not do so without informing him. 
Mr S has also said that both the financial  advisors  he spoke to should have recommended  
he put the money into an eSaver. Santander  said the outcome of the meeting in December 
2016 with the Select  Relationship Manager was that nothing  was taken up. It said the 
Manager had reported she would have  discussed savings, bonds, instant access  etc. It went 
on to say the Manager would have the screen  turned around so Mr S could see it and it 
would show all the balances and what they were  realising. Due to the balance of the account 
it said she wanted to make Mr S aware  of all his options, one of which  would be to see a 
Financial Planning Manager.  Santander  said this is what Mr S wanted to do before making 
any decision. It said Mr S had not wanted this Select Relationship Manager to follow up with 
him. 
Santander also spoke  to the Financial  Planning  Manager. This manager said prior to the fact 
find meeting he would have printed off all the customers balances and beside each account 
write the applicable interest rate. He said this would have been discussed  with Mr S and he 
would have been fully aware of the limitation of the interest on the 123 account. Santander 
noted that Mr S was very risk adverse and wanted  any investment to be protected  by the 
FSCS.
I remain satisfied that Mr S ought reasonably  to have been aware of his Everyday Saver 
and, as noted in my provisional decision, the interest  rates  on this account, and it seems  
reasonable to believe  that the two managers  included the Everyday Saver in their 
preparation for and discussions around Mr Ss portfolio of accounts.  
As I also said in my provisional  findings it also appears that Mr S was, according to the 
suitability report,  concerned  about  low interest  rates and didnt want  to put his money  in a 
low interest savings account. So its possible there  wasnt a great deal of discussion about 
his Everyday Saver account because of Mr Ss objectives. There  would also be no reason to 
mention this in relation to the proposed £65,000  for the same  reason. 
Mr S hasnt taken up any of the recommendations nor, if he were risk adverse, has he 
moved the money out of Santander in relation to the FSCS. I accept it is possible Mr S would 
have transferred the money over much earlier but I cant say with any degree of certainty,  
particularly on the basis that he hasnt taken  up any other recommendations and that he 
already had the Every Day savings account,  and could have transferred the money at any 
point following receipt of his inheritance.
Ref: DRN49856205Mr S has corrected  a point I made in my provisional  decision. He said if he was to invest he 
wouldnt consider  anything more than five years, not that he necessarily wanted to invest  for 
up to five years. I understand the distinction Mr S is making and I apologise for the 
misunderstanding. But I dont think it affects the outcome of my decision because the main 
point I was making was in reference to the fact he had stated that capital protection was 
important.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4985620