K820x#14complaint
Mr K1 and Mr K2 complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr K1 and Mr K2 took out a mortgage  in 1987 and they were sold PPI around the same 
time.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr K1 and Mr K2 disagreed with 
our adjudicator. 
Their main complaint  is that Halifax didnt make them aware that PPI was optional and it 
wasnt needed. Mr K1 and Mr K2 say they had other means they couldve relied  on to cover  
their mortgage monthly repayments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Theres only limited information  now available from the point of sale.  So Ive relied 
substantially on what Mr K1 and Mr K2 told us and information from Halifax. And Ive also 
taken into account  what the Financial Ombudsman Service already knows about the policies 
Halifax sold, and the way it sold PPI, based on our previous experience of dealing with other 
similar complaints from around that time. 
Mr K1 and Mr K2 took out the mortgage  in joint names and Ive looked at both their 
circumstances when  the policy was taken out.  
Ive decided not to uphold Mr K1 and Mr K2s complaint. Heres why I say this.
Normally, Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been  presented. But Halifax hasnt been able to provide 
anything signed  by Mr K1 and Mr K2 from this sale. 
I dont think thats  surprising given that the mortgage  account closed over 16 years ago. 
I wouldnt expect Halifax to have  kept records about a closed  account  for so long. And it 
wouldnt be reasonable to rely just on what Mr K1 and Mr K2 might be able to remember  
about the sale after such a long time. This means that what they say isnt enough  on its own 
for me to be able to uphold this complaint. I have  to look at all the available information and 
decide what I think is most likely.
Ref: DRN49472622I cant know exactly what was discussed  when Mr K1 and Mr K2 arranged their mortgage. 
But overall, I dont  think the evidence is strong enough for me to say that Halifax  didnt make 
it clear that it was open to Mr K1 and Mr K2 not to choose PPI if they didnt want to have it, 
just based on what they say now about  how Halifax sold them the PPI. Their mortgage was 
a major financial commitment repayable over a long period of time  the consequences can 
be serious if mortgage payments arent  kept up to date. So, I can see why they mightve felt 
PPI was useful to have.  
On balance, I think its likely that Mr K1 and Mr K2 decided they wanted to take advantage of 
the policy benefits by taking out the PPI offered and they chose to buy the policy.   
Halifax says it advised Mr K1 and Mr K2 to take out the PPI. So this means that as well as 
giving clear information the advisor also had to take reasonable  steps to make sure the PPI 
recommendation was suitable for Mr K1 and Mr K2. 
With no paperwork to show who had the PPI, I think the fairest  way to assess their complaint 
is to look at it on the basis that Mr K1 and Mr K2 shared the policy  benefits.  
Halifax told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document  from the date Mr K1 and 
Mr K2 took out PPI. But it has provided  a policy document  which  was in use shortly  
afterwards  so I think  its likely  that in all main respects the policy that Mr K1 and Mr K2 took 
out wouldve  had similar terms and conditions. 
It looks like Mr K1 and Mr K2 were  both eligible for PPI.
Ive taken into account that Mr K1 and Mr K2 were both long serving employees. But there  
can be no guarantee that any job will always be secure. PPI protected  Mr K1 and Mr K2 in 
the event of unemployment for up to 12 months per claim. 
And the policy wouldve also covered their mortgage repayments if either of them  had an 
accident or was too sick or disabled to work. Although they were each entitled  to some sick 
pay from their employer,  if either  (or both) of them had been off sick, the policy wouldve paid 
out on top of any work benefits  for 12 months.  This was longer than either Mr K1 or Mr K2 
was contractually entitled to sick pay  and the policy provided more  reliable cover than 
depending on discretionary benefit being  paid.
Mr K1 and Mr K2 couldve made repeated claims on the policy  after a qualifying  period back 
at work. So PPI provided long term cover for as long as they had to pay their mortgage. 
As this was a joint mortgage, and they were both in work  when it was taken out, I dont know 
how easy it wouldve been  for Mr K1 and Mr K2 to keep up the mortgage  monthly  
repayments if either of them couldnt work.  It seems  likely to me that losing one of their 
incomes wouldve  had a significant  impact  on their joint finances. 
Mr K1 and Mr K2 mentioned having substantial savings. But there was no guarantee when  
Mr K1 and Mr K2 took out this mortgage  that they would always  have savings to rely on as 
everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
And it looks like they preferred not to spend  savings, or they had other plans for that money,  
since they took out this mortgage  rather than invest all their savings in buying the house. 
Having PPI meant Mr K1 and Mr K2 could depend on being  able to continue to keep savings  
intact to spend  on other things or to provide financial security for the future. 
Ref: DRN49472623PPI is more dependable than relying on family help. Having  PPI meant Mr K1 and Mr K2 
could be sure theyd  always be able to keep up the monthly repayments. I think that 
wouldve been an important consideration when they took out their mortgage. So I can see 
why Mr K1 and Mr K2 mightve  wanted  PPI at the time  even  if theyve forgotten  this now.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr K1 and Mr K2 told us about their financial situation when 
they took out their mortgage. Overall,  I dont find that Mr K1 and Mr K2s work benefits  or 
personal circumstances meant that Halifaxs PPI recommendation was unsuitable for them.   
Mr K2 told us about a medical condition he was diagnosed with before he took out this PPI. 
Its possible that Mr K2 mightnt  have been covered for this medical condition  and I dont 
know if Halifax explained this as clearly as it shouldve done. But, based  on what 
Mr K1 and Mr K2 told us, I dont think Mr K2 wouldve had any reason to expect  at the time 
he signed up for the PPI that hed be likely  to take any significant  time off work because  of 
his condition. Mr K1 and Mr K2 told us that when they took out the PPI they were both 
healthy and fit barring Mr K2s condition which was in remission  for a long period. 
So I dont  think that Mr K2 wouldve had any reason to expect hed want to claim under the 
policy for any absence  from work  related to his condition. And, even if that mightve been 
something he thought  was a possibility, hed still have had all the other  policy benefits. So 
I dont think better information  about  the policys limitations wouldve affected Mr K2s 
decision to take out PPI. 
As far as I can see Mr K1 wasnt  affected by any of the main policy exclusions. So, I think  it 
unlikely that better information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve put him off taking  
out PPI.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr K1 and Mr K2 when they bought the policy.  
But they havent suggested  that they couldnt afford  the monthly premiums.  And they 
couldve cancelled the PPI at any time if they no longer wanted to pay for it or keep the 
policy running  and it appears they knew this as they cancelled it in 1991. 
Its possible there mightve been  some failings in the way this policy  was sold.  But I think 
Mr K1 and Mr K2 still wouldve decided  to buy the policy if theyd been better informed as it 
gave them useful  protection in their particular situation. So I dont find theyve  lost out 
financially as a result  of anything that Halifax mightve done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K1 and Mr K2 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4947262