K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy about the premium increases on his private medical  insurance  policy  with AXA 
PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA).
background
Mr S held a policy  with XHI-Achmea which was discontinued in 2017.  XHI-Achmea  contacted 
policy holders to inform  them of the discontinuation  and said AXA would be in contact to offer 
comparable cover without  the need  for a medical declaration. 
Mr S accepted an offer for cover from AXA and his policy  was transferred over in January  2017. 
2018 renewal  
Toward the end of his first year of cover, Mr S was informed his premium  was increasing. He felt 
the increase was excessive so complained to AXA. At this point  Mr S was made  aware that his 
2017 premium had been subsidized by his previous insurer as part of the transfer  agreement. 
Mr S didnt know about the subsidiary when he agreed to transfer so he was unhappy to learn 
hed now have to cover the discount provided by the subsidiary, in addition to the general  annual 
increase in the cost of his plan. 
Based on his age and medical history, Mr S has said he felt he had no alternative but to accept 
the new premium. 
2019 renewal  
The next year Mr S was informed his premium was increasing again. Like before, he says he felt 
he had no option  but to continue with the policy because he wouldnt have been accepted by a 
different insurer. 
Mr S felt the increase was again  excessive so he complained and asked the business for 
justification. 
AXA said it prices the plans according  to risk, whilst making every  effort  to maintain premiums at 
an affordable level.  AXA also confirmed it applies any increase to the whole individual  book on 
each level of cover. 
Unhappy with this response,  Mr S referred his complaint to this service  for consideration. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint  and didnt think the business had acted unreasonably.
Mr S felt this wasnt a fair outcome so the case has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to note the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  doesnt  regulate the prices insurers  
can charge or the methods an insurer might use to calculate a price.  So, I am unable to make  a 
judgement about  the amount Mr Ss premium increased by, or the way AXA has chosen to assess 
his risk. However, AXA has a responsibility  to calculate renewal prices reasonably. So I need to 
decide whether  thats what happened in the circumstances of this case.  
Taking Mr Ss medical history into account,  Im pleased  he was given the opportunity to transfer to 
a new insurer for comparable cover - without the need for a medical  declaration. This meant no 
exclusions were applied  to his cover, something  I expect other new providers wouldve done  had 
he chosen to go elsewhere.  
Mr S has said he was initially  happy  with the most accurate and pro-active  service  provided by 
AXA in 2017.  So, it is unfortunate  he was confronted with a renewal price he was unhappy with at 
the end of his first year. 
Ref: DRN44693712AXA has told us that Mr Ss renewal pricing was based on general medical inflation and an 
increase in his age - but Mr S doesnt  believe this to be the case. Therefore, Ive reviewed  
evidence showing the underwriting  approach used by the business  and how Mr Ss price increase 
was calculated. And Ive not seen anything to dispute  the explanation put forward  by AXA. 
Also, Mr S firmly believes his increase wasnt applied to all comparable policy holders because he 
says everyone wouldve  been unhappy  at such a high increase. In order  to be satisfied, he has 
asked we demonstrate theyve all been treated  the same as him.  Im afraid  the pricing approach  
evidence Ive reviewed  is confidential and commercially sensitive, so I cant share it. But I want to 
assure Mr S Ive checked  it carefully and Im satisfied his price increase was calculated correctly. 
And I can confirm all AXAs customers in the same  position  were  charged a similar premium.  
As such,  Im unable  to say Mr S has been  discriminated against  or treated unfairly. 
Mr S has said he had no option but to continue with the policy  at renewal  because  he wouldnt 
have been accepted by a different insurer at his age, with his medical history. This may be the 
case, but it is not something I can hold AXA responsible for. AXA hasnt restricted Mr Ss ability  to 
take cover  elsewhere.  So although I can appreciate he feels he may not have been successful in 
obtaining equivalent cover  elsewhere, this isnt through  any wrongdoing by AXA. 
Based on the above, Im satisfied AXA calculated  each of Mr Ss renewal prices reasonably. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest he was treated unfairly. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr S because its clear he feels  he has suffered an injustice 
by the business. However, I hope  this decision  explains  why Im unable to conclude AXA has 
treated him unreasonably. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject  
my decision  before 16 February 2020.
Georgina Gill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4469371