K821x#15complaint
Mrs S has complained about Ageas  Insurance  Limited as the underwriter  of a property 
insurance policy she arranged through S.  
background
In 2016 the insurance for a property belonging to Mrs S came up for renewal. The property 
at that time had recently  become vacant. S handled the renewal  and there was no change to 
the cover  afforded by the policy. The property remained  vacant and in December 2017 the 
policy came  up for renewal again.  An invite  was sent to Mrs S. The invite  letter warned 
Mrs S that there had been  a significant change to the level of cover  provided by her policy  
and that she should check the endorsements  that had been added. 
One endorsement added said what to do in the event the property  was unoccupied, and that 
included directions relating to evidence that it might be necessary to produce  in relation to a 
claim made for loss or damage  caused by an escape of water. The second endorsement, 
featured directly  underneath the reference to escape of water claims,  restricted the policy  
cover; meaning only claims  for damage  caused by fire, lightning,  explosion or earthquake,  
and impact by aircraft would be covered (commonly known in the industry as FLEA cover).
The policy schedule also set out the excesses  applicable  to the policy  sections. including  
that for escape  of water. The policy premium was higher than that charged for the previous 
years cover.  Mrs S felt she was fully covered and renewed.
After the renewal came into effect  there was a water leak at Mrs Ss property. She made  a 
claim which was declined  because there  was only FLEA cover in place.  Mrs S disputed  that; 
she felt that if this was the case the wording  of the policy was unclear. She said if shed 
understood the true meaning, as then expressed to her, she wouldnt have renewed  the 
cover, shed  have  looked elsewhere (and since this time Mrs S has found full cover for the 
property even though it has been empty for a prolonged  period).
Mrs S complained to this service and complaints were set up about both Ageas and S. 
I previously considered the complaint  against  S. I found, based on evidence Id seen  
pertaining to Ss business agreement for insurance provision, that S wasnt responsible  for 
the endorsements and policy documentation.  
In respect of the complaint  against  Ageas, my colleague contacted it and its agent said that 
a complaint about the clarity of the policy  documents  and endorsement  wording was for S to 
answer. But it also said it simply handles:
claims based on the terms and conditions and the relevant endorsement/exclusions which  
have been applied by the insurers and [S].
Further referral was made to Ageas  which Ageas itself chose not to respond to, instead  
opting to pass  it to the agent. And further contact with the agent took place  wherein it was 
informed of the decision issued about Ss liability for the policy  documents. The agent  said S 
is responsible for everything to do with the policy wording. No evidence to support this 
contention was supplied.
My colleague then issued her view. This referred again to the findings  of my previous 
decision. She explained the policy wording was, in her view, misleading  and, as she was 
Ref: DRN46758252satisfied that Mrs S would  have  purchased  a different policy,  and therefore have been 
covered at the point of the water leak, if the terms of the renewed policy had been  clear, she 
felt Ageas needed  to settle  the claim. She set out some figures she felt Ageas needed to pay 
for work already done (and shared a spreadsheet of costs  incurred)  and said that it should  
have a loss adjuster determine what reinstatement work remained outstanding,  then either 
carry out this work or pay Mrs S to have it done.  She also said it should pay Mrs S £500 
compensation. The view was sent to Ageas direct,  as well as its agent, and Mrs S. 
Clarification was provided to both parties  that where policy  terms needed to be considered, it 
was the terms of the new policy that should  be applied. Whilst Mrs S raised a question about  
carpets my colleague pointed out that the new policy didnt include contents cover so Ageas 
wouldnt be required to provide settlement in this respect.
Mrs S said she accepted my colleagues  findings.  
Ageas agent  reiterated that S is responsible for the policy wording. The agent went  on to 
explain the policy wording  and stated that Mrs S, as the prospective policyholder,  had a duty 
to ensure the cover met her needs.  The agent also indicated that the premium  price would 
likely have indicated a change in the level of cover.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas agent  has repeatedly said S was responsible for producing the policy  documents. But 
Ive issued findings previously in a final decision that concluded otherwise, and nothing  has 
been produced  here, despite Ageas being aware of my findings on the other  complaint, to 
make me think my decision in that respect  was wrong. 
The policy documents have to be produced by someone. That is usually the underwriter for 
the cover. But there are instances where an insurance company like S will assume  that role 
under a formal  business agreement with the underwriter. Ageas hasnt provided any 
evidence in this case to make me think it didnt have responsibility for the policy wording. 
And it has had ample opportunity to do so. 
Furthermore, Ageas  agent has conceded,  as quoted above,  that Ageas is at least partly  
responsible for the documentation. And this comment detracts somewhat from the other 
protestations the agent has made  that Ageas isnt liable for the policy  wording.
On balance I find its most likely that Ageas is responsible for the policy  wording and 
I havent seen  persuasive evidence  to make me think otherwise. Therefore if I also find it is 
unclear and that this caused  Mrs S to suffer a loss then Ageas will need to make up for that 
by putting Mrs S back into the position  she would have been in but for its failure.
I appreciate that there are two policy endorsements here, only one of which was relied upon 
to defeat the claim. But the two endorsements appear one after the other in the policy 
schedule. And they both refer to the situation  where the property is unoccupied. 
So I think its likely that Mrs S read them both as shes  suggested. And considering the terms 
from a lay persons  point  of view I can understand why Mrs S came to the conclusion  she did. 
I think the endorsements as presented in the schedule  are unclear such  that they are 
Ref: DRN46758253reasonably likely to create  a misunderstanding.  Im satisfied that is what happened  in the 
circumstances here.
To explain, Mrs S read the first (long) endorsement which  began  by setting out security 
requirements and stated that if not adhered to any claim relating to unauthorised entry might 
fail. The endorsement  concluded by stating that in the event  of an escape  of water, bills and 
receipts should kept to assist with a claim.  So Mrs S had it in her mind  that the 
endorsements were  talking about  individual  causes of damage and what  was needed in 
respect of them for cover to succeed.  She was also given to understand from this first 
endorsement that damage  caused by escape  of water was covered. And this was supported 
by other  parts  of the policy  such  as detail about  the excess  applicable  in the event of an 
escape of water claim. 
Mrs S then continued, reading  the second  endorsement which began by referring  to fire 
claims and then listed, after a reference  to gradual causes, various other  causes of damage 
such as explosion. And, having  read all of this, Mrs S understood that fire claims  would only 
be covered where  they didnt result from gradual  causes or explosions, or the other incidents 
listed. Having considered the endorsements,  I can see how she came to this understanding.
In this instance Im satisfied that the policy wording lacked clarity  and allowed for the 
misunderstanding to occur  rather than it having resulted from Mrs S merely misconstruing 
clear details about what her policy offered. 
Im also mindful that the first (long) endorsement  has now been changed  it is formatted 
better, worded more clearly  and the reference  to water claims has been entirely removed. 
Policy wording does get changed and that isnt always because  the previous wording was 
unclear. But I think  the change  likely has relevance here and Ageas hasnt, despite having 
been asked to do so, provided  any explanation  for why the amendment has occurred.
Im also satisfied that if Mrs S had been aware  of the severe  restriction  in her cover she 
wouldnt have continued with the policy. Shed have gone elsewhere as she did after the 
claim and once she was aware of the policys limitations. And because  Mrs S found cover it 
seems to me she always would have  found cover if shed realised there was a need  to do 
so. Therefore, Im satisfied that, but for the misleading and unclear policy  wording, Mrs S 
would have had cover at the time of the water  damage incident.
This means  that Ageas  has to, as far as is reasonably possible, put Mrs S back into the 
positon she would always have been  in. As she has found a policy  which includes cover for 
escape of water Im satisfied that means that if shed  needed  to find that cover earlier she 
would have done and any claim for water damage would likely have been met. So Im going 
to require Ageas to cover the claim  in line with the terms of the new policy.
Therefore, Ageas will need to assess what reinstatement work remains to be done at 
Mrs Ss home then either;  carry out that work, or pay Mrs S so she can have it done. In the 
main the new policy  will provide the framework for any settlement due to Mrs S but Ageas, if 
it chooses to not complete the work,  will not be able to rely on what it would have cost it to 
do so in order to calculate any settlement to pay to Mrs S. If Mrs S chooses to not let Ageas 
carry out work that it is prepared to do then Ageas will be able to settle based on what it 
would cost it to do that work. 
Regarding the work that Mrs S has already carried out; I think its understandable in the 
circumstances that some  work was done. It wouldnt be fair for Mrs S to be left out of pocket 
Ref: DRN46758254for that. She provided  us details of the cost of that work, and that was shared with Ageas by 
my colleague when her view on the complaint  was issued.  Ageas hasnt made  any objection 
specifically in respect of those costs. 
Mrs S has done most of the work herself but a contractor was paid £868 for re-boarding and 
re-plastering. The total cost of materials  and equipment Mrs S purchased for work she 
completed was £2,285.51. All the details regarding purchases made to complete the insured 
repairs seem  reasonable to me  the items seem like those that would be needed to 
complete that work, and none of the figures appear to be excessive or unlikely in anyway. 
Therefore, I see no good reason to not make Ageas reimburse all of these costs, plus 
interest*. As Ageas  hasnt had sight of all the receipts Im going to require it to pay interest  
on the re-boarding  and re-plastering sums from the date they were paid until settlement is 
made and only upon  receipted  amounts for the materials and equipment purchased  once 
that proof  is provided  to it by Mrs S.
There was a greater  use of electricity during the repairs so far too, and the home  is also 
heated by electric  night  storage heaters. Having seen the electricity bills along  with some 
from the previous  year for comparison,  and taking into account other factors that influence  
the amount of usage, such as weather, Im satisfied that £50 provides reasonable 
compensation to Mrs S for electricity  likely  used  to reinstate the property. 
Mrs S has said that if the claim  had been  accepted at the outset, her family  would  have 
moved into the property  once it was reinstated and sold their other property. Im not satisfied 
this would most likely  have happened. I dont doubt what  Mrs S says they intended  to do but 
intentions dont always come to fruition and there  any many  influencing  factors  that may 
have come to bear to change or prevent  that plan. So Im not minded to take this into 
account in respect  of compensation.  
But Mrs S has explained  how stressful the decline of the claim and starting reinstatement 
works has been. This has had a significant impact on her family  life. In the circumstances Im 
satisfied that £500  compensation is fairly and reasonably due. 
Ref: DRN46758255my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Ageas  Insurance Limited to:
Carry out repairs or pay Mrs S to carry out repairs to finish  reinstatement work necessary 
at her property as result  of the water  leak taking into account my comments  above.
Reimburse Mrs S £868 for the re-boarding and re-plastering work already done, plus 
interest* from the date of payment until settlement is made.  
Reimburse Mrs S £2,285.51 for the materials and equipment purchased  to carry out 
reinstatement work,  plus interest* on any individual receipted  amounts for work that 
make up this total sum, from the date of each receipt and until settlement is made.
Pay Mrs S £50 as compensation for increased electricity usage  related to reinstating the 
property.
Pay Mrs S £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Ageas Insurance 
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mrs S, it should 
tell her how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs S a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4675825