K821x#15complaint
Ms G says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out with a mortgage in 2005. 
Ms G applied for the MPPI over the phone.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Gs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Ms Gs complaint because Santander recommended  the policy to her, 
but I dont think  it was suitable. Ms G had a medical  condition when she bought the policy  
which wouldnt have been covered.  
I dont think Ms G wouldve  bought  the policy if Santander had made  clear  it wasnt  right for 
her or if Santander had given her clear  enough  information about it. So, I think  Ms G has lost 
out because of what Santander did wrong. 
Ive taken into account Santanders comments,  including what  it said about the sales  
process  that any medical conditions wouldve been discussed and the limitations  of cover 
explained. But I still think I should uphold the complaint. 
The evidence available  in particular the needs and recommendations document, high level 
needs analysis  and customer profile,  which appear to be the only written records  of the 
discussions and advice  provided during the sales process  do not suggest that Ms Gs 
health was discussed. Nor do they suggest  that the exclusions relevant to her medical 
condition were clearly explained to her. While the policy summary document does mention 
the relevant exclusion, this is on page three  of the document,  is given no greater prominence 
than the other information, and was only provided  to Ms G after the sale was completed and 
the policy started.  By this time Ms G had already agreed to buy the PPI on the basis of 
Santanders recommendation. 
putting things right
Santander should put Ms G in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. Santander  should:
Pay Ms G the amount  she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.  
Ref: DRN49094962If Ms G made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Santander can take off what  she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Ms G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Gs complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms G to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4909496