K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs D says American Express Services Europe Limited  (American  Express) mis-sold 
her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I appreciate  Mrs D has been  waiting a long time for 
this answer and I understand that this will be a disappointment to her. Ill explain why Ive 
reached this outcome.
I think American Express  made  it clear  that Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out. I say this because Ive been  given a copy of the credit card application  
form and this includes a section about PPI. In this section there is a description about  the 
cover and a box to tick if PPI is required.  I can see that the box has been ticked on Mrs Ds 
form. Mrs D has signed the form which suggests  she agreed with everything  that had been 
entered. If Mrs D didnt  want  to take out the PPI she could have left the box blank.
As this application was completed by post, American Express  didnt recommend the PPI to 
Mrs D so it didnt have  to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs D got 
the information she needed  to decide  for herself  if it was right for her.
Its possible the information American Express gave Mrs D about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI by ticking  the box on the application 
form - so it looks  like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover - so it would have  been useful for her if something went wrong. 
From my knowledge, the cost of the PPI was comparable with other policies available 
elsewhere at that time. Ive seen copies  of statements that wouldve been sent to her, 
showing she had PPI. And as she was paying for it monthly, she could cancel it if her 
situation changed or she no longer wanted  it. So I dont think  better information about the 
PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Mrs D told us that when  she took out the policy she wasnt aware of the cover  she had in 
place with her employer and also that she had an insurance policy  she could have used.  So 
she says she now knows she didnt need the cover. Mrs D wasnt  able to recall what  her 
sickness benefits were with her employer  at the time of the sale. She has recently told us 
she was entitled  to sick pay for up to two years when she worked in a certain  occupation but 
this wasnt the employment she was in at the time of taking out the card. As I mentioned  
previously, American  Express  didnt  recommend  the PPI so it was for Mrs D to decide  if the 
policy was useful for her, based on what she already knew about her benefits. But I think its 
important to point  out that this policy would have paid out in addition  to any sick pay Mrs D 
may have  received and potentially for longer as it provided cover  for up to 24 months. So 
this doesnt alter my outcome
Ref: DRN45916692And in relation to the insurance policy Mrs D said she had, it does  appear  that this would 
have provided  some  benefit  in the event  that Mrs D was unable  to work due to sickness. But 
from the information she has provided  to us it appears that this policy was cancelled  in 1997, 
five years before taking  out this credit  card and PPI policy. 
Ive seen that Mrs D has made  a number of different points  during the time her complaint 
has been with our service  and in particular has referred to a time when she was unable to 
work in 2010 and that she has been  unable to make a claim for that event. This decision 
deals with the mis-sale  of the policy and so I am not in a position to provide an outcome on 
that matter. Im aware  that both American Express and our adjudicator  have provided Mrs D 
with information  on how to make a retrospective claim. If Mrs D does contact the relevant 
underwriters of the policy they will be able to inform  her if she can claim  for this event.
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs D paid on her PPI  and whether American 
Express treated her unfairly.  
American Express has told us that the commission for Mrs Ds PPI was less than half of 
what she paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how American Express has been working 
this out and based on what  weve seen  it looks like its right  Mrs Ds commission  was less 
than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think  it needed  to tell her about the 
commission  so I dont  think  American  Express treated her unfairly. This means it doesnt 
need to pay Mrs D back any of the commission she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4591669