K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes their agents.
background
Mr A took out car insurance  with Admiral in February  2018.  On 1 March  2018, his car was 
involved in an accident and was deemed  a total loss.
As there was no longer  a car to be insured, Admiral  said they cancelled the policy on 
3 March 2018. On 13 March, Mr As policy was reinstated  and amended to insure his 
replacement car. But, that same  day, Admiral told Mr A that they had made a mistake.  They  
initially told him the premium for his amended policy would be around  £150 a month but they 
later changed that to around £300  a month. Mr A asked for the policy to be cancelled. 
Admiral said because the policy was cancelled and he had an outstanding claim, he had to 
pay the balance  of the full years premium which was under £1,700.
When settling Mr As claim Admiral said they looked at three car industry trade guides to 
decide the pre-accident market value  of Mr As car. They initially  valued the car at £1,610.  
But, after Mr A challenged  the valuation, Admiral increased it to £1,850, which  was the 
highest valuation  of the three trade guides.  And after deducting  the £550 policy excess they 
paid Mr A £1,300.
Mr A complained. He was unhappy about various aspects of Admirals  service. He said the 
accident wasnt his fault; Admirals  valuation of his car was too low; he shouldnt have been 
charged a £550  policy  excess; it was unfair for Admiral to ask him to pay almost £1,700  on 
cancellation of his policy; Admiral changed the premium of his reinstated  policy;  and the 
service he received was poor. Admiral paid Mr A £75 compensation in acknowledgement  
that their service could  have been  better. But on the whole they said they hadnt done  
anything wrong. Mr A felt that was unfair so he brought his complaint to our service. One of 
our adjudicators looked into it. He felt that Admiral had dealt with Mr A fairly.  As Mr A didnt 
agree with our adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 14 May 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold it in part. Ill explain  why.
liability for the accident
Under the policy, Admiral  have the discretion to settle claims as they feel appropriate 
without the need to get Mr As agreement. But I expect them  to exercise  that 
discretion in a fair and reasonable way. While I think Admiral could have handled 
things better, I believe their decision to not pursue any other party  in relation to the 
accident and to record a fault claim against  Mr A was reasonable.
Mr A said he was driving on a motorway when  his car skidded and hit either a barrier  
or fence.  He said it was as a result of adverse  weather conditions and there was ice 
Ref: DRN45664002and snow on the road.  Mr A said there  was also a bend in the road but there were no 
signs warning motorists  of it. Mr A felt that the authority responsible  for gritting  the 
road and ensuring  it was safe to drive  on was responsible for the roads condition. He 
also felt the highway  agency was also to blame for the lack of signs  warning about 
the bend.
When Mr A reported the accident and explained  what happened,  Admirals  claims 
handler said the local authority had no obligation  to grit the road.  She also said the 
accident would be recorded as a fault claim against  Mr A because  Admiral couldnt 
recover their outlay  (what they paid to settle Mr As claim)  from another party. Mr A 
didnt agree and he said the accident wasnt his fault.
When Admiral  later looked into Mr As complaint, they partially  upheld  this part of it 
on two specific grounds.  The first was that Admirals  claims handler was mistaken in 
saying Admiral couldnt make a claim against  another party.  Admiral  said they 
potentially could claim against the local council  in the location of where the accident 
happened.
Secondly, Admiral  accepted that they had mis-informed Mr A when they said the 
council didnt have  to grit the roads. Admiral referred  to an amendment to the 
Highways Act 1980 section 41(1A): which says a highway authority is under a duty 
to ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, that safe passage along a highway is 
not endangered by snow  or ice. But having  considered all the circumstances, 
despite their being  a possibility of Admiral claiming  against the local authority and/or 
the highway authority,  Admiral decided they wouldnt do so because  the chances  of 
success were  too low.
Admiral said, and Mr A agreed, that at the time of the accident the country was 
experiencing extreme weather conditions in the form of snow  and ice not seen for 
many years. Admiral concluded the councils  resources  would  have been  stretched to 
their limits and it wouldnt have been possible  for them to clear  or grit all roads. 
Admiral drew attention  to the term in the Highways Act that said so far as is 
reasonably practicable. So, while Admiral felt the highway  authority  had a duty to 
ensure it was safe to drive on the road they said the law recognised that in some 
circumstances that wasnt  possible.  Admiral said ultimately it was Mr A who had lost 
control of his car. And given the weather conditions he should have adapted his 
driving accordingly. I have  seen  Admirals file notes and its clear  that they have 
given a lot of thought and consideration to the relevant law on this point. And they 
concluded there was little chance of success if they took the matter to court. I 
therefore think their decision was reasonable. Im therefore not intending to uphold  
this aspect of the complaint.
It is of course unfortunate that because of the claim Mr As no claims  bonus  (NCB) 
has been impacted  and he has a fault claim against his driving record which  he must 
disclose when taking  out motor insurance in the future. It might help if I explain that 
the term fault claim can be somewhat misleading.  In the context of motor insurance  
it doesnt necessarily  mean  that the policyholder was to blame  for the accident.  It 
means that the policyholders insurer paid for a claim but couldnt  recover their costs 
from another party. So, for example,  if Mr As car was properly parked by the side of 
the road and another car crashed into it and drove off without leaving their insurance 
details. If Mr A claimed on his policy and his insurer repaired his car but couldnt 
recover that cost from the other drivers insurer, that too would be recorded as a fault 
Ref: DRN45664003claim against Mr A, even thought hed clearly be blameless for the event that gave 
rise to the claim. So, I think Admiral have settled  and recorded the claim fairly.
Finally, I should say that Mr A is free to get his own legal advice to see if he can 
successfully take action against any other party he feels  was responsible for the 
accident. If he does  that and he is successful  in proving another party  was to blame, 
then he could ask Admiral to reconsider their position in relation to how the claim has 
been recorded.
total loss valuation
Mr As policy  says that where his car is a total loss, Admiral  must pay him the pre-
accident market  value of it. I feel that the starting  point when trying  to establish the 
market value of a car is to look at the industry accepted  trade guides, and that is 
what Admiral did. The guides are based on extensive nationwide  research of likely 
selling prices.
Admiral looked at three of the guides. They gave the following valuations:  £1,435,  
£1,610 and £1,850.  Its usual that the guides give different  valuations.  And where that 
happens we expect an average of the three to be used. The average of the three in 
this case would have  been £1,631 (£1,435 + £1,610 + £1,850 / 3). Admiral  initially  
valued Mr As car at £1,610,  which  was just below the average. But Admiral  later 
increased their valuation to £1,850, which I think was reasonable as it is well above 
the average.
We also expect insurers to take into consideration any other relevant information, 
where necessary,  to help them in reaching a fair valuation. I also note that when Mr A 
reported the accident and he was asked by Admirals claims handler what he 
believed the value of his car was. He said he felt it was worth  £1,800.  Admiral  paid 
him more  than that. And Ive not been provided  with any convincing  evidence to show 
that Admirals valuation wasnt reasonable. Im therefore not intending to uphold this 
part of the complaint.
the cancellation of the policy  and Admirals demand  for the full premium
Mr As policy  was a contract of insurance.  And the agreement he had with Admiral 
was for cover  to be provided for a year. In exchange Mr A agreed to pay Admiral a 
premium for the whole year.  Rather  than pay up front, Mr A chose to pay in monthly 
instalments after he took out credit to finance  his policy. The policy said that if Mr A 
made a claim on his policy the whole premium would become payable  and he 
wouldnt be entitled to a refund if he cancelled the policy. That is usual practice in 
almost all car insurance policies.
Mr As policy  also said that in the event his car was deemed a total loss, Admiral 
would cancel his policy. That again  is usual insurance industry  practice. Thats 
because once a car is a total loss it can no longer be insured. And the purpose  of the 
policy is to insure that car. But we think its good practice for an insurer to allow their 
policyholder to replace the lost car, within a reasonable time, with another car on the 
same policy.  To do that the policy will have  to be amended to take account of the 
new car. As a change  of car is significant  the insurer will recalculate the premium  
based on the details of the replacement car. That recalculation might  lead to an 
increase or reduction in the annual premium which will take immediate effect. And 
Ref: DRN45664004where that happens and the policyholder is paying in instalments, like Mr A was, the 
monthly payments  are likely  to change.  But not all changes in circumstances will 
cause an immediate change to the premium.  For example, Mr As accident was a 
change in his circumstances. Admiral considered the accident to be Mr As fault but 
until they made that decision  the claim remained open. So, his status changed from 
not having an open claim to having  one. And for the purposes of calculating  
premiums, open claims are treated as though they are fault claims and often  cause a 
premium to cost more. Open claims like fault claims also impact a policyholders 
NCB. But when  a claim is made during  a policy year (known as mid-term) it will not 
impact the policy  or the premium until the policy is due to renew. And in Mr As case  
Admiral told him that the claim he made on his policy wouldnt impact the cost of his 
premium during the current  policy year.
When he reported the accident  it became clear  very early on that the car was a total 
loss. Ive listened to 19 call recordings Admiral have provided. During  a call on 
3 March 2018, Mr A told Admirals claims handler that he intended to get a 
replacement car. But when it was clear  his damaged car was a total loss the claims 
handler said the policy was now cancelled. Knowing Mr A intended to get a 
replacement car I think the claims handler should  have advised him that he could get 
a replacement car and insure it on the same  policy. The accident had happened  a 
month into the policy, so by cancelling the policy Mr A would have  had to pay for the 
remaining 11 months without benefitting from cover during that time. Admiral  told 
Mr A that they would value his car and deduct the policy excess of £550 and the 
outstanding annual premium, which was under £1,700, from the total loss settlement. 
Mr A didnt think that was fair because the accident wasnt his fault.
Mr A and Admiral had a number of conversations on 9, 12 and 13 March 2018.  By 
9 March Mr A had complained. He was unhappy  about a number of things, including 
that Admiral hadnt  already told him what the total loss settlement  amount was for his 
car.
I understand from Mr A that sometime between 3 and 12 March  he bought another 
car which he insured  with another insurer. When Mr A spoke with Admiral  on 
12 March one of their claims handlers  made  a suggestion  to Mr A to avoid him 
having to pay for the remainder of the policy year without benefitting from cover.  She 
said if Mr A bought a replacement car Admiral would  amend his policy  and add the 
car to it. That way when  they pay him the total loss settlement for his damaged car 
only the £550 policy excess would be deducted from his settlement and not the full 
remaining premium balance that was under £1,700. I think at that stage that call 
handler wasnt aware that Admiral had already cancelled Mr As policy  on 3 March.  
Mr A responded by confirming to the claims handler  what he understood from what  
she had told him. He said he understood that if he replaced the car on his existing 
policy he could continue  paying his existing premium in instalments. He then asked 
how much  the premium would be for the replacement car. The call handler said the 
cost of the premium  would be dependent  on the replacement car. She said the cost 
could be higher than what he was currently paying  or it could go down and he might  
be entitled to a refund. But she gave an example saying a replacement  car with a 
bigger engine might cost more to insure.  Mr A understood  that and then asked for a 
quote for his replacement  car. But he said he was concerned  that the quote would be 
high because Admiral  were holding him at fault for the accident. The claims handler  
then reassured  Mr A that for the purposes of insuring the replacement car on his 
policy the claim wouldnt be taken  into consideration. The only thing that would be 
Ref: DRN45664005taken into consideration was the replacement cars details. Mr A challenged the 
claims handler and he said that when he called  the previous week  to get a quote on a 
replacement car Admiral had quoted him a high premium and that they told him that 
was because he had the open claim relating to the accident on 1 March.
The claims handler said maybe that happened because Mr A mistakenly spoke with 
the new business team who would have treated it as a quote for a new policy, which 
is why they may have  taken into consideration the open claim. But I think  its possible 
that because Admiral cancelled Mr As policy on 3 March, when he called 
subsequent to that date to get a quote on what was for him a replacement car, 
Admiral treated that as a new quote  for a new policy. And because it was a quote for 
a new policy  they took into account  the open  claim from 1 March. But during the call 
on 12 March the claims  handler  again  said that the open claim wouldnt be taken into 
consideration for the purposes of calculating the premium for the replacement car 
because he already had a current policy with Admiral which was going to be 
amended. Mr A then told the claims handler  that he had the details  of the 
replacement car with him so he wanted  a quote. But the claims handler said she 
could not generate a quote and that Mr A would  have to speak with customer  
services to get the quote. During that call the claims  handler tried to transfer  Mr A to 
customer services  but as they were closed the claims handler said she would put a 
note on the system to advise the customer services  team of what  needed  to be done. 
She said she would text Mr A the customer services number for him to call them the 
following day to get a quote  for the replacement car.
Admiral havent provided me with all the call recordings as some are missing. But 
during a call on 13 March (call number 12) Mr A got through to the claims department 
and referred to the conversation he had on 12 March. He said he wanted  a quote for 
a replacement car. The call handler said they would have to transfer Mr A to the 
customer services  team  for the quote.  And during the internal discussion between  the 
claims handler and the customer  services  team, the claims handler said Mr A wanted  
to reactivate his policy. That suggests to me that his policy  remained cancelled  from 
3 to 12 March.
The next call in the sequence  hasnt  been  provided  to me but its clear that Mr A did 
speak with customer services and they did give him a quote.  They  quoted him a 
premium of around £150 a month  for his replacement car. Mr A was happy with that 
as it was around the same amount he was paying  for his damaged  car. So, Mr A 
accepted that quote; cancelled the policy he had with a different  insurer  for the 
replacement car having  paid a cancellation fee of £55; and then amended  his 
reinstated Admiral  policy to continue cover on his replacement car. But later, on 
13 March (call number  15), the same customer services handler called Mr A back. 
He told Mr A that Admiral  had made  a mistake when they quoted  him around £150 a 
month for the replacement car. The customer services handler said after he gave 
Mr A the quote, he spoke  with the claims team and as a result  Admiral would have to 
increase the premium to around £300 a month. Although Ive listened to that call 
carefully the reasons given by the customer services handler  for the doubling  of the 
premium isnt clear. What is clear however  is that Admiral accept they made  a 
mistake and they increased the premium as a result of a discussion with the claims 
team. The customer services handler said: he was told by the claims team that there 
was still an outstanding amount of £1,582 due on Mr As policy relating to his 
damaged car that wouldnt be deducted from the total loss settlement; and that the 
increase in premium  was because his claim from 1 March hadnt been finalised. Mr A 
Ref: DRN45664006said he was told the open claim wouldnt impact the premium for his replacement car. 
Mr A said the doubling of the premium meant he would be paying for two policies, 
one for the original  policy for the damaged car and the second for the policy  for the 
replacement car. The customer  services handler replied by saying Mr A would be 
receiving a settlement  cheque for his total loss claim and that because the 1 March  
claim was still open the remaining outstanding  balance at the moment  is held with 
us. I understand what he meant by that was the remaining outstanding annual  
premium for the original  policy  was still due.
Its not clear to me if at that stage on 13 March whether Mr A had one or two active  
policies. But given  what had happened,  Mr A asked Admiral to cancel his policy. And 
I understand he insured his replacement car elsewhere. But Admiral  continued  to 
pursue Mr A for the outstanding premium for the full policy year. Admiral have told 
our service  that the final total loss valuation  of his car was £1,850. From that they 
deducted the £550 excess  which means  they paid him £1,350 (£1,850  £550). Ive 
referred to the amount of the premium Admiral  have said is outstanding as under 
£1,700 because Admiral have given  a number of different figures for that, including  
£1,683, 1643.13 and 1229.23. So, its not clear  to me what  the correct  amount they 
are asking Mr A to pay is.
Its clear to me that something went wrong on Admirals part that led to the confusion 
and caused the policy to be cancelled.  As a result,  Mr A wasnt able to use around 
11 months of his policy yet Admiral  asked him to pay for that period. Ordinarily, 
because Admiral paid Mr As total loss claim on his policy and they werent  able to 
recover their costs  from another  party they would have been entitled to the full annual 
premium. But Admiral  clearly agreed to reinstate and then amend the policy  and to 
continue cover on a replacement car. Although  what Admirals  customer  services  
handler told Mr A on 13 March was confusing, it seems to me that Admiral made a 
mistake by taking into consideration the 1 March claim when  quoting  for the 
replacement car which  increased the premium. And they clearly shouldnt  have done 
that because as they categorically told Mr A, and as is usual insurance industry 
practice, a claim (open, fault or non-fault)  isnt taken into consideration mid-term but 
only on renewal.  But it may also be the case that Admiral set up a second  policy  to 
cover the replacement car and the increased  premium they quoted  him covered  both 
policies. But Admiral  havent explained what happened.
I think my opinion  as to where the confusion and mistake  on Admirals part occurred 
is reinforced in their final response  letter  to Mr A dated 21 September  2018. Its also 
evident from that letter that Admiral  havent clearly  understood the crux of Mr As 
complaint. Even though a number of calls are missing, I was only able to understand 
the full extent of the issues, only after I carefully  listened to all 19 calls provided to 
me. And that is why I was insistent on being provided those calls.
Under heading 2 in their September letter Admiral identified Mr As concern as You 
are unhappy  that your premium has gone  up due to this fault claim. Under that 
heading Admiral  explained their risk rating  factors and how claims could have  an 
impact on premium prices. But that wasnt what Mr A complained  about. His 
complaint was that he was categorically  told that: Admiral would reinstate his policy; 
they would  amend it to include a replacement car; that his open claim from 1 March 
would have no impact  whatsoever on the amended policy and the premium to be 
charged for the replacement car. But despite  Mr A following  Admirals  instructions, 
they initially quoted him a revised premium for his replacement  car that was similar to 
Ref: DRN45664007his original premium, which Mr A was happy  with, only to then double the premium as 
a result of a mistake which they havent  fully explained. But it appears that the 
mistake involved taking  into consideration the open claim which  shouldnt  have 
happened. I think that if Admiral didnt make the mistakes they did Mr A would have 
had his replacement  car insured under his original policy at a cost similar to what he 
was originally paying. And he would have benefitted  from the remaining 11 months  of 
his policy. Instead  he had to insure  his replacement car elsewhere. And if he is now 
made to pay the outstanding premium for his cancelled Admiral policy that will mean 
he has paid for cover  during that period  twice,  which isnt fair.
Im therefore  intending to uphold this aspect of Mr As complaint. I intend to require 
Admiral to stop pursuing Mr A for what they say is the outstanding premium  due on 
his policy. This matter has been ongoing for over two years and its clear from the 
calls Ive listened to that Mr A has suffered  distress  and inconvenience  and has at 
times been extremely upset and frustrated. He has dealt with a number of different 
call handlers, he has spent substantial  amounts  of time on the phone and he has 
been given inconsistent and incorrect information. Admiral  have  already  accepted  
their service  could have been  better  which is why they paid him £75 compensation. 
But I dont think that goes far enough  to address the impact of the distress and 
inconvenience Mr A has experienced.  I therefore intend to require Admiral  to pay 
Mr A an additional £500  compensation.
Finally, although  its clear that Mr A wanted  the policy cancelled he later questioned 
whether he or Admiral  had cancelled the policy. And further to my comments above, 
it appears to me that at one stage there  may have been two active policies  for Mr A, 
one for the original  damaged car and the other  for the replacement car. I therefore  
require Admiral to confirm how many policies they had active for Mr A and how they 
have recorded  the cancellation(s). If not already done so, the policy (or policies if 
there were two) should be recorded  as having been cancelled  by Mr A and not 
Admiral. Because  if cancelled by Admiral its possible that may reflect  negatively  on 
Mr A when taking out insurance in the future. Thats because  some insurers dont 
insure a customer who has had a policy cancelled by an insurer.
poor treatment based on Mr As race or nationality
One of Mr As complaints was that he was treated badly by Admirals  staff because 
he was a foreigner  and because he had an accent.  While I agree that the service 
Mr A received was poor, Ive found  no evidence whatsoever that he was treated 
badly because of his race, nationality or his accent. Im therefore  not intending to 
uphold this part of the complaint.
The parties were invited to comment on my provisional findings. Mr A accepted my 
provisional decision. Admiral didnt and said the following:
Mr A only had one policy  with Admiral not two.
When they quoted Mr A a monthly  premium  of approximately  £150  for his 
replacement car on 13 March 2018, they based  it on the outstanding premium  
having been deducted from the total loss offer, not realising it had not, however, the 
handler called the customer back within an hour to explain this and provide the 
correct monthly  instalment figures.  The error  was rectified  within an hour.
Mr A complained about the mistake made about  the cost of the premium  for the 
replacement car and Admiral sent him a final response  letter  dated  12 July 2018.
Ref: DRN45664008When Admiral quoted Mr A for the replacement  car the open claim for the total loss of 
his original  car was not rated on.
As there was a fault claim on the policy the full premium was due.
Admiral provided me with a recording of a call that took place on 13 March 2018, between  
Mr A and one of Admirals  customer care representative. The call lasted just over 
32 minutes. It recorded the discussion that resulted in Admiral  amending  the policy to cover 
Mr As replacement  car at a cost of approximately £150 a month.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same. But I will respond to Admirals further  comments as follows:
The service  Mr A received  from Admiral  was poor and he was given a lot of inconsistent 
information. It was made clear to him that if he decided to insure his replacement  car on the 
policy, he wouldnt be charged anything  relating  to the open  claim relating to the total loss of 
his car. Thats because the amendment to insure  his replacement  car was a mid-term 
adjustment and the open claim  wasnt something that would impact the premium mid-term, 
as Admiral have once again confirmed  in their response to my provisional decision.
But when Admirals  customer  care representative  called Mr A back  on 13 March 2018, and 
said the monthly premium  was being changed  from approximately £150 to around £300, no 
proper explanation was given. In fact, the representative said it was somehow  connected  to 
the fact that the claim on the policy was still open. Admiral have provided me with a copy  of 
their final response letter  to Mr A dated 12 July 2018. In that Admiral  accepted  they changed 
the monthly premium  from around £150  to £300, but they didnt explain why.
In their comments in response to my provisional decision, Admiral  said the £150 a month  
price given to Mr A for the replacement  car was based on the outstanding premium having 
been deducted from the total loss offer, not realising it had not...  What  I understand Admiral 
to mean  by that is as follows: The outstanding  premium on the policy was around £1,600; 
after the total loss claim  Admiral cancelled the policy and told Mr A he had to pay the 
outstanding premium; when Admiral  reinstated the policy  to allow  for the replacement  car to 
be added, Admiral thought that they had deducted the outstanding premium from the total 
loss settlement to be paid to Mr A; the outstanding  premium  amounted  to around half the 
cost of the revised annual premium for the replacement car; and because  Admiral thought 
they had deducted that they only gave Mr A a price of around £150  a month which  was the 
balance of the total cost of the revised  premium. That was never  explained to Mr A. And if 
that is indeed  Admirals position it was inappropriate of them to not explain the full cost of the 
premium before he agreed to take it out. And once Admiral called Mr A and told him the 
premium would double,  the reason wasnt explained to him. Nor was it explained in the final 
response letter of 12 July 2018.
But Admirals explanation in their response to my provisional decision,  if my understanding 
as explained above is correct, is at odds with the reasons they gave in their final response 
letter to Mr A dated 21 September 2018. In that letter Admiral said the open  claim 
contributed  to your renewal premium increasing  as the incident is considered a rating 
factor. So, Admiral appear to have  given two different reasons as to why Mr As premium on 
the replacement  car almost doubled.  Given the poor service  and inconsistent information 
Ref: DRN45664009Admiral have given  Mr A, I dont think they treated him reasonably. Im therefore upholding 
this complaint in part.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint  in part and require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited  to:
Stop pursuing Mr A for what they say is the outstanding premium  due on his policy.
Pay Mr A £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has 
experienced. This amount  is in addition to the £75 compensation Admiral have 
already paid. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr A has 
accepted my final decision. If they pay later than that they must also pay interest on 
that amount  from the date of my final decision to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% 
a year simple.i
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept
or reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
i If Admiral consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, they should tell Mr A how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr A a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4566400