K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited took over five months to send him a claim 
form when he wanted to make a claim for unemployment on his mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
This complaint was originally set up against  the insurance intermediary, which  was the bank 
that sold Mr N the policy.  But it has been  explained to Mr N that, because that intermediarys 
handling of the claim  was on behalf of the insurer, the complaint has to be set up and 
determined against  the insurer itself. That is why the complaint is now set up against  Aviva,  
who has accepted  responsibility for it.
background
Mr N became unemployed  in August 2012  and first contacted Aviva in September  2012. He 
then contacted Aviva again in October, November and December 2012 and again  in January 
2013. It wasnt until Mr N wrote  to Aviva again in February 2013  that he received a 
substantive response. Mr N was finally sent a claim form on 14 February  2013.
In response to Mr Ns complaint about poor service, Aviva acknowledged  its failure  to act on 
Mr Ns requests and it offered him £100 compensation in recognition of the delay he 
experienced. Mr N did not accept  the offer of compensation  and did not cash the cheque that 
Aviva sent to him.
Our adjudicator noted that Mr N had failed  to follow the correct procedure  for making  a claim 
as stated in the policy  document. If he had called the number as advised, he would have 
reached the claim team at Aviva. Instead,  Mr N contacted the intermediary  in writing. She 
found that the intermediary should have dealt with the matter better but that ultimately Mr N 
hadnt suffered  any further detriment as the delay had made no difference  to his situation. 
She therefore thought that Avivas  offer of £100 was reasonable.
Mr N disagrees  with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns complaint and Ill explain why.
The adjudication for this complaint was sent out in October 2014. The reason for the delay in 
writing this decision is that it has been  dependant on the outcome of another of Mr Ns 
complaints that hes made to this service.  That complaint has now been closed.
This complaint is essentially  that the five month  delay in sending  Mr N an unemployment  
claim form delayed the processing  of his claim by that amount of time and prevented  him 
from receiving  the benefit payable  under the policy at the earliest  possible opportunity. But 
whether or not the delay  caused Mr N detriment is dependent on whether  his claim would 
have succeeded  and, if so, how much sooner it would have been paid out. Aviva initially 
declined the claim, and without going  into too much unnecessary detail,  the issue of the 
claim itself became the subject of two separate  complaints that Mr N has made to this 
Ref: DRN45576692service. An ombudsman colleague issued his final decision on the second complaint  last 
month. Therefore  I am now in a position  to issue a decision  on this complaint about delay. 
My colleague did not uphold  the complaint about  Mr Ns claim and to date Aviva has not paid 
out on the claim.
Mr N has said he suffered  financial  hardship  due to the delay in sending out the claim forms 
because he had to fund his living expenses and financial  commitments  through  the use of a 
large overdraft, credit  cards  and by borrowing money. But Aviva didnt immediately accept 
the claim,  and as I have said, Mr N has now had an ombudsmans final decision about his 
claim complaint ruling that it is reasonable that Aviva has still not paid out on it. So my view 
is that Mr N is in no worse position now than he would have been in if the unemployment 
claim form had been sent to him at his initial request  in September  2012. As the claim wasnt  
immediately payable, Mr N would still have had to find other  ways  to meet  his outgoings.
I accept that it must have  been very frustrating for Mr N to repeatedly ask for a claim form 
and to receive no response. But I think that the £100  that Aviva  has offered him (via its 
intermediary) is enough to compensate Mr N for the delay. It follows that I do not uphold 
Mr Ns complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ns complaint. But Aviva  Insurance Limited should 
now make  arrangements to send  Mr N the £100  it originally offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4557669