K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Legal & General Assurance Society  Limited wrongly 
recommended they invest £50,000  in a portfolio bond in 2006 when they already had a 
substantial portion of their money in risk-based  investments. 
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 13 February 2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision. 
Both parties  confirmed that they had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the reasons outlined in my provisional 
decision I am satisfied this complaint should be upheld with compensation as outlined  in that 
decision.
I therefore instruct L & G to pay compensation on the basis  that Mr and Mrs A should have 
been advised to only put in 50% of the money they invested in the property fund and none of 
their money in the MGHY corporate bond.  
This means  L & G needs to compare the returns Mr and Mrs A received  on these portions of 
their invested money with what they might have got via a more suitable low risk product. 
To do this it should use the formula known as 50/50,  and recommended  by this service in 
these circumstances.  That is, an equal combination of the returns  on Bank of England  bonds  
of 12 to 17 months maturity and the returns shown by the FTSE Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index.
If this comparison shows a loss L & G must  this, and add 8% simple interest per annum to 
the loss figure from the date of surrender to the date of settlement of this complaint.
my final decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Legal  and General Assurance Society 
Limited to pay compensation as outlined above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN44385862provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Legal & General Assurance Society  Limited wrongly  recommended they 
invest £50,000 in a portfolio  bond in 2006 when  they already  had a substantial portion of their money  
in risk-based investments. 
background
At the time of advice Mr A was retired and drawing  a modest pension; Mrs A was earning  a modest 
salary and they had a healthy surplus  income each month with no debts. Their recorded attitude to 
risk was cautious.
They had more  than £300,000 in savings and assets  just over half (£156,000)  in risk-free deposit 
accounts, with 3/5ths  of the rest in broadly cautious risk rated products and 2/5ths in moderate risk 
rated products.  They  said they felt they already had a high exposure  to stocks and shares  and didnt 
want to increase this so were open to other asset classes.
The advisor  recommended that they each  invest £25,000  in a portfolio bond, designed for growth and 
inheritance tax mitigation  - with 50% placed in a property fund, described  as moderate risk, and 25% 
each in two corporate bond funds, described  as cautious.
An adjudicator at this service felt their complaint should  be upheld.
She said that one of the corporate bond funds, the MGHY, was likely  to have exposed Mr and Mrs As 
money to far more than a cautious level of risk given it invested 80% of their money  in bonds issued 
by companies with low credit ratings and denominated in territories  across the globe (posing currency 
fluctuation risks). She also noted that the fund was referred to as moderate rather  than cautious in 
some literature. She felt the other corporate bond fund was suitably cautious in nature.
She felt the property fund posed as much risk as many  equity funds, with a significant  risk of capital 
reduction as well as fund suspensions and embargoes on withdrawals  and noted that none of these 
risks were  mentioned in the suitability  report. She felt this also posed more  than a cautious  risk to 
investors capital.
Overall she felt Mr and Mrs A were, or would  have  been  happy  to invest this £50,000 in an equal 
balance of cautious and moderate risk products  but that this recommendation exposed this money to 
a roughly 75/25 split in favour of the higher risk end.
If only £12,500, half of the £25,000, had been placed in the property fund, she felt this would  have 
been a reasonable  recommendation overall. She therefore  recommended L & G pay compensation by 
comparing the return  Mr and Mrs A got on half the amount invested in the property fund with what  
they could have got via a more suitable low risk investment. To do this it should use the standard  low 
risk formula  recommended by this service, which she outlined.
L & G did not agree, and said:
The adjudicator said Mr and Mrs A claimed  they shouldnt have been advised  to make any 
more risk-based  investments given their existing  exposure. But their representative said they 
were advised  to take too much risk given they had limited experience  and knowledge  of risk 
based investments, something which  was clearly not the case
At the point of sale they held around 29% of their assets in cautious risk investments and a 
further 20% in moderate  risk investments.  The advisors suitability report noted that Mr and 
Mrs A "have  vast investment experience within [their]  portfolio "
Ref: DRN44385863They  enjoyed  a sizeable excess of income  over expenditure, had no debts and very 
considerable liquid  assets
Their representative describes the £50,000 earmarked for investment as coming from a 
redundancy payment  but its records  indicate  it was more  readily described as a combination 
of savings accumulated  over the years plus some portion of a redundancy payment (amount 
unknown) from a while back
At the point of sale Mr and Mrs A were correctly identified as having an overall  cautious risk 
portfolio - despite holding assets totalling some £63,000 in moderate risk investment products
They  therefore accepted  that within  an overall cautious risk portfolio  they were happy to hold 
assets that were individually deemed higher risk on the understanding that, overall, they 
maintained a cautious risk outlook
 Mr and Mrs A were  prepared to invest some of this money into higher than cautious risk 
funds or products providing their overall portfolio remained  cautious risk but were  looking to 
avoid further exposure to equities
Its advisor therefore recommended they invest  in two different asset classes under-
represented in their existing portfolio. Commercial Property  (deemed moderate risk) and 
corporate bonds (deemed cautious  risk) 
The addition  of these  investments meant they continued to hold an overall  cautious risk 
portfolio whilst adding some much needed  diversification
Mr and Mrs A did not want  a cautious risk across  the whole of their new £50,000 investment 
Commercial Property  is generally accepted to have a negative correlation with equity 
performance; crucially it added diversity to their portfolio; ditto the corporate bonds
It doesnt  accept that the MGHY fund should be considered moderate as opposed to cautious 
risk
The L & G Property  Fund  has never been suspended or gated and continued  to trade even 
in the aftermath of the Brexit vote - albeit with a Fair Value Pricing  Adjustment
As a result of this advice, Mr and Mrs A increased their exposure to cautious risk investments 
from 29% to 39% of their portfolio and their exposure to moderate risk investments from 20% 
to 26% of their portfolio
They  retained £106,000 in cash  and theres no suggestion that they would ever become  
"forced sellers" in a negative market or that any losses  would have had an adverse effect  on 
their standard of living
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that a number of Mr and Mrs As representatives  claims do not appeared to be supported by 
the evidence. However, my role and that of the adjudicator, is to assess whether, on the balance  of 
probabilities, the advisors recommendations were suitable given  Mr and Mrs As circumstances, 
declared intentions and likely attitude  to risk.
Ref: DRN44385864There is room  for dispute  over the technical meaning of terms such  as cautious  and moderate, and 
can clearly  mean different  things to different people, so I dont  intend to try and reach a verdict on the 
precise risk level of the three funds and whether these precisely matched Mr and Mrs As recorded  
risk attitude.
I also think  its important to clarify that while  L & G may be right in saying that Mr and Mrs A may have 
been in a position to cope with the risk and potential loss posed by this mix of investments, the more 
important consideration is how much risk they wanted to take with this money  and whether  the 
recommendation matched this. i.e. what they wanted.
In this case, the overall size of their assets and existing  investment mix is only of limited relevance  
when considering the suitability  of this advice. The existing investments were taken  out some years 
earlier when Mr and Mrs A were younger and at a time when  Mr A was probably still in work. I also 
have no idea whether these were suitable at the time or remained so by 2006. I cannot therefore say 
whether their existing mix of no-risk, low risk and moderate risk investments was appropriate at the 
time of this advice.  So their existing portfolio is not a major factor in assessing  the merits of this 
complaint.
The fact find and suitability  letter, along with Mr and Mrs As historic  decision to keep  a large amount 
of their money in cash  accounts, demonstrates that they had a cautious, and arguably very cautious 
attitude to taking a risk with their money.  The advisor acknowledges this at the start of his suitability  
letter confirming that their existing portfolio was cautious in nature and that they wanted any new 
recommendations to be similarly so.
But he then says:  I have  explained to you the benefits of creating a portfolio of investments that carry  
different levels of risk, despite there being no evidence that Mr and Mrs A were looking for products 
with anything other than a low or cautious risk. So from the outset I think  he conflates  their willingness 
to spread their asset  mix beyond  stocks and shares with, in his view, the need to have products with 
differing risk levels.
I am also concerned  about his references to Mr and Mrs A being prepared to access new investments 
with a higher  than cautious  risk as long as their overall portfolio remained  cautious. Firstly, I dont 
think it is generally accepted that a client looking for cautious investments should, in general, be 
recommended any products  with a higher risk exposure. 
Secondly, the only way the advisor could  in theory - have sought  to retain this so-called cautious 
level of risk overall is to have recommended putting some of the £50,000 in risk-free products. 
Instead, he only recommended products which each said posed  either  a cautious or moderate risk 
which, by definition,  could not deliver an overall  cautious level of risk. To clarify, from my reading of 
the documentation the term moderate was comparable with the more common terms of balanced or 
medium. The three options listed being cautious, moderate and high.
Taking account of Mr and Mrs As existing  profile, their ages and apparent  objectives, along  with the 
advisors overall conclusion that they were looking to expose this £50,000 to a cautious level of 
investment risk, I am satisfied that all the recommendations should have been clearly cautious in 
nature.
In this context, I agree with the adjudicator  that the MGHY fund was not compatible  with Mr and Mrs 
As objectives  and for the same reasons. This was not a typically  low risk corporate bond according 
to independent investor advice. So if the advisor  thought,  as he recorded  in his suitability letter,  that it 
was a suitably low risk product for Mr and Mrs A, then I think he needed  to explain the specific and 
additional risks posed by a corporate bond specialising in businesses with low credit ratings and with 
foreign currency  risks. Had he done so, I do not believe  Mr and Mrs A wouldve agreed to this 
recommendation.
I also do not think  the property fund was likely  to be entirely suitable for Mr and Mrs Gs declared risk 
attitude. The original documentation indicates  that L & G accepted it posed a moderate (i.e. medium) 
Ref: DRN44385865level of risk to investors  capital.  And I dont believe it has disputed this during  this complaints 
process.
Despite this I accept that Mr and Mrs G were keen to diversify their portfolio and the advisor rightly 
recommended this as a priority. So, on balance, I think some exposure to property was a reasonable 
suggestion and I see no reason why this property fund was inherently  riskier than another  one. So, 
with some reservations,  I feel it would have been reasonable to recommend putting half the money  
into this fund.
I therefore  currently intend  to instruct L & G to pay compensation  on the basis that Mr and Mrs A 
should have been advised  to only put in 50% of the money they invested in the property fund and 
none in the MGHY corporate  bond. This means L & G needs to compare the returns  they received on 
these sums invested in these two products with what they might have got via a more  suitable  low risk 
product. To do this it should use the formula known as 50/50, and recommended  by this service  in 
these circumstances.
This formula was set out by the adjudicator in her view of this case, and I will set it out in full in my 
final decision.  This is simply a formula designed  to reflect  potential returns  via a suitably low risk 
investment. So even  though Mr and Mrs A probably wanted to diversify  their portfolio away from stock 
market-linked equities I am satisfied that this is a reasonable benchmark to use in this case.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Legal and General Assurance Society Limited 
to pay compensation as outlined above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4438586