K821x#15complaint
Mr Bs unhappy that Advantage  Insurance  Company  Limited refused to assist him after an 
incident when  a motor bike hit his stationary car.
background
Mr Bs stationary car was scraped by a motor  cycle which failed  to stop. He reported the 
incident to Advantage his motor insurer. He feels  it discouraged him from making a claim on 
his policy  as it wanted him to pay his excess upfront. He didnt want  to get the repairs  done 
until the other party had admitted liability. He says the excess shouldve only been payable;  
after his car had been repaired. Hes also unhappy that Advantage refused to get CCTV 
footage which by now will have been deleted. He hasnt had the car repaired. 
Advantage said in its final response that it cannot  carry  out any services, such as arranging 
repairs to his vehicle  or pursuing CCTV footage, until Mr B opted to proceed with a claim 
which entails him contributing his £250 policy excess. This was set out in his policy  wording. 
And as hed chosen not to pursue a claim  or agree to contribute  the policy  excess  it isnt in a 
position to provide any claim services.  Even so the incident may be rated by the policy 
underwriters which may result in a change of premium. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be partly upheld. He said in summary:
Its normal for a consumer to have  to pay an excess which is the first part of any 
claim. Its an uninsured  loss that isnt covered by the policy  and can be claimed back  
from the other party. Insurers normally arrange  for the car to be repaired and ask the 
consumer to pay their excess at that point. After the repairs  are done the insurer  will 
then have a loss to recover  from the other  party. A courtesy  car will only be provided 
when the consumers car is being repaired.
Advantages policy says it will usually provide a Group A courtesy car and its 
unfortunate if that car wouldnt have allowed Mr B to park free in his council area but 
thats what the policy terms promised.
Mr B didnt  want to pay his excess until the other  party  had admitted liability.  But that 
meant Advantage couldnt repair his car and it didnt have a loss to pursue. This was 
clearly explained  to Mr B on the phone. 
Even so Advantage sent the allegations  to the third party  and asked for the CCTV 
footage from a local authority camera. But there  wasnt anything on this camera. Mr 
B identified other nearby cameras.  Advantage refused to pursue getting  more 
evidence as a fee was payable and Mr B hadnt  agreed to pay his excess  without an 
admission of liability from the third party. As this footage is only given to insurers  and 
is time sensitive this has meant this evidence is no longer available. As a result 
Advantage has potentially prejudiced Mr Bs position. 
Mr B was told the incident  would be recorded  on his insurance  history. Advantage 
has an obligation to accurately record all incidents whether or not a claim is made.  
He was also told this may affect his future premiums. Thats all fair.
Advantage hasnt  treated Mr B entirely  fairly and should pay him £300  compensation. 
Ref: DRN41479542Advantage doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for the same  reasons. 
Mr Bs policy  says he must pay a voluntary excess of £250. This is the first part of any claim 
he must pay. So it was reasonable  for Advantage to tell him of this when he reported the 
incident. The policy wording doesnt  specifically say when the excess is payable but many 
insurers wouldve only asked for it to be paid when the repairs to the car were  completed not 
upfront. Its also reasonable to assume  an insurer wouldnt  have a loss to pursue until those 
repairs were completed.
Advantage said in its final response that it cannot  carry  out any services, such as arranging 
repairs to his vehicle  or pursuing CCTV footage, until Mr B opted to proceed with a claim 
which entails him contributing his £250 policy excess. And it said as hed chosen not to 
pursue a claim or agree  to contribute the policy  excess it isnt in a position  to provide any 
claim services.  
But despite  the fact that Mr B hadnt  agreed to make  a claim or pay his excess, Advantage 
did nevertheless  take steps to investigate what had happened.  It contacted the local council 
to try to get footage recorded by a CCTV camera. This proved unsuccessful as the camera  
wasnt on all the time.  The reply it received from the council left open whether other cameras  
mightve recorded CCTV footage. And Mr B subsequently identified  other  cameras  in the 
area, provided a link to a website to seek information and told Advantage the footage was 
only available for a short period of time.
Having effectively started to deal with the collection of CCTV evidence  I think  it wouldve 
been reasonable here for Advantage to take whatever steps were reasonably necessary to 
obtain CCTV footage evidence from other known cameras.  
But Advantage didnt do so as I think wouldve been  reasonable  given that it wouldve been 
aware it was likely the CCTV footage would only be disclosed  to an insurer  and not to Mr B 
directly and particularly  as it was aware  that any CCTV evidence was time sensitive. 
Taking everything into account  as Advantage had already taken steps to obtain some  CCTV 
footage, and as it also wrote  to the thirst party setting out the allegations, I think  it should in 
this case reasonably have pursued  obtaining  more CCTV footage  whether or not Mr B had 
at that time confirmed  he was making a claim or agreed to pay his excess. 
There was no guarantee more  CCTV  footage  wouldve  been  available and we cannot  now 
say if any that was available wouldve supported his version of events.  But the simple fact is 
that as Advantage didnt take steps  to obtain any more CCTV footage Mr B has clearly been 
deprived of the opportunity of obtaining and preserving any CCTV footage  there mightve 
been.  
Mr B also complains that he wasnt offered a suitable courtesy  car. But as his car wasnt 
repaired he wasnt entitled  to one. And even  if he had been it wouldve likely been a group A 
car which may not have been of a size to have entitled him to park free in his local area. But 
Ref: DRN41479543a Group  A car was what the policy promised and Advantage wouldnt have been  obliged to 
supply one that met any local requirements for free parking.
Advantage is also obliged to accurately record the incident on Mr Bs claims history and in 
industry databases. And that is whether or not a claim is made and regardless of liability. 
Here I think it has correctly noted this incident  as a notification only one and I cant ask it to 
change what it has recorded.  I also note it allowed Mr Bs no claim discount  which  is fair.
It was also reasonable  for Advantage it to tell Mr B that the incident may be taken into 
account by underwriters in the future  when  assessing his premium.
Overall as I have indicated above  I think  Advantage  couldve  dealt with Mr B better in some 
respects. And I think  this caused him some distress and inconvenience  which  warrants  an 
award of some compensation. Taking everything  into account I think a payment of £300  
compensation is fair and reasonable. And I dont see any compelling reason to change  the 
proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Advantage Insurance  Company Limited should 
pay Mr B £300 compensation. 
Advantage must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr B 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Advantage considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr B how much  its taken  off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4147954