K820x#14complaint and background
Ms B complains  that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has unreasonably declined a claim 
on her buildings  insurance.
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 6 December  2018, which  is attached and 
forms part of my final decision.
Since issuing my provisional  decision, Ms B and Ageas have confirmed that they have 
received my provisional  decision. I understand Ms B is disappointed  with the outcome of the 
decision.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ms B does not accept my provisional decision. I have to have regard to all submissions and 
available evidence in this case.  And I have taken into account  all Ms Bs comments following 
my PD. But, I note Ms B has not provided any materially new evidence  or submissions for 
me to consider. Because there  is no new material information, I can see no reason to 
change the conclusion in my provisional decision.  It follows  that I do not uphold Ms Bs 
complaint.
I note Ms B says that she has recently  noticed cracks that she thinks  happened at the same  
time as the damage which is the subject  of this complaint.  But she has not provided any 
evidence that would  make  me think that any damage was as a result of an insured event. 
But, in any event, If Ms B wants to complain to this service about this, or anything else,  she 
must first complain  to Ageas, if she has not already done so - before bringing her complaint 
to this service.
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms B.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 6 December 2018, I do not 
uphold Ms Bs complaint against Ageas UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Marie Lewiecki
ombudsman
Ref: DRN42593812copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Ms B complains  that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has unreasonably  declined a claim  on her 
buildings insurance.
background
Ms B says that between  the 1st and 2nd March  2018 the roof on her home  was damaged during a 
storm. On 5 March 2018, Ms B reported the damage to her roof to Ageas  and made a claim to cover 
the cost of repair to her roof. 
Ageas declined  Ms Bs claim. It said that at the time Ms B says the damage occurred, the weather 
conditions recorded  would not amount to the definition  of a Storm under the terms of the policy. And, 
it says, because  Ms B repaired any damage to the roof before it was able to inspect the damage (and 
so it was not able to confirm  that any damage was caused as a result of storm force weather 
conditions) it is not able to validate Ms Bs claim.
Ms B disagrees with Ageass decision. She says that there was a storm and that the storm caused  
damage to her roof. She also explains  that she had her roof fixed privately before Ageas could inspect 
the damage because she couldnt get through to her insurer on the phone. Ms B also has a health 
condition which, she says,  meant she was worried  she could get ill if she didnt get the damage 
repaired as soon as possible. Ms B also explains that she lives very close to the sea front where the 
weather can be more  severe than at the nearest  weather station.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and did not uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ms B disagrees with 
this view so the matter  has passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
There are three main  issues we consider in storm damage cases:
Were there storm conditions at the time the damage occurred?
Is the damage claimed consistent with what we generally see as storm damage?
Were the storm conditions the main  cause  of the damage?
were there storm conditions?
Ms Bs policy defines a storm as follows:
We consider storm  to be strong winds of 48 knots/55mph or more, sometimes accompanied by rain, 
hail or snow 
Heavy or persistent rain or snow  alone does not constitute storm unless the rain or snow is extreme  
that damage is caused  to well-maintained  properties or adequately  designed construction
Extreme rain or snow  is
- 25mm/l inch or more  of rain over a 1 hour period,  or a proportionate  amount over a shorter time,  and
- 30cm/12  inches or more of snow within  a 24 hour period (or less) 
So I have thought about whether the weather  conditions at the time amounted to a storm as defined 
by Ms Bs policy. I have  looked at the available weather reports and I can see that the nearest 
Ref: DRN42593813weather station to Ms Bs address was 13 miles away in Newcastle. I can see that there werent  any 
storm conditions (as defined  in the policy)  around the time Ms B says the damage occurred in 
Newcastle. 
But Ms B says that because she was living on the coast the conditions were worse where she was. 
So I have looked at the next nearest weather  station  to where Ms B lives and I can see that there is 
another weather  station  at Boulmer. Boulmer is 16 miles  away from where Ms B lives and is also on 
the north east coast. I can see that on the 1st March 2018  winds  reached 57mph. 
So I accept that it is possible that the winds  near where  Ms B lives were  stronger than in Newcastle 
(as she explains), and that they may have constituted a storm. 
storm damage
But even if I were  to accept  that the weather conditions  did constitute a storm on the dates Ms B says 
the damage occurred, in order for me to require Ageas pay out Ms Bs claim  I would also need to also 
be satisfied:  that the damage  was consistent with storm damage; and that the storm conditions were 
the main cause of damage.
 
Having considered  the evidence  carefully, the damage Ms B describes can be consistent  with Storm 
damage. But I dont know the condition of Ms Bs roof immediately before the weather conditions 
described occurred.  And whilst I do not doubt that what Ms B has said to us is her honest  and best 
recollection of what took place, I dont currently think that I can fairly conclude  that storm conditions  
were the main cause of the damage to Ms Bs roof. I explain my reasons  below.
When coming to my decision, I take into account all the available evidence and submissions in order 
to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. When doing this I have to 
be fair to both parties.  
I can see in Ms Bs policy that the normal  process to claim on the policy  would be for Ms B to notify 
Ageas of her claim  and then a surveyor would be appointed to inspect the damage to her property. 
But Ms B says that she did not follow this process because she tried to contact Ageas and couldnt 
get through to them on the phone. I dont know how many times Ms B tried to call her insurers but it is 
clear that by the time she did contact  her insurers on 5th March 2018 (a few days later),  Ms B had 
already had the roof repaired.  
Ms Bs policy states that at times the type of damage may mean  an emergency  or temporary  repair is 
required to minimise  any further  loss. This includes instances  where a health and safety risk is 
present or if further damage would  occur. We will reimburse these  costs as long as the initial  damage 
is confirmed to be as a result of storm conditions and covered by your policy. Please ensure that 
temporary repairs do not destroy  any evidence  that may help us validate your claim. 
So the fact Ms B carried out the repairs  to her roof before  Ageas were able to validate  her claim does 
not automatically mean that Ms Bs complaint fails. But it does mean that there  is less evidence 
available for me to consider when  deciding  if storm conditions were the main  cause of damage to Ms 
Bs roof. So I make my decision based on the available evidence.
Ms B has provided me with photos of the damage she says happened to her roof. I have also seen a 
receipt from the person  who carried out the repair to Ms Bs roof. I have considered this, and all the 
other evidence, carefully. I can see that the receipt shows  Ms B paid to have her roof repaired but 
there is nothing on this receipt to help me decide what the likely cause of any damage was. And Ms B 
had the repairs carried out before Ageas  could attend to inspect the damage to her roof - so it has not 
been able to provide evidence as to what  the cause  of damage was either. 
I appreciate that Ms B is of the opinion that the damage to her roof was caused as a result of storm 
conditions. And I do accept  it is possible  that the damage to Ms Bs roof was caused as a result of 
Ref: DRN42593814storm conditions. But its also possible  that the weather conditions Ms B described  highlighted an 
underlying problem  that was already in existence (but not yet apparent to Ms B). 
I accept and appreciate that the weather conditions  Ms B describes must have been very upsetting to 
Ms B. But I think (at their highest) they were likely  to only just amount to storm conditions.  And, in all 
the circumstances, I think it more likely  that the damage caused to Ms Bs roof occurred because the 
weather conditions  highlighted some underlying  problem  that was already  in existence. And so whilst I 
accept the weather conditions  were a factor  in the damage  to the damage on Ms Bs roof, I do not 
conclude that its likely the storm conditions  were the main cause of damage to Ms Bs roof. 
I have also considered if the damage would  have been covered  by another  part of the policy Ms B 
had taken out. But having done so, I do not conclude  that it does. I note that Ms B was not covered  for 
accidental damage to her building. 
I know my decision will come as a disappointment  to Ms B. But on the available evidence,  I dont 
currently think  Ageas  has acted unreasonably  or unfairly by refusing to pay out Ms Bs claim. So Im 
not currently  going to ask it to do anything more. Unless I receive any other evidence  in response to 
my provisional  decision  to make me think otherwise,  my decision is likely to remain the same. 
I have taken into account all Ms Bs other comments and observations before coming to my 
conclusion but they do not affect my decision. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont intend to uphold Ms Bs complaint.
I now invite  all parties to give me any further information they want me to consider before I make my 
final decision.  This must be provided  to us by 20 December 2018.
Marie Lewiecki
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4259381