K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Nationwide Building  Society failed to provide full information 
about the implications  of them making  an overpayment to their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs P have  a mortgage with Nationwide and part is on a repayment basis  and the 
other on an interest only basis. In September 2017  Mrs P had a review with a mortgage 
advisor which covered  the interest rate on the mortgage. On 13 October  2017  she called 
Nationwide and said she had just made  an overpayment of £20,000  to the mortgage.  She 
wanted to check  that this would repay  the interest  only element. She was unhappy to later 
find out that their monthly payments could have been much lower  if the money  had been 
applied to the repayment part of the mortgage.  And that Nationwide told her she could not 
switch the overpayment to that part. 
Nationwide agreed  with that last part of the complaint and offered to pay £100 in 
compensation. It said she and her husband would need to confirm the change back. The 
payment has now been  moved across.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
-There was no record of the meeting in September 2017 as no changes were  made to 
the mortgage then. But Nationwide did not seem to dispute that the purpose was to 
discuss reducing monthly mortgage  payments.
-Mrs P said that the advisor told her that the payments were about as low as they 
could be and again thats something  Nationwide accepts as likely even without a 
record of the meeting.
-Nationwide had explained that the advisor  would  not have been able to make  
adjustments for overpayments to the mortgage  himself but would have been  able to 
provide information  about this. And to have given an idea of what  repayments would 
have been if this was done.
-He did not think it unreasonable  for any answers the advisor  gave to be seen as 
amounting to advice given  the context for the meeting.
-As a result  he saw no reason why the advisor should not have mentioned the 
possibility of making a lump sum towards  the repayment element of the mortgage. So 
he thought that if Mrs P then knew their repayments  could have  fallen from over £450 
to just over £200 shed have taken that option then.
-When Mrs P called on 13 October 2017 she asked  that the payment be taken to the 
interest only element.  There was no discussion about the impact of taking it off the 
repayment element.  She made a decision to maintain her current repayments  in light 
of that and not knowing the other possibilities.
-He recommended that Nationwide rework  the mortgage as if the overpayment  had 
been made to the mortgage  at the earliest opportunity following the September  2017 
meeting. Mr and Mrs P should  be refunded  the additional amount and paid eight per 
cent simple interest on this amount to the date of settlement. He also recommended 
that it paid total compensation  of £200  an increase of £100   for the upset and 
inconvenience caused.
Nationwide did not agree. It said that it did not believe that the way in which the overpayment 
was allocated was discussed at the meeting in September 2017.  Mrs P did not call back  
about this until March 2018 when  she wanted  to make another overpayment.  On 2 March 
2018 she said that she wanted to use this to reduce the term and not the level of monthly 
Ref: DRN43918402payments. On 5 March  2018 she called to ask about moving the £20,000 payment that had 
been made in October 2017.  She said that was because she had been  told she had a 
flexible mortgage.  This transfer reduced  the payments as there was then £20,000 on an 
interest only basis. Nationwide said that over the term of the mortgage this meant Mr and 
Mrs P would pay more interest  and there  would still be the £20,000 interest only element to 
repay.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator and Nationwide have said it is not possible to determine exactly what  
happened in the meeting in September 2017.  However, I think I can draw  some inferences 
based on Mrs Ps subsequent actions to help me determine what is most likely.
Mrs P made the overpayment on 13 October  2017.  Nationwide said that the default position  
is that it would be applied to the repayment element. The person she spoke to anticipated 
Mrs P wanted to instead pay off the interest only element  that being the reason for the call. 
And the paperwork that Nationwide  issued automatically on 14 October  2017  showed the 
default position and which had already been overridden.
Mrs P said she was told by the advisor  in September 2017  that repaying  the interest element 
was appropriate  and that she gained  the clear understanding that this could be reversed 
later on. That in my view accounts for her later insistence that this was possible even though  
she was told by a different  member of staff she could not do so.
The purpose of the meeting in September 2017 was to see whether Mr and Mrs P had the 
best deal. Nationwide says that the advisor  wouldnt have  said that they were on the best 
deal unless they were  discussing  plans to overpay within restrictions  and potential borrow  
backs in the future. Normally with overpayment situations he would make  it clear  that it 
automatically comes off the repayment part and he would leave it up to the customer  if they 
wish to take it off the interest only part as its their personal preference. He would have 
discussed the BMR [Base Mortgage Rate]  features  but would not have specifically said if 
she reduces the interest only amount she cannot  increase  it at a later date. 
Im satisfied on balance  that Mrs P left that meeting  thinking that making a payment towards 
the interest only element was the recommended  best option  and that they could reverse  this 
later on. Thats  entirely consistent with what shes since done and said.  As their priority was 
for lower payments I think she ought in these circumstances to have been  given  information  
about the impact  on the payments. I dont think she was aware of this and I think  she needed 
to be to make a decision. When  she did find out about this there  was an immediate impact 
on their preferences.
Mrs P made a decision  not to reduce the payments in the call on 13 October 2017. But that 
was only within the context of what she then knew was available to her.
Nationwide has explained what  the most cost effective option  is for Mr and Mrs P. The 
implication of putting the overpayment towards  the repayment element is that there will be 
an interest only element  remaining at the end of the term. But I think  Mr and Mrs P were  
reasonably well aware of that and have since still made that decision.
Ref: DRN43918403So on balance I find that had Mrs P had all the relevant information  in September 2017  she 
would have made the payment to the repayment  element of the mortgage. Her not doing so 
in my view was on balance the direct  result of what the advisor  said to her. I dont find it 
reasonable that Mr and Mrs P found  themselves in that position.  As a result  Im upholding 
their complaint and I require Nationwide to backdate the change  theyve now made to 13 
October 2017. 
This means  Mr and Mrs P will receive  a refund of the higher payments they made. They  will 
be clear that most of the difference  represented payments towards capital not interest so this 
refund will mean that the balance on the mortgage increases. But Im going  to require simple 
interest of eight per cent per annum to be added  to the refund to reflect them  not having 
access to this money. And the higher compensation recommended by our investigator 
should be paid too to reflect the inconvenience.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I require Nationwide  Building Society to
1)Backdate the £20,000 overpayment to the repayment element of the mortgage to 13 
October 2017 and rework the mortgage.
2)Refund the difference between each payment  made compared to what  is now due 
and pay Mr and Mrs P simple  interest of eight percent from the date of each to the 
date of settlement.
3)Pay Mr and Mrs P total compensation of £200 - a further £100 to the amount  said to 
have already been paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 July 2019.  
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4391840