K820x#14complaint
Miss L and Mr N complain that Santander UK Plc wouldnt  let them  port or transfer their 
mortgage to their new home. Theyve had to pay an early repayment  charge (ERC) of more 
than £4,000 despite only one monthly payment remaining on their fixed  rate mortgage deal.
background
In 2016, Miss L and Mr N took out a two year fixed rate mortgage with Santander.  Until 2 
September 2018, an ERC applied if the mortgage was repaid.
Miss L and Mr N had an application approved to transfer their mortgage with Santander  to a 
new home. But that purchase  fell through and they decided  to buy a new build property 
instead. Miss L and Mr N say their mortgage broker told them that they wouldnt be able to 
continue with their Santander mortgage as the loan to value  was above the maximum it 
would accept for new builds  and that was confirmed  by Santander. So they took out a 
mortgage with another  lender instead.  As the mortgage was repaid during the tie-in period 
Santander applied  the ERC.
Miss L and Mr N consider  that the ERC  is unfair. They say they only had one monthly 
payment left of around £680,  which they were prepared to pay. They cant  understand how 
Santanders actual  loss could be as much  as the ERC  it has charged.
Our investigator said the ERC was set out clearly  in the mortgage offer that Miss L and Mr N 
agreed to and that Santanders method for calculating  the ERC  was reasonable.
Miss L and Mr N didnt accept what the investigator said.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Miss L and Mr N think the ERC is unfair  particularly  in their 
circumstances. But after looking carefully  at everything both they and Santander have  said 
and provided I dont consider that the ERC is unfair  or unreasonable. I will explain my 
reasons why below.
When Miss L and Mr N took out the mortgage  they agreed to its terms and conditions. That 
included the ERC. The amount of the ERC  and the date it would be charged until were set 
out clearly and prominently in the mortgage  offer. So it would be difficult  for me to say that it 
would be unfair  for Santander to apply the ERC  in line with the mortgage  offer that Miss L 
and Mr N accepted.
Santander do not, however, have a free hand to set whatever ERC it wants. The relevant  
rules say that the ERC  must be a reasonable pre-estimate  of the cost to Santander of the 
mortgage being repaid  early  but the estimate  can be made  across  a range of mortgages  of 
a similar  type. Those  rules are one of the things I have to take into account to decide what  is 
fair and reasonable in this case.
Santander has given  us information about how it calculated the ERC on the mortgage 
product that Miss L and Mr N took. It says this information is commercially  sensitive  and I 
have accepted it in confidence  as Im allowed to under  our rules. 
Ref: DRN49499552There are a number of different elements Santander  takes into account when calculating the 
ERC. Im satisfied that it was reasonable for it to factor those elements into its calculation.  
And that the potential loss to Santander goes further  than the interest payments remaining 
on the fixed rate deal.  Looking at the figures  it has provided, Im satisfied they support the 
ERC it charged.
Overall, I consider that the Santander  has demonstrated that the ERC  was at the time the 
mortgage was taken a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost of the mortgage being repaid 
early. Its important  to note that it is an estimate   and the actual loss to Santander could be 
more or less than the ERC. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 July 2019.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4949955