K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the way Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc handled two fraudulent loan 
applications made in his name. 
background
In June 2018 Hitachi received an online application  for a £4,000 loan, apparently  from Mr G. 
In fact, Mr G hadnt made the application; a fraudster had, using some of Mr Gs details. The 
loan was approved and credit provided  to the fraudster. 
Hitachi didnt receive any payments  and wrote to Mr G. He didnt initially  get any letters,  
however, because the fraudster had changed the address. In September 2018,  however, 
Hitachi did manage to trace  Mr G and contacted  him about  the loan. Mr G explained, and 
Hitachi accepted,  that he hadnt  made  the application and hadnt received the credit.  
Hitachi wrote  the loan off and contacted  CIFAS (a fraud alert service) that a fraudulent 
application had been made in Mr Gs name.  It wrote  to Mr G to explain what  it had done   
but initially used  the address the fraudster had provided, even though  by now it had Mr Gs 
correct address. 
Mr G sought further information from Hitachi about  the application and his credit  files. Hitachi 
provided information about where  he could check his files. It wouldnt however provide the 
information hed requested about the application,  because he wasnt  its customer and so it 
couldnt verify his identity.
Hitachi received a further loan application  in Mr Gs name in December 2018.  This time 
however it identified that the application was fraudulent at an early stage and didnt approve 
it. Instead, it contacted  Mr G to check whether application was genuine  and took no further  
action to process it when  he confirmed that it was not. 
Mr G didnt think Hitachi had done  enough  to help him; he thought too that the compensation 
it had offered  £125  was too low. He referred  the matter  to this service  and one of our 
investigators looked at it. She took the view however  that Hitachi  had dealt with things fairly 
and didnt recommend t take any additional steps  or offer to increase its offer of 
compensation. Mr G didnt accept the investigators  opinion and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.          
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill comment firstly on our powers to deal with Mr Gs complaint. We cant  look at every 
complaint thats  referred to us. Amongst other  things, the complaint  must arise from one of a 
number of possible relationships between the complainant (here, Mr G) and the respondent 
(Hitachi). Mr G wasnt, of course, a customer of Hitachi  indeed,  his complaint arises  
precisely because  of that fact. But the ombudsman service can consider a complaint where  
the complainant  is a person from whom the respondent has sought to recover  payment 
under a credit agreement  or consumer hire agreement (whether or not the respondent is a 
party to the agreement).
Ref: DRN41683652Hitachi did initially seek to recover payment from Mr G (at least in respect  of the first loan 
application), so Im satisfied I have the power to consider  his complaint. 
I dont believe it was unreasonable of Hitachi to decline Mr Gs request for information about 
the loan applications. As it has said, hes not one of its customers, so it has no realistic  way 
of knowing whether the data it has is in fact his. Its quite  likely though  that its a mixture  of 
information about him and information about someone else  because  thats  how frauds of 
this type are perpetrated.  
Once Hitachi had been told that the loan application was fraudulent, I believe it acted 
promptly to verify that and to put things  right  primarily by telling Mr G that it wouldnt be 
pursuing him for the debt.  It also contacted  credit  reference agencies and CIFAS; its 
possible the CIFAS registration helped to stop the further application, because it would have 
alerted potential lenders to the first application.  I agree with the investigator  however that 
Hitachi could not have known exactly how long it would take external agencies to update 
their records.
I dont agree with the investigators  comment that the reason the loan was accepted wasnt 
because of anything  Hitachi  got wrong. Whilst it may have followed its own procedures and 
made the checks required by regulations, those checks and procedures  didnt identify  that 
the application hadnt been made  by Mr G. In that sense, Hitachi did get things wrong. 
The issue  I have to decide therefore is whether Hitachi has done enough to put things right. 
Mr G has drawn  a comparison  with a different complaint against another  financial firm, 
where he was awarded more than the £125 Hitachi has offered. Im not familiar with the 
details of that complaint, but assessing an appropriate level of compensation for non-
financial loss isnt a precise science. In this case I think  that Hitachis offer of £125 was 
towards the lower  end of what I might have expected  but not so low that I propose  to 
award more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to do anything  further  to 
resolve Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4168365