K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains about delays by Phoenix Life Limited in settling a claim for pension
benefits which were  subject to a court  order. Mrs T had to take legal advice and incurred 
substantial legal costs  which  she considers  Phoenix Life should pay.  
background
Ive considered Mrs Ts complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 30 October 
2020. To more or less repeat what I said about  the background:  
Mrs T was divorced in 2000. Her ex husband had a pension  policy  with Phoenix  Life. A 
consent order in the divorce  proceedings was made in April 2001. About  the pension  policy  
with Phoenix Life it said:
AND UPON the Petitioner [Mrs Ts husband]  undertaking  to pay to the Respondent  [Mrs T] 
all income received from [the Phoenix Life policy]; and to irrevocably nominate within 56 
days from the date of this order  that the Respondent shall receive  the full amount of the lump 
sum payable  in the event of his death;  and not to draw any benefits  from the pension  policy  
[with Phoenix Life]   without the consent in writing of the Respondent..
Mrs Ts ex husband gave Phoenix  Life permission to discuss  the policy  with Mrs T in 2010  
following a request by her to take benefits.  Phoenix Life explained that the earliest  benefits  
could be taken was Mrs Ts ex husbands  55th birthday which was in 2016.
In early 2016 Mrs T wanted  to claim benefits from the policy.  Phoenix  Life had explained 
that, as the pension plan remained in her ex husbands name, hed need to make  the claim.  
Phoenix Life sent a retirement pack to him in February 2016. Ive summarised the main 
communications that followed. 
Mrs Ts ex husband returned completed forms to Phoenix Life in July 2016 selecting to take 
benefits including a tax free lump sum. At about the same time financial advisers acting for 
Mrs T wrote to Phoenix Life requesting information  about the policies. The letter said the 
plan owner was her ex husband and referred to an earmarking order in favour  of Mrs T. A 
letter of authority from Mrs T was enclosed.  
Phoenix Life wrote to Mrs Ts ex husband on 15 July 2016,  noting that the court order  said 
all income (pension) received from the policy  will be payable to the respondent (Mrs T). But 
hed be liable for any tax payable  on the income paid from the policy.  Phoenix Life referred  
to the retirement  pack sent in February 2016  and said that, once  hed confirmed which 
option was required, Phoenix Life would need to get confirmation from Mrs T that she agreed 
before the claim could  be settled. Phoenix  Life recommended  that Mrs Ts ex husband take 
legal advice before  making a decision and, if necessary, returned to the court to get the 
order clarified. 
Phoenix Life also wrote to Mrs T on the same date and saying it would contact  her again 
once her ex husband had confirmed how the claim was to proceed. 
Mrs T wrote to Phoenix Life on 18 July 2016.  She said shed been told by her ex husband 
that Phoenix Life now had all the necessary information and authorisation to enable  it to 
pass the policies  over to her as per the divorce  settlement.  
Ref: DRN40481572Ive also seen an exchange of emails on 22 July 2016 between  Mrs T, her ex husband and 
Phoenix Life. Phoenix Lifes  technical team had said that Mrs T was only entitled to income  
from the policy which meant a full pension annuity. The quotes  sent to her ex husband 
included taking tax free cash  sum with a reduced annuity but, if other than a full annuity was 
chosen, legal advice might be required. Phoenix  Life said it would proceed  with the claim as 
a full pension  annuity which would result  in all of the annuity proceeds being  paid to Mrs T 
although the annuity would be set up in her ex husbands name. 
Both Mrs T and her ex husband were frustrated  that the benefits couldnt  simply be paid over 
to Mrs T given  the court order and that there  was no disagreement  between  them,  as theyd 
confirmed to Phoenix Life. Mrs T said Phoenix  Life had already sent her the forms for taking 
the open market option,  which included taking 25% tax free cash and buying  an annuity  with 
a provider of her choice.  She wanted advice  (from her financial adviser)  as to the best 
option. She wasnt convinced that setting up an annuity in her ex husbands name  with the 
income paid to her would be workable.  
Phoenix Life replied to Mrs T by adding  its comments to the points shed raised  in her email. 
Amongst other things Phoenix  Life confirmed that the annuity would be set up in her ex 
husbands name and hed be liable  for the tax although Mrs T would be entitled to the 
annuity income. Other options were  available to Mrs Ts ex husband  but any lump sum 
payment would be made to him. Phoenix Life reiterated that the court order  just covered 
income which excluded  lump sum payments.  And that Mrs T might wish to seek legal 
advice about getting the court  order amended  to reflect exactly  what she and her ex 
husband wanted. 
Mrs T replied on 25 July 2016. She said Phoenix  Life had helped to clarify a few issues.  She 
thought the wrong court  order had been  obtained and shed have been better off with a 
pension sharing or earmarking order. She needed  the pension  transferred to her but she 
didnt want her ex husband to be liable  for any tax as that hadnt been explained and wasnt  
the intention. She asked if the court order  could  or should be changed  to a pension  sharing 
order. 
Phoenix Life replied saying that pension sharing orders only came into effect  in December 
2000 which was during  the divorce  proceedings. It couldnt comment as to whether a court  
order could be drafted to bypass any tax liability for Mrs Ts ex husband.   
In her email of 9 August  2016 Mrs T said shed been told, as her ex husband agreed the 
whole fund should be handed  over to her, that the earmarking order should  be changed to a 
pension sharing order. She asked if it was possible for Phoenix Lifes legal team  to arrange 
that, otherwise  shed  need to instruct solicitors.  
In a further email  on 11 August 2016 she said an application  to the court  would be made  for 
a variation of the original order. Mrs T said that should be a formality and the entire  fund 
could then be passed to her. She asked Phoenix  Life to confirm  what  it required to use as a 
checklist to pass to her solicitor to try to keep costs  (estimated at between  £1,000  and 
£2,000) down.  
Ive also seen that on 17 August 2016 Mrs Ts ex husband signed  a letter which  referred to 
the court order and gave permission for all funds  relating to the policy  and all rights  in it to be 
transferred to Mrs T with him having  no future  claim. 
On 1 September 2016 Phoenix  Life told Mrs T the matter had been referred to its legal team. 
Ref: DRN40481573Mrs T replied saying  the next day saying that was understandable in the circumstances. 
She did however  query why, in March  2016,  Phoenix Life had issued the retirement  options  
pack to her with no mention of any problem. 
Phoenix Life emailed Mrs T later that day (2 September  2016). It said Mrs Ts ex husband  
was the legal owner of the policy but had given permission to release information  to Mrs T. 
The retirement quotation issued was addressed to Mrs T so it could be interpreted  that the 
options set out were  available to her. But Phoenix Life had clarified that the earmarking order  
related to all pension income  generated from claim on this policy.  The earmarking  order  
didnt change the legal ownership but Phoenix Life would  try to help to facilitate the order by 
redirecting pension payments to Mrs T although her ex husband would  still be responsible 
for the tax implications.
Phoenix Life had also heard  from its legal team. It had said it couldnt provide any guidance 
on any changes or say if a pension sharing order was more appropriate. That was a matter  
for the court, Mrs T and her ex husband  and their legal advisers. And the policy  remained 
under Mrs Ts ex husbands  control,  despite  him saying he was happy for Phoenix Life to just 
pay it to Mrs T. Phoenix Life offered to review any draft order.
Ive also seen that in September 2016  Phoenix Life upheld a complaint from Mrs T. I think 
Phoenix Life had treated  what Mrs T had said in her email on 22 July 2016  as a complaint.  
There was also the issue about claim forms having been sent to her when it was up to her ex 
husband to make the claim. Phoenix  Life paid Mrs T £100  which  included  compensation for 
delay in responding to her complaint. 
I havent seen  anything else happened  as far as Phoenix Life was concerned until 21 March 
2017 when solicitors instructed by Mrs T wrote  to Phoenix Life with a draft agreement. The 
solicitors said it was intended to be a legally  enforcement contract  between  Mrs T and her ex 
husband as to the implementation of the court order and was a better way of proceeding 
than making an application to the court for the consent order  to be revisited  which would 
mean further delay,  extensive legal costs and uncertainty as to the courts powers when the 
divorce proceedings had taken place prior to changes in legislation. 
There was then some dialogue about the draft agreement. In an email sent on 4 May 2017 
Phoenix Life maintained  it had to settle  the policy as per the earmarking order  unless it was 
varied by the court. The agreement provided  was between Mrs T and her ex husband and 
Phoenix Life wasnt a party to it. Phoenix Life reiterated Mrs Ts ex husband needed to 
complete the retirement pack,  with any annuity  set up and taxed under his name  and the 
income paid to Mrs T. The annuity would cease on his death and any guaranteed minimum 
pension (GMP) would be paid to his current spouse. If he chose tax free cash  it would be 
paid to him. It would  be a matter for him if he then paid it to Mrs T. 
In reply, on 8 May 2017, Mrs Ts solicitors expressed concern that Phoenix Life was still 
referring to the order as an earmarking order. Mrs Ts solicitors said the agreement was 
recorded in the recitals  to the order as an undertaking by Mrs Ts ex husband. The solicitors 
view was that, so long as Mrs Ts ex husband  complied with his undertaking, which was to 
provide for the benefit of the policy to be paid to Mrs T, the interpretation was for him and 
Mrs T to agree. The agreement theyd  prepared clearly defined  his undertaking to provide 
the benefit of the policy for Mrs T and was sufficient for the terms they required to be 
implemented.
Ref: DRN40481574Phoenix Life replied on 15 May 2017. It said it had previously been  agreed that it would  treat 
the order as an earmarking order. Phoenix  Life agreed it wasnt  a party to the order  which  
applied to Mrs Ts ex husband.  But that didnt change the fact that the policy belonged to 
him. If Phoenix Life didnt  treat it as an earmarking order then all payments would be made 
to him and it would be up to him what he then did with the money. Phoenix Life said it would 
act in accordance  with any new court  order or any pension sharing order  that was obtained.  
Mrs Ts solicitors wrote again  on 17 July 2017 to see if it might be possible to discuss  the 
matter with Phoenix Lifes legal team. Phoenix Life emailed  on 21 July 2017 saying that 
wasnt possible but setting out the options as it saw them: accept the consent order was 
between Mrs T and her ex husband and deal with him on him on his pension  claim with any 
sharing to be agreed between him and Mrs T after the benefits  had been paid to him; treat 
the order as an earmarking order and implement the order  on the basis  previously indicated;  
or, if he and Mrs T didnt want either option,  theyd need  to provide Phoenix Life with a court 
order or pension  sharing  order  setting out how the pension was to be shared.
Mrs Ts solicitors raised some queries which Phoenix Life answered in an email  on 2 August 
2017. 
Theres also a file note dated 11 September 2017 that Mrs Ts ex husband  had phoned to 
say the situation had changed and he wouldnt be making a claim on the policy and Mrs T 
would be going  back to court for a clean break  order. 
The solicitors wrote to Phoenix Life on 1 November 2017. They said that theyd taken 
counsels advice about an application  to the court and had Mrs Ts instructions to proceed 
with that. They asked Phoenix Life to confirm it would, as trustee, comply  with any court 
order. Phoenix Life emailed the following day giving that confirmation which Mrs Ts solicitors  
acknowledged on 7 November 2017,  saying theyd  revert  to Phoenix Life in the event that a 
court order  was obtained. 
Phoenix Life didnt  hear again until 21 March 2018  when the solicitors wrote  enclosing a 
further order made by the court in February  2018. It included the following: 
Variation of Settlement
The nuptial  settlement comprised of the respondents pension arrangements (as defined 
above) shall be varied so as to extinguish the interest of the respondent in the settlement 
and settle all of the interest of the respondent on the applicant.
Phoenix Life wrote to Mrs Ts solicitors  on 29 March 2018. Phoenix Lifes  legal team  had 
reviewed the new order  and took the view that the order just amended  the original consent 
order and confirmed the intention of the original order was for the full amount (tax free cash 
and annuity) to be paid to Mrs T. Her ex husband remained the legal owner  of the policy so 
Phoenix Life would still require any discharge  or instruction to be signed  by him. The (new) 
order didnt specify how the benefits  were to be taken  so again it would be for him to decide.  
The annuity  would be set up and taxed under his name and the benefit crystallisation event 
(BCE) recorded under his name. In the event of his death the annuity would cease and any 
spouses GMP would be payable to his legal  spouse at the date of death.  
Mrs Ts solicitors replied  on 4 April 2018, saying it was taking Mrs Ts instructions but putting  
Phoenix Life on notice  that it might  seek to recover her legal costs from Phoenix Life on the 
grounds that it had sought to frustrate the (new) court order.  
Ref: DRN40481575Phoenix Life responded on 17 April 2018, setting out its understanding of the 2001  court  
order and querying  how the new order impacted on that and, in particular,  the intention  and 
meaning of Mrs Ts ex husbands interest being settled on Mrs T. Phoenix Life was also 
concerned about  the possibility of an unauthorised payment which  could make Mrs Ts ex 
husband liable to a tax charge of up to 70% in respect of the deemed payment. Mrs Ts 
solicitors wrote on 25 April 2018 and 9 May 2018 and there  was a telephone conversation on 
11 May 2018. 
Phoenix Life also wrote to Mrs Ts solicitors  on 11 May 2018. Phoenix Life didnt accept the 
(new) court order had transferred the legal ownership of the policies from her ex husband to 
Mrs T. The policy included a GMP entitlement  which  couldnt  be assigned or transferred. 
Phoenix Life would have to make  provision out of the fund in respect of the GMP liabilities 
for Mrs Ts ex husband and any widow of his at the date of his death. Phoenix  Lifes view 
was that any payment  of benefits  to Mrs T could be unauthorised payments and a significant 
proportion of the fund would need  to be retained  to cover tax liabilities  and charges. 
Mrs Ts solicitors acknowledged the letter on 15 May 2018 saying they were  taking 
instructions and would revert to Phoenix Life.  
Phoenix Life didnt  hear further until Mrs Ts solicitors wrote  on 5 November  2018  saying 
they were perplexed by Phoenix  Lifes position which was both wrong at law and a breach 
of the court  order.  They gave Phoenix Life until 30 November 2018  to implement the order,  
failing which theyd make  an application to the court for costs against Phoenix  Life. Their  
counsel had advised on the points set out in Phoenix Lifes letter  of 11 May 2018.  Amongst 
other things  the solicitors  said the new order had been made pursuant to section 24 of the 
Matrimonial Causes  Act and the case of Brooks v Brooks  [1995]  3 All ER 257. 
Phoenix Life raised some queries by letter  dated 7 November 2018.  Mrs Ts solicitors replied 
on 13 December 2018. They  gave a new deadline  (4pm on 18 January 2019) for 
implementation of the order and said, if Phoenix Life declined, an application to the court for 
an order for costs would be made. 
Phoenix Life replied on 21 December 2018. It noted the case referred to but said as the 
policies contained  GMPs (mentioned in the courts decision  in Brooks v Brooks as something  
that might  cause problems)  it was considering taking its own counsels opinion  or making  its 
own application to the court to reconsider the order made. 
Mrs Ts solicitors wrote on 10 January 2019,  referring to the deadline they had imposed and 
reiterating that an order for costs against Phoenix Life would  be sought. Mrs Ts solicitors 
wrote again  on 17 January 2019 in similar  terms. 
Phoenix Life wrote on 18 January 2019.  Phoenix  Life suggested the matter would need to be 
referred back to the court and that Phoenix  Life would want  to be represented  at the hearing.  
Phoenix Life said it reserved the right to seek an order for costs  against Mrs T.
Mrs Ts solicitors replied  on 23 January  2019. They objected to what Phoenix Life had said 
about not having been put on notice  of the order and any suggestion  thered  been a failure 
to disclose to the court  all the relevant information about Mrs Ts ex husbands policies. 
Phoenix Life replied on 29 January 2019. It said that, prior to serving  the court order, the 
nature of the orders being sought hadnt  been disclosed  so it hadnt been  in a position  to 
indicate whether  such an order could be implemented. The solicitors  letter  dated 1 
Ref: DRN40481576November 2017  just indicated, having taken counsels advice, they were proceeding with an 
application to the court. A Brooks v Brooks order wasnt one of the options discussed. 
Phoenix Life added that it had instructed counsel and would contact Mrs Ts solicitors  once  
counsels advice had been received.  
Phoenix Life wrote again on 12 February 2019.  Having taken counsels advice Phoenix Life 
was willing  to implement  the order by transferring the cash  equivalent transfer value of the 
policy into a pension arrangement that Mrs T put in place  with another provider  similar  to a 
pension sharing implementation.  It wasnt possible to simply re-write the existing policy  into 
Mrs Ts name.  Phoenix  Life set out the details it required. 
Phoenix Life transferred  £303,012.73 to the new provider on 3 May 2019. 
Phoenix Life accepted thered been  a delay in completing the transfer  all the claim 
documentation was received on 1 April 2019 but not processed until 3 May 2019. No 
financial loss was identified but Phoenix Life paid Mrs T £300 compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience.  
my provisional decision
Again Ive recapped my provisional findings  here:
Thered been  some concentration on whether Phoenix Life initially incorrectly  identified the 
2001 order as an ear marking order when it wasnt and the consequences of that. From what  
Id seen Mrs Ts adviser, at the start, referred  to the policy as being  subject to an ear 
marking order. As did the letter of authority which Mrs T signed.  Phoenix Life adopted that, 
for example, in the email  exchange on 22 July 2016. I didnt think Phoenix Life should  have  
referred to the court order  as an earmarking  order if it wasnt.  But I just wanted to point out 
that the initial reference to it as such appears  to have come from Mrs T and her adviser. 
I agreed that the order wasnt  an earmarking order. The financial arrangements following the 
divorce were  agreed and recorded in that court order.  No order as such was made  in respect 
of the Phoenix  Life policy. It was dealt with by way of an undertaking from Mrs Ts ex 
husband set out in the recitals to the consent  order. 
But I didnt think any failure to correctly identify that the order wasnt  an earmarking order 
had any real impact. Phoenix Life had also said that it was prepared to treat the order as an 
earmarking order. I said Phoenix Life thought that would be better for Mrs T and afforded  her 
more protection.  
I agreed that Phoenix Life wasnt a party to the court  order.  It was Mrs Ts ex husband whod 
given the undertaking and so it was up to him to comply with it. But Phoenix Life had also 
been made aware of the undertaking. So I could  understand that Phoenix Life would have  
wanted to exercise  caution and ensure that it didnt  do anything which might mean the court 
order wasnt complied with. 
I didnt think Phoenix Life was wrong to query  the reference to income  and whether that 
meant that Mrs Ts ex husband couldnt  elect to take tax free cash and a reduced annuity. 
Mrs T wanted to have the same range of options  open to her as her ex husband had if the 
policy hadnt been the subject of the court order. But I didnt think  the terms of the 
undertaking Mrs Ts ex husband had given permitted that. The reference to income was a 
problem. 
Ref: DRN40481577There were other unintended and unforeseen issues too  such  as Mrs Ts ex husband 
suffering income  tax on the payments. Which its clear he and Mrs T hadnt anticipated and 
didnt want to happen. 
In the circumstances I didnt agree that Phoenix Life should simply have paid the pension  out 
to Mrs Ts ex husband and when  that meant hed have been responsible for the tax on the 
payments and when,  in the event of his death, Mrs Ts position  wouldnt have  been  
protected. 
Initially it seemed that Mrs T was happy  that Phoenix Life had pointed out to her some of the 
consequences of implementing the order as drafted.  I noted here Mrs Ts email  dated  25 
July 2016 and her particular  concern that it was never intended  that her ex husband would 
be taxed on the annuity payments as they remained his income.  And her acceptance that 
the 2001 court order was deficient.  
I noted that it might be, at the time and before  pension sharing orders  came  into effect 
(although ear marking orders were possible), the undertaking Mrs Ts ex husband gave was 
thought to be the best available way of dealing with the matter. And that it was only later, 
with hindsight and given that pension  sharing  orders had become the more usual way of 
adjusting pension assets on divorce, that the order  appeared lacking. The pension  freedoms 
introduced in 2015 would also have made  it more important  to have independent  control so 
as to be able to access the full range of options. 
I didnt agree that Phoenix Life, once it knew that Mrs T and her ex husband didnt  think that 
implementing the order as it stood met their needs,  should have simply gone ahead. Mrs T 
told Phoenix Life in August 2016 that, if Phoenix Life couldnt  help with a new order, shed 
instruct solicitors. Thats what she did. I didnt think Phoenix Life did anything wrong by 
pointing out the deficiencies. Nor did I think it was Phoenix Lifes responsibility to obtain  or 
facilitate a new court order. That was down  to Mrs T, her ex husband and their legal 
advisers. 
Mrs Ts discussions with her solicitor as set out in her email of 11 August 2016 appeared to 
confirm that her solicitor  agreed that a variation to the 2001  court  order  was necessary  
albeit that it should be a formality. It also appeared that Mrs T accepted  that shed have to 
bear the costs  herself. There was no indication she considered  Phoenix  Life was in any way 
responsible and should bear some or all of the costs,  then estimated  at between £1,000 and 
£2,000. Nor was there any suggestion that she considered Phoenix Life responsible  for the 
situation that had arisen.  
But Mrs Ts solicitors  ended up taking a different approach. Theyd taken counsels advice 
and an agreement  a contract between Mrs T and her ex husband  setting out how the court 
order should be implemented  was proposed, in an attempt to avoid a further application to 
the court which might  prove expensive and uncertain.  I dont  criticise that approach. But 
Phoenix Life wasnt comfortable with it. And I can see why it had some concerns. I thought 
Phoenix Lifes objections  were legitimate. So, unfortunately, the agreement didnt turn out to 
be an acceptable solution. 
By November 2017 Mrs Ts solicitors  had reverted to getting  a further court  order.  That was 
obtained in February  2018 and forwarded  to Phoenix Life in March 2018. Up until then I 
didnt think thered been any unreasonable and unavoidable delay by Phoenix Life in dealing  
with the matter. Things had become protracted  but I didnt think  that was Phoenix Lifes  fault.
Ref: DRN40481578But it then wasnt until almost a year after receiving the draft court order  that Phoenix Life 
approved it which meant the matter could then be finalised. Id looked carefully at what  
happened during the period  March 2018 to February 2019 and the time taken for Phoenix 
Life to accept the new court order and implement it. 
Mrs Ts solicitors sent the new court order to Phoenix Life on 21 March 2018.  Phoenix Life 
had some queries  which it raised  promptly on 29 March 2018.  Mrs Ts solicitors 
acknowledged that and Phoenix Life followed up with some further queries, culminating in 
Phoenix Lifes letter of 11 May 2018  which Mrs Ts solicitors acknowledged on 15 May 2018.  
But Phoenix Life didnt  hear further  until Mrs Ts solicitors wrote again  on 5 November 2018,  
having taken counsels advice on the points  raised by Phoenix  Life on 11 May 2018.  I 
couldnt see that Phoenix Life was responsible for the time lost between 11 May 2018 and 5 
November 2018  when Phoenix  Life was waiting to hear back from Mrs Ts solicitors. 
Nor did I agree, as Mrs Ts solicitors suggested  in their email  of 4 April 2018, that Phoenix 
Life was attempting  to frustrate or circumvent the new court order. It seemed  to me that 
Phoenix Life remained concerned as to whether the new court order  allowed it to deal with 
the policy and the proceeds as Mrs Ts solicitors were suggesting.  Mrs Ts solicitors had to 
revert to counsel to deal with Phoenix Lifes comments which  would suggest  Phoenix Lifes  
queries were  legitimate and not straightforward. I added hat, generally, varying a court order,  
made on divorce can be difficult.  A final financial order made by a judge  by agreement 
between the parties  or after a contested court case, can usually only be amended, especially 
sometime after the event,  in very limited circumstances.  
Phoenix Life had said that it was only after it received  Mrs Ts solicitors letter of 5 November 
2018 that it was apparent that the order was a Brooks v Brooks  type.  I thought that made  the 
intended effect of the variation, and why it was written in the way it was and in particular the 
reference to settle,  clearer. But it also raised  the question of whether that type of order  could  
be made in respect  of a policy with a GMP. 
Phoenix Life responded by return to Mrs Ts solicitors letter  of 5 November 2018  Phoenix 
Life raised some queries  by letter dated 7 November 2018. But it wasnt  until 13 December 
2018 that the solicitors responded. Again I didnt see that Phoenix Life was responsible for 
that further delay  of three weeks or so. 
I noted that it wasnt until over two months  later, on 12 February 2019, that Phoenix Life 
confirmed that it was prepared to implement  the order. Phoenix Life didnt meet  the deadline 
imposed and reiterated several times by Mrs Ts solicitors  18 January 2019   at least  in 
terms of confirming it was prepared to implement the order.  Phoenix Life said instead that 
the matter should be referred  back to the court. There were  then some  further exchanges  
which, it seems, persuaded Phoenix  Life to rethink and refer the matter to counsel. 
I said it was arguable that Phoenix Life could have  decided to do that sooner, which  might  
have led, in turn, to Phoenix Life confirming earlier that it was prepared to implement the 
order. 
But I didnt think that, overall, the time taken  was excessive. And any time saved would have 
been a matter of a few weeks only, especially given the intervention  of the holiday period. In 
the main Phoenix  Life dealt with the matter  promptly throughout. I didnt think  it would be 
reasonable, and taken  in context, to point  to a period of a few weeks  when, arguably, 
Ref: DRN40481579Phoenix Life might have progressed things marginally quicker and say that Phoenix Life 
should pay compensation for that small period of delay. 
Once counsels advice  was obtained, Phoenix Life was able to agree to implement the 
revised court order and pay the transfer  value into a new arrangement with the new provider 
Mrs T had selected. 
But Phoenix Life identified  there  was a delay at the end of the process (between 1 April 2019 
and 3 May 2019) and offered Mrs T £300 for that. Thats in addition to the £100  it paid in 
September 2016. I thought that was fair enough.   
I recognised that Mrs T had incurred substantial legal costs. But I didnt think Phoenix Life 
was responsible for those. My view was that the root cause of the problems was that the 
wording of the 2001 court order  didnt  match  what  Mrs T and her ex husband wanted to 
happen. I thought Phoenix  Life was right to proceed  with caution and make sure that it didnt 
do anything which wasnt consistent with the court order or when  implementing  the order  as 
it stood wouldnt bring about the result that Mrs T and her ex husband  wanted.  
I didnt agree that Phoenix Life should  pay Mrs Ts legal  costs or make a contribution  
towards them. Nor did I think Phoenix  Life should  make any further payment for distress  and 
inconvenience.
comments in response to my provisional decision
Phoenix Life had no further comments.  
Mrs T did comment. She said my provisional decision was neither fair nor reasonable. She 
made the following main  points:
Id said the root cause of the problem was that the 2001 court order  didnt match 
what she and her ex husband  wanted  to happen. But shed complained about the 
solicitors whod acted  for her in 2001  and her complaint hadnt been upheld.  If her 
solicitors hadnt acted wrongly then Phoenix  Life must have been incorrect in its 
interpretation of the order. 
Phoenix Life is the expert and should  have  realised from the outset that using the 
earmarking term was wrong. Instead of causing delays Phoenix Life should  have 
looked more closely  at the order and what was agreed between her and her ex 
husband.
It didnt wash that Phoenix Life had taken  the original reference  to the order  being 
an earmarking order from her. Phoenix  Life had initially sent forms to her to confirm  
her options after advising she couldnt access the fund until her ex husband had 
reached age 55. Id said that no order as such was made  in respect of the policy  
which had been dealt with by way of an undertaking from her ex husband. Hed 
communicated that and his wishes to Phoenix  Life on a number of occasions. It had 
been made plain to Phoenix Life in writing  what the parties had agreed to. 
Id said Phoenix Life wasnt a party to the court order and that it was Mrs Ts ex 
husband whod given the undertaking  and so it was up to him to comply  with it. Both 
she and her ex husband asked Phoenix Life a number of times what  it required to 
enable the fund to be passed over to her as had always been agreed.  Phoenix Life 
wouldnt commit and recommended she take legal  advice.
She went to new solicitors who indicated costs  between £1,000 and £2,000  which,  at 
that stage, she was prepared to incur  as Phoenix Life wasnt  going  to commit to 
Ref: DRN404815710giving further assistance in carrying out what had been agreed between  her and her 
ex husband. 
She didnt agree  that the overall time taken wasnt excessive. Continued resistance 
from Phoenix Life led to her solicitors taking  a different approach  which resulted in 
escalated costs.  If Phoenix Life had engaged more with her and her ex husband and 
had presented solutions that everyone  could agree  on, things could have been 
resolved much earlier. Repeated  communications to and from differing contacts at 
Phoenix Life delayed  matters further. If Phoenix  Life had complied with her ex 
husbands written  authority to help make the whole  fund payable  to her, years could 
have been saved. 
Id noted that Phoenix Life was eventually given a deadline to respond  but didnt 
meet it. It was only when  her solicitors threatened Phoenix Life with costs if it went  
back to court that Phoenix Life reconsidered.  It wasnt until 12 February 2019 that 
Phoenix Life confirmed  it was prepared to implement the order, which  was three 
years after shed  made her claim. Id said it was arguable Phoenix Life could  have 
decided to do that earlier. 
Id also said that Phoenix Life had identified  thered been  a delay at the end of the 
process. But earlier communications were delayed due to Phoenix Life continually 
sending letters to her old address.  One of the uncashed cheques for £100  in 2016 
was, in part, an apology for using the wrong  address. That was symptomatic  of 
Phoenix Lifes lack of attention to detail. 
And Id said that Phoenix Life wasnt responsible for time lost between 11 May 2018 
and 5 November  2018 when it was waiting to hear from her solicitors. But between 
April 2018 and February 2019  thered been  thirty  letters  and twelve telephone calls 
made by her solicitors  to try to resolve the issue with Phoenix Life. 
Thats at the very heart of her complaint.  If Phoenix Life had been more  helpful and 
respectful of her and her ex husbands wishes, things  could  have been  resolved a lot 
earlier and at a fraction of the costs. Phoenix  Life was always  aware of what  she and 
her ex husband wanted to achieve.  She understood thered be some costs 
implications  around £2,000. But Phoenix Life wouldnt  allow its legal team  to talk to 
her solicitors to see if the issues  could  be resolved  easily.  Phoenix Life wasnt  
looking  out for her. It was only by referring  to the Brooks  v Brooks case  and 
threatening to claim costs  that Phoenix  Life eventually  complied. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so Ive paid particular attention  to Mrs Ts comments. Im sorry shes  unhappy  with 
my provisional decision. But, although  Ive considered carefully  the points shes  raised, I still 
dont think her complaint  should be upheld. 
I know that Mrs T has spent far more in legal fees than she anticipated. But I would only be 
able to say that Phoenix Life should  meet those if I was satisfied that it had caused Mrs T to 
incur them, or some  of them at least,  unnecessarily. I dont think that was the case. 
I said the 2001 court order didnt match what Mrs T and her ex husband  wanted  to happen. 
But that didnt  imply any criticism of the solicitors  who acted for Mrs T almost twenty years 
ago. I said the undertaking Mrs Ts ex husband  gave may have been thought to be the best 
available way of dealing with the matter at the time.  And that it was only later,  with hindsight 
and given that pension sharing orders had become the more  usual way of adjusting  pension 
Ref: DRN404815711assets on divorce, that the order appeared lacking. The pension  freedoms introduced  in 
2015 would  also have made  it more  important to have independent  control so as to be able 
to access the full range of options.  
The fact that Mrs Ts complaint about  the solicitors wasnt upheld doesnt  mean  that Phoenix 
Life must have done something wrong some  fifteen or so years later when it came to 
implementing the court order or rather ensuring compliance with the undertaking Mrs Ts ex 
husband had given. 
I said, in my provisional decision, that any failure to correctly identify that the order  wasnt an 
earmarking order didnt  have any real impact. My reference to the term having first been 
used by Mrs T was largely in passing.  I think, whatever label was used, Phoenix  Life 
understood what Mrs T and her ex-husband wanted  to achieve. And that there was no 
dispute between  them. 
The problem was that a strict  interpretation  of the undertaking  wouldnt achieve the result 
they wanted and gave  rise to unintended  tax consequences for Mrs Ts ex husband. 
I accepted the undertaking  had been  given by Mrs Ts ex husband  and so it was up to him, 
not Phoenix Life, to comply with it. But I think Phoenix Life had to protect  its own position. It 
couldnt do anything  which  wasnt consistent  with the court  order  including  the undertaking 
and which  could have  been challenged later, and despite Mrs Ts and her ex-husbands 
agreed position at the time.  
Mrs T considers that Phoenix Life should  have been  more  constructive and engaged with 
her solicitors  more, including speaking with them and suggesting  possible  solutions. But the 
matter was between  Mrs T and her ex-husband. Phoenix Life was involved because it held 
the policy and the funds.  I dont think there  was any onus  on Phoenix Life to be as proactive 
as Mrs T suggests. It wasnt acting for Mrs T and the policyholder  remained her ex husband. 
But, in any event, I dont  agree that Phoenix Life was unhelpful or resistant. 
I note what Mrs T says about delays. And Phoenix Life using the wrong address for her. But 
I cant see that would have impacted on the time taken to sort out the implications of court 
order when, once it became obvious  that there was an issue,  correspondence  was between  
Phoenix Life and Mrs Ts solicitors. And, as Mrs T acknowledges, use of the wrong  address 
for her was taken into account in compensation paid earlier.
As to delays generally,  it did all take a long time  over three years from when Mrs T first 
said she wanted to access the policy proceeds. Mrs T says things were only concluded by 
the threat  of a court order for costs. And Phoenix  had failed  to meet  a deadline imposed by 
Mrs Ts solicitors. 
In my provisional decision I did identify a possible  period  of delay on Phoenix Lifes  part  
between 13 December 2018 and 12 February 2019.  But I didnt think, looking at how the 
matter had progressed  overall, it would be right to focus on that and say that Phoenix  Life 
should pay compensate for that, relatively small, delay. Thats still my view.  
Overall I think  Phoenix Life did deal with the matter reasonably promptly. And I cant see that 
changes in personnel added to the time taken. On the contrary, it seems that Mrs Ts main  
contact at Phoenix Life remained consistent  throughout.  
Ref: DRN404815712my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making  any award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2021.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4048157