K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that J D Williams & Company  Limited lent irresponsibly  when  it approved 
credit limit increases relating to a revolving credit agreement  she had. 
background
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions are set out in my 
provisional decision dated 14 April 2020   a copy of which is attached  and forms part of this 
final decision. In my provisional decision  I explained why I didnt think  Miss Ds complaint 
should be upheld.  I invited both parties  to send me any additional  comments or information 
they wanted me to take into account before I made  my final decision. 
J D Williams responded to say it had nothing further  to add. 
Miss D responded  and told us she was party to a debt management  plan around  the time J 
D Williams lent to her. Miss D also said that our service has previously upheld other 
irresponsible lending  complaints she made against  different businesses  and that she had to 
borrow to pay priority bills. Miss D didnt accept my provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss D says our service has upheld  other complaints  about irresponsible  
lending shes referred to us. But we look at each complaint on its own merits. That means  Ill 
consider the circumstances  of Miss Ds complaint independently. But Ive reconsidered  
whether J D Williams lent irresponsibly to Miss D in light of her recent comments.  
Businesses are free to decide  who to lend to and what  checks to complete before deciding  
whether to proceed. Miss D says she was party to a debt management plan around the time 
she borrowed from J D Williams. But J D Williams has already confirmed it will accept 
customers with some adverse credit  on their credit file. So whilst I dont doubt what  Miss D 
has told us, Im satisfied J D Williams took her credit history into account before deciding  
whether to proceed. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  I can see that J D Williams did check Miss Ds credit 
history and assessed each credit  limit, in line with its lending criteria,  before agreeing  to 
proceed. Whilst I note Miss Ds concerns, I remain satisfied  that J D Williams decision lend 
on all three occasions  was reasonable, based  on what  it knew about her. 
Miss D has told us that she had to borrow to pay priority debts. But I dont think  that would 
have been clear to J D Williams when it reviewed  her account. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss D but I havent been persuaded to change the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. I still dont agree J D Williams  lent irresponsibly so Im 
not upholding Miss Ds complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN46618612Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN46618613Copy of provisional decision  dated 14 April 2020
Complaint
Miss D complains  that J D Williams & Company  Limited  lent irresponsibly when  it approved credit limit 
increases relating to a revolving credit  agreement she had. 
Background
In September 2014 Miss D opened a revolving credit facility with J D Williams and was given  a £150 
credit limit. The credit  limit increased to £300 on 27 January 2015.  On 
1 December 2015 J D Williams increased  the credit limit to £500. 
Miss D has told us she experienced some financial difficulties which  meant she wasnt able to 
maintain her payments  to J D Williams and the account was defaulted and sold to a third party. 
Miss D complained  that J D Williams had lent irresponsibly and it responded  on 
13 August 2018. J D Williams didnt agree that it had lent irresponsibly when it approved  
Miss Ds credit limit increases and didnt uphold  the complaint. Miss D went on to refer her complaint 
to our service  and it was passed  to an investigator. 
The investigator upheld Miss Ds complaint  and said that J D Williams decision to increase the credit 
limit to £300 then £500 was irresponsible. The investigator thought  J D Williams hadnt followed 
industry guidelines  published by The UK Cards Association. The investigator said J D Williams  should 
refund all interest and charges applied  to Miss Ds account after the first credit limit increase to £300 
on 27 January 2015. 
J D Williams didnt agree  with the investigator and pointed  out it had never been a member  of The UK 
Cards Association or its subsequent trade body, UK Finance.  J D Williams  said it had considered  
Miss Ds position before agreeing to small credit limit increases that it believed were  affordable. J D 
Williams also said it was willing to work with Miss D to find an affordable way to settle the outstanding 
balance. As J D Williams  didnt accept the investigators  view, Miss Ds complaint has been passed to 
me to make  a decision.  
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Before a business  agrees to lend or increase a credit limit Id expect  it to complete proportionate 
checks to ensure the repayments are sustainable  for the borrower. In this case, J D Williams 
approved the account  in September 2014 with a credit limit of £150.  The credit limit increased  to £300 
on 27 January 2015 and £500  on 1 December  2015. Ive looked  at the checks  J D Williams  completed 
each time before it decided to lend. 
Having done so, I can see that when J D Williams first approved the account and later increased  the 
credit limit, it considered a range of information  about Miss D. The systems evidence Ive seen  shows 
that J D Williams looked  at Miss Ds credit file to see how she was managing  her other  credit. J D 
Williams also took the level of unsecured  credit Miss D had into account. In addition, J D Williams  
applied its own behavioural score to Miss Ds account to see whether  it met the criteria for approval 
and limit increases. Im satisfied, from what Ive seen,  that J D Williams  completed proportionate 
checks before deciding to lend. 
Miss D has recently sent us a copy of her credit report. The information on a credit report  goes back 
six years so its not possible  to know  exactly what was showing on it when  Miss D first applied to J D 
Williams. But I havent  seen any entries that lead me to think  J D Williams  lent irresponsibly.  I can see 
there was a reasonably  low level of adverse credit in 2015. But 
Ref: DRN46618614J D Williams has told us it will accept consumers with a low credit score and a small amount of 
adverse credit is acceptable.  Im satisfied J D Williams  was aware of the information on Miss Ds 
credit file before  it agreed  to lend and later increase the credit limit. 
Whilst I understand Miss Ds concern that this debt formed part of a larger problem, Im satisfied J D 
Williams completed  proportionate  checks before it agreed to lend in 2014 and later increased  the 
credit limit twice in 2015. Im sorry  to disappoint  Miss D but I havent found that J D Williams  lent 
irresponsibly or that it failed to complete reasonable checks before deciding to proceed.  As I havent 
been persuaded that J D Williams was wrong to lend, my provisional decision is likely  to be that I 
dont uphold  her complaint.  
Ill consider any further comments or additional information  that Miss D or J D Williams wants to 
submit before I make  my final decision. 
My provisional decision
Unless I receive something that changes my mind, my provisional decision is that I dont intend to 
uphold this complaint. 
Miss D and J D Williams  have until 14 May 2020  to send me any additional points they would like me 
to take into account before  I make my final decision. 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4661861