K821x#15complaint
Mr J, sole director  of a limited  company  E, complains that an international payment made 
from Es account with Metro Bank  PLC did not reach its intended recipient. And the bank 
failed to explain why.
background
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on 24 April 2019. A copy  of this is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. In it I set out why I thought  this complaint should be upheld 
and what Metro needed to do to put things right.
Both parties  have been given time to consider what I said.  Mr J has responded and says that 
he accepts my provisional decision.  Hes also explained that he has since  made this 
payment with another bank, and it was completed  without any problems in 4 working days. 
Metro have responded and said that they agree they made mistakes here and accept  my 
provisional decision. Though they feel that the amount of compensation I proposed they 
should pay to Company  E is quite high.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties have  accepted my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to reach a different decision here.
I have noted Metros comments about  the level of compensation Ive asked them to pay 
Company E. They accept  its reasonable for them to cover the financial loss suffered due to 
exchange rate differences when  the payment was returned to Company  E. But they feel the 
£450 compensation Ive awarded for non-financial losses is high in proportion to the amount 
of money Company E was trying to make  a payment for here  which was around  £11,000.  
Ive thought about what theyve said. But I still think this is a fair amount of compensation for 
them to pay to put things right, for the reasons I outlined in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Metro  Bank  PLC. To put things right I 
require them to pay Company E £158.55  to reimburse them for financial loss. And a further  
£450 in cumulative compensation  to recognise  the inconvenience caused  by their actions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J, in his 
capacity as sole director of Company  E, to accept  or reject  my decision  before 
15 June 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN48774712copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr J, sole director  of a limited company E, complains that an international payment made  from Es 
account with Metro Bank PLC did not reach its intended  recipient.  And the bank failed  to explain why.
background
On 24 August 2018 Mr J made a payment from Es business  account  with Metro  to a business partner 
in India. The money  was returned to Es account a few days later.  Mr J says he asked Metro why the 
payment was returned  but they didnt give him an explanation.
On 12 September 2018 Mr J sent the payment  again. Hes told us he provided more  information  this 
time to try and ensure the bank could process it. But the intended  recipient told him they hadnt 
received it, so he contacted Metro to find out why. 
Metro told him the funds  had left Es account.  They contacted  their intermediary  bank in the UK to try 
and trace the payment. And to apologise for the inconvenience they refunded the £25 payment fee 
Company E had paid to make the transfer.
Mr J wasnt  happy that the money hadnt reached its intended recipient,  or been credited  back  to Es 
account. So he brought his complaint to our service.  He is also upset about  the service he received 
from Metro as he was promised call backs that he didnt  receive. 
Our investigator didnt think that Metro had done  anything  wrong.  They felt that the money  had been 
held up by the beneficiary banks intermediary in India. They  thought this was outside of Metros  
control. 
Mr J still doesnt think Metro  treated his business fairly as the payment wasnt made. He says Metro  
have failed to provide the service  his company paid for. And as a result of the payment not reaching 
India he hasnt  been  able to carry out the business he intended. So the case  has been referred to me 
to review.
The payment has now been credited back to Es account, but Mr J has complained that hes received 
a lower amount than was originally sent.  Metro have explained that this is due to a difference in the 
exchange rate, and that this is outside of their control. But theyve said they are happy for me to also 
consider this issue within my decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I know they will be disappointed but I dont think Metro did 
everything they should have done to treat Company E fairly here. So I will be asking  them to pay 
Company E £158.55 to reimburse them for financial  losses they incurred. And to pay a further £450 
compensation to reflect the inconvenience their actions  caused. Ill explain why.
The first payment was debited from Es account on 24 August 2018 and returned on the 28 August 
2018. I understand Mr J contacted Metro a number  of times to ask why this payment didnt go 
through. He wanted to know  if there was anything  he could do differently to ensure it would  go 
through next time. Hes told us that Metro  failed  to call him back  a number of times and he wasnt  able 
to get an answer.
Metros payment team have now explained  that the beneficiary bank were  unable to put the funds  in 
the recipients account. Theyve also given me a copy of the message they received from the 
beneficiary bank. I dont  think it is clear from the message why the payment failed. So I dont think that 
based on the information Metro had they couldve explained the specific problem to Mr J. 
Ref: DRN48774713However, he did ask them to investigate this. And on 20th September 2018 Mr J called Metro and 
asked them to raise a formal complaint as he had been promised call backs about this payment that 
he hadnt received. On this call Metro told Mr J theyd raised a payment trace  on 10th September  2018 
to try and find out why this failed  though they havent provided me with any evidence of this. Metro  
said they hadnt received  any answers from this payment trace, so they hadnt been back  in contact 
with Mr J. He was also assured on this call that he would  receive an update in 3 working days about 
his complaint. But I cant see any evidence that this was provided to him. 
I dont think Metro  provided Mr J and Company  E with the level of service they should  expect here. It 
was clearly very important for E to make this payment to the beneficiary. And it was for a large 
amount of money. I understand Mr J spent a significant amount of time chasing Metro. And I think it 
would have been reasonable to expect them to keep him updated. To recognise the inconvenience 
this caused Company E I think its fair to ask Metro to pay it £100 compensation.
Mr J made a second payment request  from Es account  on 12 September  2018.  I can see that the 
funds left the account on 14 September 2018. I understand Metro contacted  Mr J with a query about 
the payment on 13 September  2018.  And that they use an intermediary  bank to make international 
payments. So I dont  think  its unreasonable  the money  wasnt debited  on 12 September 2018.  And I 
think Metro  processed the payment in a reasonable timeframe.
However Mr Js business partner didnt receive  the money.  I need to consider whether it is fair to hold 
Metro responsible for this. So Ive looked at what actions  Metro took after the payment  left them.
Metro have given us their records which show the beneficiary bank asked them for some more 
information about the payment on 17 September 2018. The message  said that some  KYC (know your 
customer) details were required. And it advised that the beneficiary bank  had put Es payment on 
hold for a maximum of 5 days. Metro received the same message again on 20 September  2018. They 
replied the same day saying they were chasing Mr J to get the information, which they then provided 
on 21 September 2018.  
Its not clear why Metro  didnt reply to the beneficiarys message sooner, as it appears they had the 
information required without  having to speak  to Mr J. But I can see that they did reply  within the 5 day 
timescale set by the beneficiary  bank.  So I dont  think  that this delay  in itself would have prevented 
the payment from being made.  
However, it doesnt  appear that Metro supplied the beneficiary  bank with all of the information they 
asked for. One of the details requested was Es registration number. And this wasnt included  in 
Metros reply. Ive listened  to the calls Metro  had with Mr J and I cant see that they contacted him to 
ask for this at any point.
Metro received another request for information from the beneficiary bank on 24 September 2018. Mr J 
was frustrated  when he was told about this as he felt they were asking  for information hed provided 
before. And this made him doubt whether Metro were doing all they could to make Es payment.
I understand Mr Js frustration. I can see hed provided  some of this information to Metro  before and it 
was included on the payment instruction. But having looked at the beneficiary banks  messages, and 
listened to the phone calls Metro had with Mr J, I can see Metro were  just repeating what had been 
asked by the beneficiary bank. And some of the information asked  for, like a passport or driving 
license number, I dont think theyd been given before. 
Metro responded quickly to this second request for information. However,  as well as the new details 
requested, the message again asked Metro to provide Es registration number. Metro didnt ask Mr J 
for this when they spoke to him about the request  on 25 September  2018.  And again this wasnt 
provided to the beneficiary bank.
Metro have told us that they didnt provide  Company Es registration number  because they didnt feel 
they had to. Theyd  already provided  Company  Es account number   and they felt that this unique 
Ref: DRN48774714identifier was sufficient.  Im afraid  I dont agree  it was reasonable for Metro to make the assumption 
that they didnt need to provide this information. Or at least explain to the beneficiary bank why they 
hadnt provided it. They  were asked for it twice, so it was clearly something the beneficiary bank 
wanted to know.
The beneficiary  bank returned the funds with a message saying that theyd done so because  not all of 
the KYC (key customer  information) had been  provided. Given  that Metro doesnt appear to have 
given them everything they asked for, or given  Mr J the chance to provide  it, I dont think Metro  did 
everything they should have done here.  And I think, on balance, its more likely than not that this 
prevented the payment from being made. 
Mr J has told us that as a result of this payment not being made, he had to set up a new account with 
another bank  to make the transfer.  And the investment  he was looking to make with it was delayed by 
nine months.  Hes accepted that Company E isnt able to show us any evidence of financial loss 
suffered as a result of this delay. But its clear  that the failed payment caused Company E great  
inconvenience. And as such I feel it would be fair to ask Metro to compensate them  with £250 to 
recognise this.
Mr J asked Metro to return the funds to Es account if the payment couldnt  be made. But the money  
wasnt returned  for over a month after he attempted  to make the payment.  And 23 days after the 
beneficiary bank said they couldnt complete the transfer.
Metro received a message from their intermediary on 26 September 2018 asking  for information so 
that the payment could  be returned.  Metro didnt  respond to this or another message chasing it. 
Theyve explained  this was because on 27 September 2018 Mr J told them  his business  partner had 
confirmed the beneficiary bank had the funds and were  going  to complete the transfer. So Metro  
thought the issues with the payment had been  resolved.
I think  it was reasonable that they thought  this new information was more up to date than the 
message from their intermediary. And that they closed  their investigation into Es payment  at this 
point. However, on 1 October 2018 Mr J explained to Metro there had been a misunderstanding and 
the beneficiary bank did not in fact have  the funds.  I can see Metro  received another  message  from 
their intermediary asking them to provide information so that they could return  the payment  on 3 
October 2018. And I would have expected them to respond to this promptly, or contact Mr J as soon 
as possible if they didnt have the information needed. 
Metro havent given me any evidence  to confirm  when they provided this information to the 
intermediary. But I can see Metro received the money on 18 October  2018,  and credited it back  to E 
the next day. 
Given Metro  advised Mr J that international  payments  are normally made within 5 working days  I think  
its fair to expect that this money  should have been returned within  a similar timescale.  Its not clear 
how much  of the delay here was due to Metro, and how much their intermediary. But as they were 
acting as an agent of Metro,  Metro is responsible for their actions here. To compensate Company  E 
for the delay in returning their funds, I think it would be fair to ask Metro to pay them a further £100 to 
reflect the inconvenience this caused, and potential lost interest payments.
When the funds were returned to Company E, they received £158.55 less than they had initially  tried 
to transfer. Metro have explained this is due to differences in the exchange rate  which  they say is 
outside of their control. I accept why this was the case. But as Ive outlined  why I feel Metro  are 
responsible for the payment  not being made, and then for it taking so long to be returned to Mr Js 
account, I think it would be fair to ask them  to reimburse Company E this amount.
Ref: DRN48774715my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC for the reasons 
outlined above. 
To put things right I require them  to pay Company  E £158.55 to reimburse them for financial loss. And 
a further  £450 in cumulative  compensation  to recognise  the inconvenience  that their actions caused.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4877471