K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained about fees and charges added to his mortgage account  by UCB Home 
Loans Corporation  Ltd. He has also complained that UCB failed to follow  the Mortgage Pre-
action Protocol (the full title of which is the Pre-Action  Protocol  for Possession Claims based 
on Mortgage or Home  Purchase Plan Arrears  in Respect of Residential  Property   and 
which I will call the Protocol) and so should not have begun possession  proceedings  in 
February 2018. Finally,  Mr B says that UCB  should  have  sent annual  mortgage statements 
to him by registered  post. He says there  is no proof these were  ever sent.
I will refer to Mr B throughout,  as he is the account holder, even though the complaint  has 
been run on his behalf by his son, Mr C.
background 
On 18 November 1988 Mr B took out a mortgage loan of £44,228.26 with UCB over a term 
of 25 years.  In matrimonial proceedings in about 2008, I am told that it was ordered by the 
court that the equitable interest in the property was to be held on trust for Mr Bs former  wife 
and that when the mortgage was repaid the legal title to the property would be transferred to 
her. 
The mortgage term expired on 14 May 2013  but the outstanding balance of the loan still 
hasnt been repaid. UCB has agreed several term extensions, the last of which  expired  in 
May 2016. Since then the loan balance has remained  outstanding, although it has been 
reduced. 
In January 2018, after receiving a letter from UCBs solicitors, Mr B made a Subject Access 
Request (SAR) and complained about what he saw as UCBs unreasonableness in 
attempting to seek possession. Mr B says that UCB  had granted  a further  one-year  term 
extension in February 2017, and so should  not have attempted to seek possession.
In February 2018  UCB began proceedings to recover possession of the property. A hearing  
was fixed for 19 March 2018. The hearing was adjourned  and on 2 May 2018  another  
complaint was raised with UCB  about fees and charges on the account, and about UCB  
commencing possession proceedings.
UCB agreed  it hadnt dealt with the SAR properly. It also acknowledged  that it could have 
made it clearer that it hadnt granted a further term extension in February  2017.  It offered  
compensation totalling £425 for the poor customer service it had provided around these 
issues. 
The complaint was brought to us, UCB  didnt consent to us looking at fees and charges 
applied more than six years before the complaint was first raised. In an attempt to resolve 
the complaint,  UCB offered to refund charges applied from February 2012 onwards. 
The investigator thought the offer of compensation for the poor customer  service around  the 
SAR was fair. She also thought the fee refund  was fair. The investigator  also explained that 
UCB was required to follow the Protocol. But because the mortgage hadnt been  repaid, she 
didnt think it had acted  unreasonably.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators findings and has made a number of detailed 
submissions. In summary, he disagrees  that we cant look at all fees and charges applied. 
Ref: DRN41576992He says that he only became aware  UCB had applied fees and charges  to the account when 
he received the response to the SAR, because hed never had any mortgage  statements. 
Mr B wants  us to obtain evidence of proof  of postage of the mortgage statements.
Mr B also says that UCB  has breached the mortgage regulations   specifically rule 13 of the 
Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business. Sourcebook (MCOB 13). He says UCB 
has failed to act reasonably  in relation to proposals to repay mortgage arrears. Mr B says 
that an offer of £400 per month has been made  to UCB,  which would cover the interest on 
the mortgage and reduce the outstanding  balance on a monthly basis.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
fees and charges : Im satisfied that we cant consider fees and charges applied before 
January 2012,  six years  before  the complaint was brought. I dont think  it was only when the 
SAR was received  in 2018 that Mr B first became aware of fees and charges applied before 
January 2012.  
Lenders arent required to send  statements  by recorded delivery or registered post. Thats  
because the envelopes in which the statements are sent contain a return  address. So if 
there was some reason why a statement  wasnt delivered, itd be returned by Royal  Mail to 
UCB. As there is no history of returned  statements on this account,  I am reasonably  entitled  
to assume that the statements were delivered. There  dont seem to be any exceptional 
circumstances which would have  prevented  Mr B from complaining  about any fees and 
charges on the account between November 1988 and January 2012.
So Im only looking at fees and charges applied since January 2012. These are as follows:
November 2014 £23.00
December 2014 £23.00
January 2015 £23.00
February 2015 £23.00
March 2015 £23.00
April 2015 £23.00
May 2015 £23.00
November 2017 £18.00
February 2018 £18.00
Total: £197.00
UCB has agreed to refund these.  In addition, UCB has said it will remove the solicitors  
charges of £493 from February/March 2018 in relation to the possession proceedings. 
Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable. The charges  were properly applied (except for that in 
April 2015, when more  than the monthly repayment  was received). Im also satisfied that 
UCB is entitled to apply  any solicitors fees in the future; its decision to remove  fees in 
relation to the March 2018 possession  proceedings doesnt mean that UCB isnt entitled  to 
recover any future legal fees.
Ref: DRN41576993possession action: Mr B says UCB  has failed to follow either  the Protocol or MCOB 13 
when dealing with the mortgage  arrears. But I am afraid I have to correct a 
misunderstanding on the part of Mr B.
The Protocol and MCOB 13 apply  to cases where  the mortgage term has not come to an 
end. In those circumstances, lenders are required to consider how best they can help 
customers who are in arrears with their monthly  repayments to repay the arrears during the 
remainder of the mortgage term.
But in Mr Bs case, the mortgage term has come to an end, so the Protocol doesnt apply in 
these circumstances.  Thats because  UCBs claim for possession isnt based on arrears   
its based on breach  of contract because the mortgage debt hasnt been repaid at the end of 
the term. However, I think UCB has kept to the spirit of the Protocol by agreeing to extend 
the term several times from 2013 until 2016  to give Mr B time either  to repay  the borrowing 
to UCB or sell the property.
The Protocol mirrors what lenders are required to do under MCOB 13 to help borrowers  in 
arrears on their monthly repayments. But as with the Protocol, MCOB 13 relates  to helping 
borrowers to repay arrears over the remaining term of the mortgage.  It doesnt apply to those 
borrowers who are in breach of contract at the end of the mortgage term.
Having said this, I think UCB has acted reasonably in allowing almost five years forbearance 
since the mortgage expired in 2013  before  taking  action in 2018.  I appreciate  there was 
confusion about  whether  or not thered  been a further term extension  in March 2017.  But 
given we are now nearly two years on from that and the mortgage  balance still hasnt been 
repaid, Im not persuaded there  has been any detriment to Mr B in this regard.
further points : The remaining mortgage  balance is, by todays standards, modest,  about  
£35,000. But that doesnt mean UCB isnt entitled to be paid what is owed to it. The money 
was lent to Mr B in 1988 on the expectation  that hed repay it in 2013.  So I dont think  its 
unreasonable for UCB to expect this to happen  sooner rather than later. UCB is required to 
consider any repayment proposals fairly   but UCB isnt under any obligation  to extend the 
term, or to accept long-term payment proposals.  
I think Mr B might  benefit  from some  advice about  his options  from a financial adviser,  
solicitor or an advice agency such as Shelter or Citizens  Advice.  In this context, I appreciate 
the position of Mr Bs former wife also has to be taken  into consideration. When  the court 
order was made in the divorce in (I am told) 2008,  it would have been anticipated that the 
mortgage would be repaid  in 2013,  at which point  the legal title would be transferred to her. 
She is the beneficial owner of the property. But as Mr Bs former wife is not a party  to the 
mortgage, her position isnt something  I can take account of in relation to this complaint.  But 
I acknowledge that the family circumstances are not straightforward.
In the circumstances, I dont think I can reasonably order UCB not to take any further  action 
on this case. The debt owed to it is long overdue. But I would also ask UCB to think carefully 
about all the circumstances of this case,  given the vulnerability of Mr Bs ex-wife, who is the 
beneficial owner  of the property. She is in occupation of the home, and I understand is in 
poor health. She has been paying  the mortgage  for some time and has been able to reduce 
the outstanding balance  on the loan.
Ref: DRN41576994my final decision
My decision  is that in full and final settlement  of this complaint, UCB Home Loans 
Corporation Ltd must  reimburse fees and charges  of £197 (as set out above) and remove 
any interest applied  on those fees. UCB Home Loans Corporation Ltd must also remove  the 
solicitors fees of £493 from the account  in relation to the court proceedings in 
February/March 2018. Finally, UCB  Home  Loans  Corporation Ltd must pay compensation to 
Mr B totalling £425 for poor customer service. I make no other order  or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4157699