K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr R says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered that this policy was sold in a meeting  where Halifax made  a recommendation 
to take PPI.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made Mr R aware that he had a choice about  buying the PPI and that
he chose to take it. On Mr Rs signed credit card application form theres a typed x 
in the box for wanting Credit Card Repayment cover (PPI). 
As this policy was sold during a meeting and some  of Mr Rs personal details have 
been typed in too, I think its likely  that the option  to take PPI was chosen  following a 
discussion between the adviser and Mr R and then the x was typed in by the adviser  
to reflect  what hed decided - before Mr R signed  the agreement. 
So I think its likely Mr R knew  he had a choice whether to take the PPI policy or not, 
and chose to take it to protect his credit  card repayments.
Ive carefully considered  what Mr R has said about not being aware that PPI had 
been added. 
But Ive also considered that the PPI premiums  would have appeared on Mr Rs 
monthly credit card statements when he had an outstanding monthly balance. I think  
that Mr R would reasonably questioned the PPI  much sooner than he did when PPI 
appeared on his monthly credit card statements.  But I havent seen evidence that he 
did and the PPI remained on the account for some time after it was added.
Given the time thats passed since this sale, its possible that Mr R might  not recall  
everything from the sale clearly now. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr R so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN40464652Ive thought about everything Mr R has said - including  what hes said about not needing PPI 
because of his existing means of making his repayments. But I still think that the 
recommendation to take PPI was suitable and the policy was right for Mr R because:
it seems reasonable  to assume  that as the PPI policy could have paid out for up to 
12 months, this is for longer than Mr Rs savings  likely would have lasted. In addition,  
having the PPI policy  would have  meant  that Mr R had the option  of not needing to 
use his savings to make his repayments - keeping  them intact for future  use.
although Mr R has said that he could have relied on his wife to help him make his 
repayments, circumstances can change.  Although his wife may have wanted to help 
him make his repayments, she may not have been in a position  to help when 
needed.
Mr R has said that he was only entitled to statutory sick pay if he was unwell and 
unable to work.
So these points dont  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr R paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr R back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr R now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4046465