K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
background
Mr P was given eight loans by Uncle  Buck between  July 2013 and January 2015.  Mr P 
wasnt always able to repay his loans when  originally agreed,  so he rolled them over by 
paying some  additional  interest. And Mr P faced difficulties repaying  his final loan and 
entered a repayment arrangement with Uncle Buck. But all of Mr Ps loans have now been  
fully repaid. A summary  of Mr Ps borrowing from Uncle Buck  is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount 
1 29/07/2013 23/08/2013 £   100
2 23/08/2013 24/09/2013 £   200
3 24/09/2013 24/10/2013 £   300
4 30/05/2014 22/08/2014 £   350
5 22/08/2014 22/11/2014 £   375
6 04/12/2014 22/12/2014 £   400
7 22/12/2014 08/01/2015 £   200
8 09/01/2015 29/04/2016 £   550
When Mr P first complained to Uncle Buck it accepted that the frequency of Mr Ps borrowing 
of loans 7 and 8 should have caused  some  concerns. So it offered to refund the interest that 
Mr P had paid on those loans. But Mr P didnt accept that offer so brought his complaint  to 
this Service.
Mr Ps complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  She thought that 
Uncle Buck  shouldnt have given the last three loans to Mr P. So she asked Uncle Buck  to 
pay some  compensation  to Mr P.
Uncle Buck  didnt agree with that assessment, although it noted its earlier offer in relation to 
loans 7 and 8. So, as the complaint hasnt been  resolved  informally,  it has been passed to 
me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our process.  If Mr P accepts my 
decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN48092772Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr P could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Trading guidance on Irresponsible Lending, and 
later the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC),  define sustainable  as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
There was a significant break in Mr Ps borrowing from Uncle Buck. There  was a break of 
around seven months between loans 3 and 4. I think it would have been reasonable for 
Uncle Buck  to have  seen  that gap as an indication that Mr Ps finances had moved on from 
whatever situation  had required  his previous  loans. And so I will consider  Mr Ps borrowing in 
those two distinct chains.
Ref: DRN48092773The first chain comprised  loans 1 to 3. Each  of these loans was small in comparison to the 
income Mr P declared to the lender. I havent seen anything to make me think Uncle  Buck 
should have been aware of any adverse information  on Mr Ps credit file. So given Mr Ps 
loan amounts, what was apparent about  his circumstances at the time, and his history with 
the lender, I dont  think it wouldve been  proportionate for Uncle  Buck to ask him for the 
amount of information  that would be needed  to suggest the lending was unsustainable. 
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr P provided or the information Uncle  Buck 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
he was saying.  So I dont  think Uncle Buck  was wrong to give these loans to Mr P.
The second  chain comprised five loans and the lending spanned just over seven months. At 
the start of this chain of borrowing the amounts  Mr P was asking to borrow  were again 
relatively modest. And so it was reasonable, based on the information  it was aware of, for 
Uncle Buck  to agree to lend to Mr P. 
But Mr P wasnt  able to repay  loan 4 on time  he needed to extend it by around  two months 
by paying some additional interest.  Mr P took his next loan, for a slightly  higher amount, on 
the same  day hed repaid loan 4. And he also needed to extend this loan by around two 
months by paying  some  additional interest. So I think by now Uncle Buck  should have seen 
that Mr Ps finances were  under  some pressure. I think it should reasonably have concluded  
that the disposable income of over £2,000  that Mr P was declaring was unlikely to be 
accurate.
So given that Mr P had twice struggled  to repay loans that were smaller  than he was 
requesting on loan 6, I think Uncle Buck should have realised that it was unlikely Mr Ps 
finances were such that he could repay  this borrowing  from his normal  income. And I think 
the same  applies to loan 7 although  it was for a smaller amount. I dont think Uncle Buck  
should have agreed to give these  loans to Mr P
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending  history with Mr P with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably  have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Uncle  Buck should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think  that this point  was reached at 
loan 8. I say this because:
For some time Mr P had been  provided  with a new loan within  days  of settling a 
previous one. So Uncle Buck ought to have realised it was more  likely than not Mr P 
was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving 
in his finances and that Mr Ps indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr P wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Uncle  Buck. Loan 8 was 
taken out more than seven  months  after this chain of lending had started. And it was 
for the largest amount  Mr P borrowed. Mr P had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to Uncle  Buck over an extended period.
Ref: DRN48092774I think that Mr P lost out because Uncle Buck continued to provide borrowing at loan 8 
because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Ps ability  to access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market for these  
high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loan 8 and Uncle Buck  should put things right.
putting things right
I dont think Uncle Buck should  have agreed to lend to Mr P after, and including, the loan 
that he took on 4 December  2014 (loan  6). So Uncle Buck should;
Refund all interest  and charges Mr P paid on loans 6 to 8. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ps credit  file in relation to 
loans 6 and 7.
I think any information recorded  about loan 8 is adverse. So all entries about loan 8 
should be removed  from Mr Ps credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ps complaint and direct  Uncle  Buck Finance LLP 
to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4809277