K822xcomplaint
Mrs M has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt return a payment a third party tried to 
make to her current account after it had been  closed.
background 
Mrs M had a current account with Monzo.  The account was closed by Monzo in November 
2018. In January 2019 Mrs M was due to receive  a payment from a third party  and it tried to 
transfer the money to the closed account.  Monzo didnt return the payment to the third party  
and Mrs M didnt get the money she was due to receive.
Mrs M complained to Monzo. It admitted it had made an error and hadnt  returned the money  
to the sender. It said the error had been resolved  and it offered Mrs M £150 to compensate  
her for the inconvenience shed been  caused.
Mrs M wasnt happy with Monzos  response. She still couldnt  obtain the money  from the 
third party and she referred her complaint to this service. In June 2019 Monzo transferred 
the money to an account held by Mrs M with another bank.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. They thought  the 
compensation payable to Mrs M should  be increased to £250.
Mrs M accepted our investigators  recommendation but Monzo didnt agree the 
compensation should be increased.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo has accepted  it made an error  and didnt return the payment to the third party  as 
soon as it should have done.  It says it returned  the money to the third party after Mrs M had 
complained. But the third party couldnt trace the payment  and Mrs M didnt get her money  
until June 2019.
Monzo has provided details of the action it took to help the third party locate the payment. I 
accept it tried to help the third party identify the return payment. But this wouldnt have been 
necessary if Monzo  had returned the payment when it was first received. Mrs M had to wait 
another three months  after she complained to Monzo before she got her money.
In all the circumstances Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for Mrs M to receive £250 
compensation for the trouble and upset  shes  suffered  as a result of Monzos  error.  I dont 
think Monzo has paid Mrs M the £150 its already offered her. But, if it has already been paid 
Monzo can deduct £150 from the £250  Ive awarded  and pay the balance  of £100.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Monzo Bank 
Ltd to pay Mrs M £250 less £150 if its already paid that amount to Mrs M.
Ref: DRN49803462Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4980346