K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T and Miss D have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) will 
not refund  any of the commission it received from the premiums they paid for payment 
protection insurance (PPI).  They took out a policy in or around June 2008  to cover a 
mortgage theyd  taken out in January 2005.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mr and Mrs T and Miss Ds complaint about  
commission. Thats because their complaint about the mis-sale of the policy has been 
brought to us too late. 
Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came  into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to 
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need  
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would  still need  to be covered by the Consumer  Credit  
Act on this date.
On 31st October  2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began   and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. It was possible for mortgages taken out 
before this date to become regulated, if a change was made to the mortgage   such as a 
further advance  or interest rate switch. Different  lenders took different  approaches to this. 
As Mr and Mrs T and Miss Ds mortgage was regulated from when it started  in January 
2005  it follows  that it became regulated before 6 April 2008. So it was no longer covered 
by the Consumer Credit  Act. This means  the FCAs rules and guidance dont apply. 
Therefore, Halifax doesnt need to refund any of the commission  Mr and Mrs T and Miss D 
paid for the PPI they had with their mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T and 
Miss D to accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2019.
Ref: DRN46615892Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4661589