K821x#15complaint
Through his son, Mr B complains that Aviva  Insurance Limited  mishandled his claim on a 
home emergency policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision in September 2019  and set out the background of the 
complaint as:-
Mr B had an insurance policy to cover his plumbing and drainage and water  supply pipe. 
The policy was branded in the name  of a home  assistance company. But Aviva  was the 
insurer responsible  for dealing  with claims.  Where  I refer to Aviva  I include the home 
assistance company  and its engineers  for whose actions I hold Aviva responsible.
Mr B called Aviva for help with tracing and repairing a leak from a hidden  water pipe. After 
several visits by engineers, Aviva said that the pipe wasnt covered by the policy.  Mr B 
complained that Aviva  should fix it and was unhappy that there  had been  several  visits from 
different engineers.
Aviva acknowledged  some service failings  and offered Mr B £100.00 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused by several  engineers  visiting but said that a general exclusion applied  
so they were unable  to cover the repair.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
Aviva acted unfairly in declining  the claim. She thought Aviva had accepted that its customer 
service couldve been better and its offer of £100.00 was fair and reasonable.
In her first opinion, the investigator explained  Aviva had acted in line with two policy 
exclusions  one for swimming pools and any associated pipes, and one for systems or 
equipment that had not been installed  according  to British Standards and/or manufacturers 
instructions.
In her second opinion, the investigator  said her view remained the same after Aviva had 
provided further information about  how the pipe isnt fitted in accordance with British 
Standards and the manufacturers guidelines.
Mr B has asked  that an ombudsman decide his case. 
Since our investigator issued her view Mr Bs son has provided  further  evidence  to illustrate 
the layout of the pipework and the facilities it feeds. And has advised the pipework was 
already fitted when  his father  bought the property in the early 1990s.  Aviva had previously 
told him it was necessary  for the water board to sign off the installation.  But hes provided 
information from his water supplier to show that it isnt necessary to notify the water supply 
company before extending the pipework,  as had been done  by the previous home  owner. 
His water  supplier also provided a copy of a leaflet from the Water Regulations Advisory 
Scheme about  the Water  Supply (Water Fittings) Regulations 1999  (Water  Regulations 
1999) to support this. So he felt the pipework had been installed in accordance with the 
relevant standards. 
Ref: DRN40684602The evidence Mr B provided was shared with Aviva  and theyve accepted that the leaking 
pipe does not supply a swimming pool. But they remain  of the opinion that it hasnt been 
installed correctly so cover is excluded. They say the pipe should have been  ducted when it 
runs under a property  to allow for access  to comply with the Water Regulations 1999. 
Aviva were  also asked for any submissions  they wished to make in relation to Mr Bs 
comments that the pipework was installed  prior to the Water Regulations  1999.  And they had 
no further comments. 
And I set out my reasoning as follows:-
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached a different 
outcome to that of our investigator.
My determination of this complaint is made in line with the regulators Dispute Resolution  
Rules (DISP). These rules say I must make my decision by reference to what  I consider to 
be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case.  DISP 3.6.4R says I need to take 
into account relevant:
law and regulations;
regulators rules  guidance and standards;
codes of practice;  and
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
The policy covered repair of a leak from either of two types of water  pipe. One was the water 
supply pipe (that is the pipe from the water main to the stop-cock). The other  type was any 
other water plumbing pipe.
The terms of the policy say that it doesnt  cover:
systems  or equipment  that have not been installed according to British Standards and/or 
manufacturers instructions.
Mr Bs son says that a water supply company advised Mr B there was possibly a water leak 
at his property. He contacted Aviva and between  14 and 23 November there were four 
separate visits to the property by two water supply engineers and two plumbers. A particular 
pipe was identified  as being  the possible cause but was said to have been poorly installed. 
This was on the basis that the pipe had not come  directly from the water supply pipe and 
had not been ducted. In simple terms ducted meant the pipe had not been fitted through a 
conduit to allow easy access in the event  something  went wrong, such  as a leak.
From the notes and photographs provided its apparent  that a pipe has been connected to 
an outside tap on the wall of the main house  and it goes down into the ground and then 
underground to the outbuildings.
The burden is on Aviva to show that the exclusion it has relied  on applies in the 
circumstances. So, this means Aviva needs to show the pipe had not been  installed  
according to British Standards and/or the manufacturers instructions. 
Ref: DRN40684603I accept Mr Bs evidence that the pipework was installed prior to him purchasing  the property 
in the early 1990s. So it wouldnt  be enough  for Aviva to show  a breach of requirements 
such as the Water Regulations 1999. This is because the regulations came into force  after 
Mr B purchased the property and do not apply retrospectively.
Aviva hasnt given sufficient information  about  the relevant  British  Standards  or 
manufacturers instructions applicable  at the time the pipe was installed.  And Aviva  hasnt 
provided evidence  to show the pipe wasnt lawfully installed under any previous British 
Standards which applied at the time.  So Im not persuaded Aviva has demonstrated on the 
balance of probabilities that the exclusion applies in this case.  I find it fair and reasonable to 
require Aviva to meet  Mr Bs claim.
Aviva has sent Mr B a cheque for £100.00 for the inconvenience caused  by the 4 separate  
visits to his house. I find that fair and reasonable for the inconvenience  and distress  caused 
by the number of visits insofar as they were not all necessary.
I invited both parties to let me have their further  comments
replies to the provisional decision
Neither party had any further comments.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and without further 
information to consider,  I see no reason  to reach  a different outcome to that in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Aviva Insurance Limited to deal with Mr Bs claim by
completing the necessary repairs subject to any excess and/or policy  limit.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019. 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4068460