K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about changes made by Scottish Widows to the way his pension  was 
invested resulting  in the performance  of his fund being below  his expectations.
background
Mr A took out a pension policy in April 2006  and his final contribution was made in June 
2012. His nominated  retirement date (NRD) is 15 April 2019.
In 2017, Scottish  Widows had made a commercial decision to change  the targeting of 
pension investments away from annuities to flexible  access. Mr A received correspondence  
confirming the changes which would be taking place, and what he needed  to do if he wanted 
to opt out.  
In 2018, Mr A complained to Scottish Widows after receiving his annual statement and 
learning that his pension  fund had underperformed  since the changes had been  made.  He 
felt it was unreasonable that even though his pension had poorly performed, it was still 
charging him an annual  fee and had given him bad advice. Scottish  Widows  said that it 
hadnt given him any advice,  and he had the opportunity  to opt out of the changes. 
Furthermore, the performance  of his fund was down to uncertainty  in the markets.  
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and considered  it should not be upheld. 
He did not believe  Scottish Widows had given Mr A any advice, and also noted the fact that 
the correspondence issued to Mr A clearly stated that he should seek financial advice if he is 
unsure about  the changes to be made, and offered the option for him to opt out.
In addition, he found no evidence to suggest that Scottish Widows  charges were 
performance related.  Having considered  the terms and conditions  Mr A had agreed to when 
taking out his pension with Scottish  Widows, he found that it had charged its annual  fees in 
line with what had been agreed.  
Mr A didnt agree. Amongst a number of points  he still believed that Scottish Widows had 
given him bad advice.  He felt that in light of this the very least  which it could do was refund 
him a years  annual fees. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im in agreement with our 
adjudicators view and for broadly the same reasons. Please allow me to explain why.
The crux of Mr As complaint centres  around two issues that he feels  Scottish  Widows gave 
him advice  to change  his investment and that this advice put him in a worse position than 
remaining in his existing  investment. He feels this change resulted  in lower than expected 
performance and objects to being  charged a management fee.
Scottish Widows  have  a responsibility  to make customers aware  of any changes  they feel 
would be beneficial in a changing  financial climate. The Pension  Freedoms  Act, 2015  
fundamentally changed the pensions landscape  and as a result, Scottish Widows took a 
commercial decision to change the way they targeted pension  investments from an annuity-
based approach  to one of flexible access.
Ref: DRN46966952Firstly, Ive considered the letter sent to Mr A and it clearly states this is a proposed change. 
It read:
We are changing the terms  and conditions of your plan.  The change  affects your plans  
investments. Your plan investments are currently targeting an annuity.  We are changing the 
plan investments to target flexible access.
If you do not want the changes to be made  you must  contact us by x date. To do this you 
can email us at mailbox.donotproceed@scottishwidows.co.yk or call us on 0345 7556557.
It goes on to say:
.if you need help with your decision please  contact your financial advisor.  If you 
dont have one you can find one at www.unbiased.co.uk......
The letter clearly details  a proposed  change  and explains why Scottish Widows are 
proposing the change  to Mr As plan. Importantly,  it also offered Mr A the option to opt out 
and directed him to seek financial advice if he was unsure of what  to do. 
Mr A couldve taken  financial advice  or opted out of the changes but he didnt choose  to 
exercise either of these  options, that isnt something I can hold Scottish  Widows responsible 
for. A proposal to change  an investment approach also doesnt constitute  financial advice 
and so I cant fairly say Scottish Widows have advised him in any capacity either. 
I appreciate Mr A must  have been  disappointed when he received  his annual statement in 
2018 and found his investment hadnt performed as he would have expected. Investments  
by their nature fluctuate in value. When Mr A contacted Scottish Widows after he received 
his April 2018 statement  the value was £307.21  lower than his April 2017  statement. But 
when Mr A requested  a transfer value in May 2018 the value had increased with a value 
exceeding both statements.
Ive looked at the investments Mr A originally held. His employers plan had a lifestyle  option 
and the proposed change  retained that option. The underlying investments were still aligned  
to Mr As attitude to risk and Mr A could  have sought  financial advice if he was unsure of 
how the proposed  changed would affect  him or simply instructed Scottish  Widows  not to 
make any changes to his plan. As I said earlier Scottish Widows have a duty to review  their 
investment strategy  and make changes where they feel it is in the best interest of their 
consumers. They wrote explaining the proposed changes, offered the option  to decline and 
suggested financial advice where  there was uncertainty. Im persuaded these were fair and 
reasonable actions and so I dont think Scottish Widows have done  anything wrong.
Ive considered Mr As point about the deduction  of charges. Ive looked  at the terms and 
conditions of the plan, which Mr A agreed to when  he took out the plan. The annual  charges 
are not dependent on fund performance and Im persuaded Mr A has held the plan for a 
sufficient amount of time to be aware of the charges  from his annual statements. I cant  see 
that Scottish  Widows have acted outside  of the terms and conditions and so Im not 
persuaded they have done anything wrong here either and so I cant  ask them  to refund  
Mr A the annual management  fees.
Ref: DRN46966953my final decision
I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed but for the reasons I have given I dont uphold  this 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 February  2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4696695