K821x#15complaint
Mr C is represented by his solicitors. His solicitors say an Appointed Representative (AR) of 
Pi Financial Ltd (PFL) gave him unsuitable  advice to transfer funds liquidated  from his four 
personal pensions  (PP) arrangements  (around  £210,000 in total) into a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) in August 2011,  which was then used  between  September  and 
December 2011   to make  unsuitable underlying investments, especially an investment of 
£12,000 in an unregulated  overseas Ethical  Forestry  fund (the EF fund).
background
Based on fact find, financial  planning  and risk profile assessment documentation signed  by 
Mr C in 2011, his overall  profile was mainly as follows:
He was in his mid-50s and in good  health, he was married with non-dependent  
children and he intended to retire at age 60.
The risk profile assessment document features a section in which he gave responses 
to a number of profiling questions and then a section on the advisers  analysis. In the 
former, Mr C concluded the section  by describing himself as A moderate risk taker, 
but the document applied  the risk level of Profile  8  High Risk to him. The latter 
section then provides  the analysis for this profile. 
He was an employed company director earning  a basic annual  salary of £50,000 
(which also appears  to have been  the total household income),  he had no additional  
income/source of income and he had a 40% shareholding in the company he worked  
for. He had a monthly expenditure of £900.
His assets were  £1,000,000 value of his 40% shareholding  in the company he 
worked for; £320,000 value of his residential home (with  an outstanding mortgage  of 
£51,970); £25,000 in shares held in an Individual Savings Account (ISA); £168,397 
current value (between March  and June 2011) of his PP funds; and deferred 
superannuation benefits of £1,400 per year. He had no loans or credit debts.
His PP funds were  a Scottish Widows PP effective from 1990;  an AXA Group  
Money Purchase effective from 1994; a Scottish Widows Group Pensionholder 
effective from 2000;  and an Aviva PP effective from 2002. 
His objective and priority  in terms of his engagement with the AR  was pension  
planning. A handwritten note in the document says he planned  to sell company to 
fund  his retirement, that he was disappointed with existing policies, that he and 
the adviser discussed alternatives including  portfolio to match  ATR and that he  
decided that he would  like an alternative  approach and therefore discussed 
structured products and self investment .
The AR engaged with Mr C between March  and June 2011,  during which  the 
aforementioned fact-finding and assessments were done, it then issued suitability reports in 
August, September and October 2011  which reflected the fact-findings  and assessments  
including reference  to flexibility, fund choices, improved fund management and performance,  
and consolidation  of pension arrangements as Mr Cs other objectives. The August report 
also did, mainly, the following:
It referred to his risk profile as Moderately Adventurous.
It summarised the fund contents  of his existing  PPs  both Scottish  Widows  policies 
were invested  in the Unitised With Profit fund 100% ; the Aviva  PP was  
invested in the Balanced Managed Fund  100%;  and the AXA policy was  invested 
in the With Profits Fund 100%.
Ref: DRN43581512It presented the ARs recommendations to switch from the PPs to the SIPP (with loss 
of guaranteed bonus in at least  one of the Scottish Widows policies), with reasons 
and associated information.
The September and October  reports mainly recommended the underlying  investments for 
the SIPP. An account statement for the SIPP from 2012 provides the following main 
information on the investments that were  made  within it:
£210,585.70  was invested  in the SIPP in August 2011.
Investments in funds  began the following month (September) with the £12,000 
invested in the EF fund, which  was described  as high risk in the suitability  letter 
issued to Mr C in the same month (and in the funds factsheet).
Thereafter, between October and December 2011, the remainder of the investments 
within the SIPP were  made in funds which were, overall, of a higher/high risk profile  
as described, broadly,  in the suitability  letter(s).
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should be upheld.  
He made  the following main points:
The ARs risk profile assessment of Mr C is questionable, given that he had a lack of 
investment experience,  did not have capacity  for high risk losses  and his previous 
PPs were mainly invested in balanced  managed funds which  are generally regarded 
as appropriate  for more  cautious investors.
Recommendation, of the EF fund and the other higher risk funds in the SIPP, to Mr C 
was unsuitable  as they were too risky for him and he lacked the capacity  for losses  
from such investments.
The regulator issued  a pension switching related report  in 2008  which  highlighted the 
need for firms to avoid  recommending  such switches where there  was no good  
reason and/or no need to switch; where  associated costs did not justify  the pursuit of 
consolidation; where there was no evidence that better performance  would  be likely; 
and where the switch  did not match the individuals risk profile.  The ARs 
recommendations do not appear  to have  avoided these pitfalls  and Mr Cs 
objective(s) at the time could have been addressed without need for the switch, the 
SIPP and the high-risk investments.
Mr C should receive  redress for the ARs unsuitable advice and £250 for the trouble 
and upset the matter  has caused  him.
PFL disagreed with this outcome and, in the main,  it argued that the investigator had 
misguided himself in terms of Mr Cs financial circumstances in 2011  and his investment 
experience. It said his capacity for loss and arrangements  for retirement  were  not limited  to 
the PPs as the investigator said they were, instead  both extended to his shareholding in the 
company he worked  for, as his plan was to sell that shareholding (valued at the time at 
around £1,000,000 and which  he sold in 2016), so he had a far greater capacity for loss than 
the investigator portrayed. It said Mr C was an experienced investor who had previously self-
managed a shares portfolio, that his retirement  plan was based more on the intention to sell 
his share  of the business he worked  for and less on the PPs,  that he was very well informed 
in proceeding  with the switch and underlying  investments,  that the Moderately Adventurous 
risk profile assessed for him was accurate and that the EF fund accounted for less than 
0.4% of his assets  so it is an insufficient  basis to uphold  the complaint and it is this fund that 
Mr C has only (or mainly)  complained about.
Ref: DRN43581513The investigator was not persuaded to change his view. He maintained  that it was 
reasonable to consider Mr Cs pensions capacity by his pension  arrangements, not his wider  
assets, and that any investment experience he had at the time was not the same as 
experience in assessing the suitability of pension  arrangements recommended to him. He 
also remained unconvinced that Mr Cs risk profile  assessment was accurate.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have reached the same  
conclusion as the investigators, for broadly similar reasons to those he gave. 
For the sake of clarity, I have addressed  the complaint as one about  suitability of the 
recommended switch, the SIPP  and the SIPPs underlying investments. I am satisfied that 
this is what Mr C has complained about in the submissions made to this service.  
Furthermore, even if this was not the case and even if suitability of the SIPPs  investment(s)  
was the only matter complained of, I would consider it within  this services inquisitorial remit 
to address suitability  of the recommended switch and the SIPP.
Regulatory Context
The regulators Principles for Businesses are relevant to this complaint and they applied at 
the time of advice  to Mr C. Principle 2 requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, 
care and diligence;  Principle 3 requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management  systems;  and 
Principle 6 requires  a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them  
fairly.
The regulators Conduct of Business  (COBS) rules  are also relevant  to this complaint and 
they too applied at the time of advice to Mr C. COBS 2.1.1R requires a firm to act honestly,  
fairly and professionally  in accordance with the best interests of its clients and in relation to 
designated investment business carried on for a retail client;  and COBS 9.2.1R sets out a 
firms obligation to assess the suitability of investments  recommended  to its clients. 
In 2009 the regulator  published a checklist for pension switching which  highlighted four 
issues a firm was expected to address in the course of advising on such  a switch:
-Charges - has the consumer been  switched  to a pension that is more expensive  than 
their existing  one(s) or a stakeholder  pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include  the loss of ongoing  contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits  early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews, but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Thereafter and in 2013, around two years after Mr Cs switch to the SIPP and investments 
within the SIPP, the regulator issued  a pensions related industry  alert to firms which  I have 
Ref: DRN43581514also considered.  I acknowledge that this alert post-dates the complaint events in his case but 
the alert created nothing new, it simply applied the pre-existing Principles, rules and 
regulatory obligations upon  firms to matters  brought to its attention at the time about  how 
retail clients  were being advised  on pension switches and transfers. 
The alert began with this statement  It has been brought to the FSAs attention  that some 
financial advisers are giving advice to customers  on pension transfers  or pension switches 
without assessing  the advantages or disadvantages  of investments proposed to be held 
within the new pension . It then continued  to say  The FSAs view is that the provision of 
suitable advice  generally requires consideration of the other investments held by the 
customer or, when advice is given on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other  
products (such as SIPPs and other  wrappers),  consideration  of the suitability of the overall  
proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated 
schemes. It should be particularly clear  to financial advisers that, where  a customer seeks  
advice on a pension  transfer in implementing  a wider investment  strategy,  the advice on the 
pension transfer  must  take account  of the overall investment strategy the customer  is 
contemplating.; and  if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable  
investment in unregulated items  you cannot  separate out the unregulated  elements from the 
regulated elements. [my emphasis]
 
Did the AR meet its regulatory obligations in assessing  suitability  of Mr Cs pension 
switch, the SIPP and the underlying investments?
In order for the AR to have conducted itself with due skill care and diligence, to have 
carefully and reasonably  organised and controlled its advisory service to Mr C and to have 
upheld his best interests, it essentially  had to discharge its advisory  service  to him in the 
overall manner set out above. Overall and on balance, I am not satisfied that it did.
The entire [advised] venture into the SIPP and into the underlying  investments that were 
made within it appears to have arisen  from the retirement planning context illustrated by 
available documentary evidence  (which  I have referred to above) and from reference  within  
those documents  to Mr C not being  satisfied  with the performance  of the four PPs he had. In 
this context, I am not persuaded by PFLs argument that the PPs were irrelevant  or not as 
relevant as the investigator considered  to Mr Cs retirement planning. 
If, as PFL argues,  Mr Cs stake in the business  he worked for was his only or main  
retirement plan then what he sought from the AR would  have  been  general investment 
planning  because assets  other than that stake  were the subjects of advice. The relevant 
financial planning document  included  a list of different objectives, from which  the only 
objective selected as a priority for Mr C was Pension Planning. The list included Lump 
Sum Investments,  which was not selected as a priority for him. 
The switch  away from the PPs to the SIPP (and then the SIPPs  underlying investments) 
was what happened  as a result of the planning exercise conducted by the AR. The switch  
(and subsequent related actions)  was the retirement  planning exercise itself, so it defies 
logic to say the PPs,  from which the switch happened,  had nothing  (or little) to do with Mr Cs 
retirement plans.
I do not dismiss the notion that Mr C also hoped to derive some future retirement  financial 
support from his stake in the business   the handwritten notes I mentioned above suggest 
this was the case  but that would  not automatically  mean his stake in the business was the 
totality of his retirement planning as PFL has argued.  The aforementioned  evidence shows 
Ref: DRN43581515that it was not, that the opposite was the case,  that the four PPs were dedicated towards the 
purpose of his retirement planning and that they were the focal  point of that planning. This 
finding helps in considering the suitability of the switch and of the underlying investments 
recommended for the SIPP. It means  the switch should be viewed firmly  in the context of 
pension planning   as the investigator did  and not in the context  of general investment 
planning as PFL appears to have invited us to do. In doing so, I apply the regulators 2009 
checklist as follows:
It is not clear that the AR established,  in terms of charges, Mr C was better off with 
the SIPP than with the PPs. The set-up  and initial charges (and initial commission) 
associated with setting  up the SIPP existed only because of the switch,  so in this 
respect they were  avoidable, but for the switch. The PPs had annual  management 
charges that ranged from 0.45% to 0.87% to 1% - none of which  strike me as outliers 
in the market/sector  at the time. Individual fund charges  applied  for the funds to be 
invested in the SIPP and I do not consider that a clear  enough  comparison and/or 
case was presented to Mr C showing that he would be in a better position in terms of 
fund management  fees than he was with the PPs.  Overall, I am not persuaded that 
there was a case to justify  the switch based on fees/charges/commission.
As stated above, the switch carried the negative aspect of losing guaranteed  bonus 
benefits that Mr C had in at least  one of the PPs, so this aspect did not lend support 
to the switch.
I address the matters  of risk and fund management below.
Overall, there appear to have been at least two important factors   charges and the loss of 
benefits  that did not lend support to the switch. I do not accept that a desire for better 
management and/or performance could have justified the switch  at any costs, as no 
improved management  and/or performance guarantees were given as part of the switch  (or 
as part of the SIPPs underlying investments) and given that no such  guarantees existed  
with the notion of having more investment control within the SIPP. I can understand if 
consolidation of his pensions might have been  a preference  in principle  for Mr C, but I 
have not seen evidence that suggests it was needed. As stated above, the PPs were  already 
under management so he did not need  consolidation  for that purpose, and I am not 
persuaded that there was necessity for consolidation arising from the charges he incurred in 
the PPs. A similar analysis applies to flexibility, whilst greater flexibility might  have been a 
preference I have not seen evidence of specific serious inflexibility problems with any of the 
PPs which  meant Mr C needed to consider a switch  in order  to achieve  flexibility elsewhere.
The AR was the expert in the relationship.  I agree  that a clients  instructions, desires and 
preferences carry weight  in the course of investment and/or pensions advice. However, it 
remains the firms regulatory responsibility  to advice  on what  is or is not suitable for the 
client. If Mr C had the preferences that the AR considered  (and, now, PFL considers) 
encouraged the switch,  the need remained  for advice to be given to him on whether (or not) 
the switch was suitable for him despite  such preferences  or, put another way, whether (or 
not) such  preferences justified an unsuitable  or potentially unsuitable switch. On balance, 
and for the reasons given  above, I am not persuaded that the switch  was suitable or that the 
preferences that have been  mentioned justified an unsuitable switch.
With regards to the underlying investments in the SIPP,  it does not appear to be in dispute  
that they were, overall, mainly high-risk investments. PFL relies upon the Moderately 
Adventurous risk profile given to Mr C in 2011 and, for that reason, it says the investments 
matched his risk profile. On balance,  I disagree.
Ref: DRN43581516The risk profile assessment document shows a conflict that cannot reasonably be ignored. In 
it, Mr C described  himself  as A moderate risk taker, yet the document  applied Profile 8  
High Risk  to him  and then the suitability  letters described him as moderately adventurous. 
PFL has highlighted  some  of the individual answers  he gave in the risk profile  questionnaire,  
which it says shows he was a high-risk taker,  but the fact remains  that he did not describe 
himself as such. He described himself as a moderate risk taker and the profile of 
Moderately Adventurous  appears to have  been  an attempt in retrospect to reconcile Mr Cs 
self-description with the profile  score applied to him. 
I am not persuaded that Mr C was anything more than a moderate (or balanced) risk taker 
with regards to his pension arrangements. His previous PPs funds appear  to have held, 
broadly, balanced risk profiles. He appears to have  wanted  better  performance from them 
and he might also have  held the view that undertaking a little more  risk might be necessary 
in order to achieve that, but it is reasonably clear that he did not consider  himself a high-risk  
taker for such a purpose. A number of the underlying funds in the SIPP  were  described as 
aggressive. I do not consider that Mr C matched such a description.
Mr Cs overall  wealth  was mainly in his stake  in the business he worked for and then in his 
pension arrangements. The value of equity  in his residential home  did not count as a liquid 
asset. He had a relatively modest ISA, a deferred (and relatively modest) superannuation 
benefits and then his annual earnings. I have addressed above why the stake in his 
business was not as relevant as PFL argues. That too does not appear to have been a liquid 
asset at the time and it was not an asset  that was dedicated to Mr Cs retirement plans. With 
regards to his PPs (and the values within them)  I do not consider  that they, alone, held 
capacity for losses in high risk investments. 
Indeed, it is reasonable to conclude that in the context of providing  financial security for his 
retirement he could not afford to lose and would  not have wanted to lose any value in the 
PPs. More capacity for loss might have existed if he had other  (and substantial) invested  
liquid assets,  but he did not, and I dont consider the ISA sufficient in this respect.  If his 
pension arrangements incurred a significant  loss  as would arguably have been more likely  
with high risk underlying  investments than with less risky investments  I am not persuaded 
that he would have been in a position  to draw upon  other assets to recover  from that.
Conclusion
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I conclude  that the pension  switch, the 
SIPP and the SIPPs underlying investments were  unsuitable  for Mr C.
Fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr C as close as possible to the position he would now be in if he had been 
given suitable  advice. On balance, I consider that he would have behaved differently. It is not 
possible to say precisely what he would have done,  but I am satisfied that what  I have  set 
out below  is fair and reasonable  given his circumstances at the time of advice.  Mr C is 
ordered to engage meaningfully and co-operatively with PFL to provide  it with all information 
and documentation  reasonably required for its calculation of redress.
What must PFL do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, PFL must do the following:
Ref: DRN43581517Compare the performance  of Mr Cs SIPP with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value the difference  must be paid 
to him in compensation. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Pay any interest set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If 
PFL is required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to deduct income tax from the 
interest, it must tell Mr C the deduction  amount and give him a tax deduction  
certificate if he asks for one, for him to reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Pay the compensation into Mr Cs pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest.  The payment should allow  for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  The compensation should  not be 
paid into his pension  plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or 
allowance. If the compensation (and interest) cannot be paid into his pension plan, 
pay it directly to him. Had it been possible to pay it into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income,  so the compensation should  be reduced to notionally  
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been  paid. The notional  
allowance should be calculated using his actual or expected marginal rate of tax at 
his selected retirement age. For example, if he is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  
at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic  rate of 
tax. If he would  have  been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should 
be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay Mr C £250 for the trouble and upset  caused  to him. I agree with the 
investigators proposal (and reasons) in this respect.
If theres a problem closing the SIPP, as can happen, it will be necessary for 
PFL to cover five years of the SIPPs fees, dependent on whether (or not) Mr 
C chooses to keep it operating. 
Provide the calculation of the compensation to Mr C in a clear and simple format.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to     
(end date)additional 
interest
Mr Cs
DP Pensions  
Ltd SIPPstill exists 
(based on 
the last 
update 
from Mr 
Cs 
solicitors)FTSE UK
Private  
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index 
(prior to 1 
March  2017, 
the FTSE 
WMA Stock 
Market 
Income Total 
Return 
Index)date of 
switch to 
the SIPPdate of 
settlement if the 
SIPP still 
exists; if 
the SIPP  
has been 
surrendered, then 
date of 
surrendernot applicable if 
the SIPP still 
exists; if the 
SIPP has been 
surrendered, then 8% simple 
per year from 
the date of 
surrender to 
the date of 
settlement 
Ref: DRN43581518actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment (or any part(s)  of it) is illiquid  the actual value of the investment (or its 
illiquid part(s)) should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr C agrees to PFL taking 
ownership of the investment (or its illiquid part(s)), if it wishes  to. If that is not possible then 
PFL may request an undertaking from Mr C  to be drawn up at PFLs expense  that he 
repays to PFL any amount he may receive  from the investment (or its illiquid part(s)) in 
future. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted  from the 
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the calculation  
from that point on. If there are a large  number of regular payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, I will accept if PFL totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end 
instead of deducting  periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Mr C appears  to have had a balanced investor profile  based on the evidence  
addressed above  so he would have been prepared  to take some risk in order to 
achieve a higher  return.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a 
range of indices  with different asset  classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. It is a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take 
some risk to get a higher  return.
I consider that Mr Cs profile is broadly reflected  in this benchmark and that 
compensation based upon it would reasonably reflect the sort of return he could have 
obtained, but for the unsuitable advice he received, from suitable investments.
compensation limit
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred  and when  the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds  the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance.  Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely  that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such  balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting  independent  legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept  the decision. 
Ref: DRN43581519my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint. I order Pi Financial Ltd to 
compensate him as set out above  and to provide him with the calculation  of compensation in 
a clear and simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2021.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4358151