K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt refunded a payment she made.  
background
Miss M says she spotted any advert online for a photo shoot with the potential to be signed 
up to a modelling agency. She completed  the application for her son, who was eight years  
old at the time. She says the company got in touch  with her soon after and she agreed to 
pay a £50 deposit on her credit card in order to attend the shoot. She says this deposit was 
refundable. 
Miss M says the company  said it would  sign her son up for a modelling contract with an 
agency but shed need to pay £800  for a 12 month gold membership. She says she was 
told this fee would cover hosting, photo  advertising  and guarantee modelling  jobs,  among 
other benefits. She paid for this membership using her Santander debit card.  
She says the company told her to expect a call within a week in order  to get her son signed 
up for work. When she didnt hear anything back she says she tried to get in contact  with the 
company without success.  She said she carried out some research and realised she had 
been the victim of a scam. She says she reported  her concerns to Santander, Action Fraud, 
Trading Standards and the Citizens Advice  Bureau.  
Santander said it would attempt a chargeback in order to try and get Miss Ms money back. It 
asked her to give them  details of what she was promised and copies of any documentation 
she was given. Miss M provided  detailed recollections of what  she described as a scam as 
well some documentation shed received  regarding  the modelling agency her son had been 
signed up to. 
The chargeback was defended by the company who provided  a copy of the signed contract. 
The contract only mentioned a CD-ROM  being  sold with several  photos  on them. Miss M 
had signed this contract to say she had received the images and the disc was working 
correctly. Santander  says it also went to pre-arbitration  through the Visa chargeback  scheme 
but this too was defended by the company. It once again provided a copy  of the contract 
which it said demonstrated Miss M had received what was promised. 
For this reason Santander wrote to Miss M to explain the chargeback  attempt had failed. It 
said it was unable to pursue the chargeback any further due to the defence presented by the 
company.
I sent Miss M and Santander my provisional decision on 9 July 2020.  I explained  why 
I thought the complaint should  be upheld. An extract of my provisional decision is below:
Miss M contacted Santander around  a week after she had paid the company £800. She told 
Santander that she was concerned shed been the victim of a scam  and wanted help getting 
her money back. As she paid for the goods  and services using her debit card and wanted a 
refund, Ive thought about whether Santander dealt with her request fairly. 
The chargeback process  is relevant in this case.  This is a way in which  payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants.  They  are dealt with under the 
relevant card scheme  rules, in this case thats  Visa. In certain circumstances the process  
provides a way for Santander to ask for a payment Miss M made  to be refunded. Those 
Ref: DRN44234102circumstances include where  goods or services arent supplied  or as described by the 
company Miss M paid. 
As Santander has pointed out, a chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund. The company 
Miss M paid can put forward  a defence  to any chargeback claim. If a chargeback is 
defended, Santander can make a second  presentment for the chargeback, which  it has done 
here (pre-arbitration). If the chargeback is defended for a second time, (as happened  here)  
Santander can ask Visa to intervene  and decide  the outcome of the payment dispute. This 
final part is called arbitration. 
There is no obligation for Santander to raise a chargeback  in the first instance  if a consumer 
asks for one. But I would  consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted  where 
the right exists and there is some prospect of success. As Santander  did attempt the 
chargeback initially  and made a second  presentment through  pre-arbitration  it seems likely it 
thought there was a reasonable prospect of success. For this reason, I think  it dealt with 
Miss Ms claim fairly up to that point. The issue for me to decide is whether it acted fairly in 
choosing not to take the dispute  to arbitration. 
Just like with the initial  chargeback, there is no obligation on Santander to pursue arbitration  
through the chargeback process. But if the defence from the company was particularly  weak  
and/or Miss Ms evidence  was strong and there  was a reasonable prospect of success, I 
would consider it good practice to pursue the chargeback further.  
Ive noted that the company presented  an identical defence to the initial chargeback  and the 
second presentment/pre-arbitration.  So I asked  Santander  about this. In response,  
Santander said the evidence the company  provided  was strong enough  to outweigh what 
Miss M had provided. It said the only thing agreed  within the contract appeared to be the 
CD-ROM and it wasnt evident  that there was another  part of the contract that wasnt fulfilled. 
But nothing had changed  from the initial defence the company provided.  For this reason, 
I dont think Santanders  decision not to pursue the chargeback further  was fair or 
reasonable, particularly as it seems it initially thought the defence wasnt robust  enough and 
so merited second  presentment. But moreover, because I think Miss M had provided  strong  
evidence to indicate she hadnt got what she was promised. 
For example, Miss M had provided separate paperwork signing her son up for a modelling  
agency. This set out how much commission the modelling agency would take for each 
modelling job. The documentation was headed with her sons details and signed by Miss M. 
This documentation strongly supports  what she said she was promised as part of the overall  
contract.
Miss M also provided copies of the initial messages she received  from the company 
following her application in response to the advert.  These messages say Congratulation 
(sic) your childs modelling application  has been  shortlisted and book an initial test shoot to 
help get into modelling work. She also provided a booking  confirmation which  was 
described as a model assessment day. So I think the whole service and package was sold 
and presented in a way which highlighted modelling  as the main  part of the package, not 
photos on a CD-ROM. 
How Miss M described what happened on the day has been detailed  and consistent 
throughout her dealings  with Santander and our service. Her actions  and what  she says she 
was told appear to be supported by the written evidence that is available  such  as the text 
messages and booking confirmation.
Ref: DRN44234103Although the company defended the chargeback by providing a signed contract to say 
photos had been provided on a CD-ROM, I think based on the detailed  account Miss M 
gave, as well as the other supporting documentation which I believe strongly  supported her 
version of events, Santander  ought to have  robustly pursued the chargeback  further through 
to arbitration.  
Ive also considered that Santander appears to accept it was aware, via sources such  as 
Action Fraud, that these types of arrangements were likely to be a scam.  So I think  this 
ought to have flagged a potential concern  with the companys defence of the chargeback.  
Particularly because  it hadnt  provided  anything to demonstrate that it had provided the 
modelling services as promised. And I think Miss M had adequately demonstrated  this 
formed part (if not the majority)  of the contract she had agreed  to. 
Given the strong evidence  Miss M had been able to provide  in support of her claim including  
that shed been the victim  of a scam,  I dont  think Santander  acted  fairly  in not pursuing the 
chargeback to arbitration. Not only that, but because there was a suggestion of Miss M being 
a victim of a scam, raising the chargeback further to arbitration  could  have potentially  alerted 
the card scheme  to a more widespread issue.
Its no longer possible  for Santander to submit the chargeback for arbitration because of the 
time thats  passed.  While  I cant be certain what would have happened  had it been 
attempted, based  on everything Ive seen,  I think its more  likely than not Miss M would have 
received her money  back. 
Miss M has lost the opportunity of having  her money  refunded. And as Ive said above I think  
she stood a more  than reasonable chance  of getting her money back through  arbitration. So 
for these  reasons  I think  Santander ought  to refund her the £800 she paid. It should also pay 
8% simple  interest on that refund from the day it stopped pursuing the chargeback  claim to 
the date of settlement. This is because Miss M has been deprived of the use of those 
monies at an earlier  stage. 
Miss M accepted my provisional  decision but Santander didnt. Santander said it was of the 
opinion the correct process was followed by not continuing with the chargeback.  It said this 
was because Miss M was provided with all the services listed on the copy of the contract 
supplied by the merchant. Santander said too much onus had been placed on Miss Ms 
testimony of what happened rather than the factual evidence of the signed  contract.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion I reached  in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
Santander says everything on the written contract  was provided and it didnt mention any 
modelling work. However, as I set out in my provisional decision, Miss M had provided 
compelling evidence  that she was most likely told her son would be guaranteed  modelling 
work and it was on this basis she agreed  to enter into the contract. This wasnt  just solely  
Miss Ms testimony  as Santander describes. Miss M was also able to provide 
contemporaneous documentation which described a modelling agency  agreement as well as 
emails and texts which described  the contract to be about modelling. 
Ref: DRN44234104Santander told us that it is aware that these  types  of arrangements can potentially be scams. 
On that basis I think its conclusion about the merchants defence wasnt reasonable, 
particularly because of the compelling  evidence provided by Miss M. But in addition  to this, 
Miss M had provided a detailed account of what shed  been promised and what wasnt 
delivered. The chargeback reason code which Santander used permitted  the use of Miss Ms 
written account of what happened to be submitted as evidence. 
So given all of this, I dont  think Santander  acted fairly and I think  it ought to have  robustly 
pursued the chargeback further.  Had it done so, I think its more likely than not Miss M would 
have received a refund. I therefore  think Santander should refund Miss M the £800 she paid, 
adding 8% simple interest per year from the date it stopped pursuing the chargeback.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im planning  to uphold this complaint and direct 
Santander UK Plc to:
Refund Miss M the £800 she paid, adding  8% simple interest per year from the date 
the chargeback  claim was stopped  to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2020.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4423410