K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays)  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Mr H bought the policy in 2003 at the same  time as he took out a credit  card.  Our adjudicator  
didnt uphold  the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,  so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 21 May 2019, a copy of 
which is repeated  below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision 
I set out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 21 June 2019.  Mr H has acknowledged that he has received the 
provisional decision and at the time of writing  I have received no further  submission from 
him. I consider that Mr H has had sufficient time to make a submission had he wanted  to, so 
I am proceeding to my final decision. At the time of writing Barclays has responded and said 
it had no further  submissions to make. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Hs complaint  and Ill explain  why.
I have considered that recollections can fade over time and these events occurred over 15 
years ago. So Ive also looked at the documentation  available to assess  what  I think is most 
likely to have happened.
Barclays have told us that the PPI was sold during a meeting  in a branch. Mr H told us the 
PPI was attached  automatically to his credit. Barclays have provided  a copy of Mr Hs 
application form from August 2003. To get the cover  Mr H had to tick a box. The box is 
ticked and Mr H has signed the form, which most likely suggests  he agreed to its contents. 
Mr H has told us it was not him that ticked the box on the form. If thats an accurate 
recollection then Mr H would most  likely have been aware of that at the time of the sale  
and he signed  the form agreeing to its inclusion. Or if it was added later then Ive considered  
that the statements from as early  as May 2004 show that Mr H was paying  for Payment 
Protection Plan. These statements  would have put Mr H on notice that he was paying for 
something he now tells us he didnt agree to. If that were the case  I think Mr H would have 
raised this as an issue with Barclays many  years before he eventually did. So I think it most 
likely that Mr H agreed to taking the policy  at the time of the sale, and did so knowing that he 
had a choice about doing so, even if he doesnt  recall that now.
Ref: DRN40460702Barclays say it recommended the PPI to Mr H. As this puts more responsibility on Barclays 
for how it sold the PPI, Ive looked at the complaint on the basis advice was given. This 
means Barclays had to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr H. And looking at his 
circumstances at the time I think it was. I say this because:
Mr H was eligible for the policy he wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions of 
the policy terms and conditions which couldve made it difficult to make a successful 
claim. I say this as Mr H told us he developed a medical condition but it was several 
years after the sale of the policy.  Mr H originally told us that he worked part time as a 
property developer. However the application form records  a different occupation  for 
him. Mr H suggested that he worked  less than 16 hours a week at the time of the 
sale in the occupation  on the application  form. The application also records  a salary  
for Mr H that suggests that he was, most likely, working more  than 16 hours a week.  
Mr H then told us that he had a second job at the time. In trying  to clarify these 
matters we asked  Mr H if he had any evidence he could share with us. At the time of 
writing Mr H has not been able to provide  any evidence to support his testimony  so I 
havent been able to place the weight on it that he may have wished me to. So 
considering all the submissions that have been  made in this case,  I dont think that 
Mr Hs employment made the policy unsuitable  for him, most likely. 
Mr H also seemed  to have had a need for the cover.  At the time he took out PPI, 
Mr H told us he was entitled  to no sick pay from his employer  and that he had no 
other means he could  have relied  on. As the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 
months in the event  that Mr H was off work long term through illness,  or if he lost his 
job, I think this policy couldve been useful for Mr H, especially as he didnt have any 
savings at the time. 
Theres nothing to show me Mr H couldnt afford the policy and the premium  was 
comparable to that of other policies from the time which  offered similar levels  of 
cover.
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think the policy  was suitable for Mr H. 
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr H, Barclays also had to give him clear enough 
information about the policy so he could decide if he wanted  to buy it. Its possible  the 
information Barclays gave  Mr H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. But for 
the same  reasons Ive mentioned above  that I think the policy was suitable  for him, I dont 
think better information wouldve stopped him from buying it.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr H, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I have considered afresh all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the absence of 
Ref: DRN40460703any further points  for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as 
set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
think the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold   so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt  have  to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC has already paid back to Mr H any commission and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. So I make no further award  against  
Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H either to 
accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing,  before  28 July 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4046070