K820x#14complaint
Mrs D says Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs D bought the policy in 2000 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. She applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  in branch. 
At the time,  Mrs D was employed  as a produce  assistant. I think its likely she wouldve been  
entitled to statutory sick pay, and she told us she didnt have any other means of repaying 
her credit card should she be unable  to work. Mrs D has said she was in good health  at the 
time of the sale. She has mentioned medical  conditions but these all seem to have occurred 
in the years after the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, unemployment and life subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  5% of Mrs Ds credit card balance in the event 
of a successful claim for up to 12 months with the outstanding balanced cleared on the 12th 
month. In the event  of a claim on the life element of the policy,  the outstanding  balance 
would be cleared up to a maximum  of £10,000. At the time, it cost no more than 79p per 
£100 of the monthly outstanding balance. The premium  would  continue  to have to be paid 
during a successful  claim and it did attract  interest. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account closed in 2006.  
Mrs Ds representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ds representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs D wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ds  
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mrs D about  the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs D and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
Ref: DRN47493412The information Mrs D received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ds. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN47493413The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ds 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional  advisers to 
give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of 
good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs Ds complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mrs D with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN47493414-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs D, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs D suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs D and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs D know she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Ds 
signed credit  agreement.  On it there  is a section related to PPI labelled  optional features 
where the Yes box opting for the policy has been ticked. If Mrs D hadnt  wanted the policy  
she couldve  ticked the No box  which has been  left blank. Mrs D has signed the form so I 
think its likely to reflect what she wanted. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs D knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Mrs D says Lloyds didnt  provide advice during this sale. Lloyds disagrees and says it did 
provide advice. Looking at what happened  when Lloyds sold Mrs D the PPI, Im persuaded 
that it provided advice.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mrs D with reasonable care and skill, in particular  whether  
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs D. It seems  Mrs D cant remember  clearly what  happened and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some limited  information about 
Mrs Ds financial  circumstances,  but there is no specific evidence to show the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Mrs D would have been caught by the significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Lloyds considered whether Mrs D had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that Lloyds did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs D given her circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable  care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs D, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs D met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mrs D had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs Ds ability  to continue to 
meet her credit card repayments would  have been put under strain if she was not 
Ref: DRN47493415working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the statutory sick pay its 
likely she would have been  entitled to.
-Although Mrs D says she was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing  else 
to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs D. Based on 
what shes told us, there was nothing about  Mrs Ds employment  or occupation which  
would have made it difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt told us about any pre-
existing medical conditions that could  affect  her ability to claim. There were  also no 
additional restrictions on cover  for mental health  or back  problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability or unemployment, it still provided  useful cover  given  Mrs Ds 
circumstances and the fact the policy could have cleared her outstanding card 
balance.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mrs D sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs D was given a very broad description  of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mrs D would have been told this  at the very least   during  the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mrs D would have taken out the policy without  
any sense of what the policy was. The application  form she signed also described the policy  
as for the additional peace of mind of knowing  that you can continue to meet  your minimum 
credit card payments if you cant  work  due to accident, sickness or unemployment, which  
would have given  her some idea of what the policy was for.
Im also satisfied Mrs D would  have realised the policy wasnt free and its likely she would 
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mrs D 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary 
Mrs D might have  been given, I think its more likely than not that she based her decision  on 
the things she was told, rather than on anything she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs D, Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mrs D. Im not persuaded that Lloyds gave Mrs D all of the information 
she needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ref: DRN47493416Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ds representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ds. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ds representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs D about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ds representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs D has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mrs D? To what extent did Mrs D suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs D. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs D 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs D 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Lloyds took the steps  it should  have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mrs D, I have found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs D has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mrs D would have acted  differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs D says she would not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
Ref: DRN47493417return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs D had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her credit card payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, she concluded she wanted  
that product.  But she made that decision based  on incomplete information,  meaning what 
she thought she was getting  is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ds circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs D ought  reasonably to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that Lloyds didnt make clear the on-going cost information.  So while Mrs D 
didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not 
dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  she based her 
decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs D thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded disability claims occurring within 12 months of the start date of 
the policy arising from any condition, injury,  illness,  disease, sickness,  related 
condition and/or associated symptoms whether diagnosed or not which Mrs D knew 
about, or should have known about,  at the start date of the policy or which  she had 
seen or arranged to see a doctor  about,  during  the 12 months immediately before the 
start date;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs D 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs D be unable  to 
do her normal work  (meaning her work immediately before her disability, or any 
other work which the insurer  thinks she is, or may reasonably become, qualified for in 
view of her training, education  and ability) and must not being doing any other  work.
I do accept there is a possibility that the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs D pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs D from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
she wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mrs D didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. 
The policy would only cover claims for unemployment if Mrs D had been  continuously  
employed for a minimum of six months. Mrs Ds credit application suggests she had been 
with her employer for one month when the policy was sold.  She doesnt remember  there 
Ref: DRN47493418being a gap in her employment prior to this  so theres no suggestion she wouldnt be able 
to claim for unemployment  from the outset. So, I still think  she had some  good reasons to 
take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mrs D 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.  
If Mrs D had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable  to do both her work 
and any other work which in the insurers view she is, or may reasonably become qualified  
for in view of her training, education  and ability, it might have played into her thinking about  
what she would have  done. And I accept  it may have given her pause for thought  although 
its possible she may not have been  overly concerned given  that if Mrs D was unable  
(through disability) to carry  on her own occupation  the chances  that she would be able to 
take up a similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs D would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her statutory  sick pay entitlements. And in those circumstances 
I consider it more likely  than not that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Mrs Ds representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs D would not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ds 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs D 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs D believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN47493419Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs D in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mrs D compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs D thinks Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mrs D, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2000 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ds representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs D and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs D in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4749341