K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  about the way AXA Insurance  UK Plc (AXA)  has handled her claim for 
escape of water against her home  insurance  policy.
There are several parties involved  in this complaint, representing both parties. For ease I 
have referred only to AXA and Ms A.
background
In August  2018  Ms A noticed an escape  of water in the kitchen  of her property and made a 
claim under her home  insurance  policy with AXA.  AXA accepted the claim and appointed a 
loss adjuster to review  it. The loss adjuster reached  the view that the property was 
significantly underinsured.
When Ms A bought  the policy,  she had estimated that the rebuild costs  were about 
£300,000. But the loss adjuster thought the rebuild costs were  £577,000. So as Ms A was 
underinsured, AXA decided to settle her claim on a proportionate basis   offering  her 52% of 
the claim  in line with the policy terms.
Ms A doesnt believe this was fair and has said that she made a previous  claim under the 
policy and wasnt told she was underinsured at that time.
Ms A has also raised concerns about the delays  she has experienced during AXAs  handling 
of this claim.  AXA acknowledged there had been  delays  and offered her £600 compensation 
in recognition of this.
This complaint was originally dealt with as two separate complaints  one considering the 
underinsurance and the other considering  the delays during the claim handling.  But as they 
relate to one claim  and there is significant overlap  I will be considering all the concerns 
Ms A has raised with this service in this decision.
Our investigator didnt  think Ms As complaint about her underinsurance  should be upheld. In 
short, she agreed that Ms A was underinsured and agreed that AXA had offered to settle the 
claim in line with the policy terms. The investigator  that considered the claim handling also 
didnt think that part of the complaint should be upheld. He thought there were significant 
delays during the handling of the claim,  some  of which were avoidable. But he thought the 
offer of £600 fairly  reflected the distress caused by this.
Ms A didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigators and for the same  reasons.
underinsurance
Ms A purchased this policy in 2012 through a price comparison  website. She has raised 
several issues about the sale of the policy and the advice she was given at the time 
surrounding the rebuild cost. But I havent  seen any evidence that it was AXA that provided 
Ref: DRN47832712that information and I wont  be addressing any concerns about the broker  in this decision,  
which relates solely to the actions of AXA.
Ms As policy states when taking out a policy, You are asked the amount it would take to 
completely rebuild Your Home, Outbuildings  or replace Your  Contents  as new,  the sum 
insured. If the sum insured isnt enough,  you are underinsured. This might  mean that any 
claim that is settled will be reduced in proportion depending on how underinsured You are, 
regardless of the amount  of the claim. AXA has relied on this term to only pay Ms A just 
over half of the total cost of the claim and I have considered  whether  I believe it has acted 
fairly in doing  so.
AXAs loss adjuster estimated the total rebuild cost of the property to be around £577,000, 
which varied significantly from Ms As estimate. I have considered  AXAs loss adjusters 
breakdown of the estimate and the explanation it has given for the total rebuild cost  where 
it has calculated the total floor area of the three floors  in the property, including  the loft and 
used that as a basis  for the estimate.  The estimate  AXA has come to using the online 
calculator is £558,000, which is close to the value AXAs loss adjuster reached.
Ms A has provided a copy of her own calculation  using the calculator she was referred to 
online. This shows an estimated figure  of £296,000.  But AXA has pointed  out that the floor 
area she has used is significantly smaller  than the actual measurements  of the property. So 
Im not satisfied that this figure is accurate  or evidences that AXAs  loss adjusters rebuild 
costs are unreliable.
Ms A has also raised concerns that she raised a claim in 2015  and wasnt  informed at that 
stage that her property  was underinsured.  I have  considered this but given that the total 
claim was relatively small at around  £1,500, AXA has explained that a loss adjuster wasnt 
appointed to the claim. And so details such as the sum insured may not have been checked  
in the same way they would for a larger claim. I can appreciate why Ms A would be 
disappointed at not being notified she was underinsured at an earlier  stage but ultimately it 
was her responsibility to ensure that she had adequate cover in place for her property. And 
Ms A had the benefit of her claim in 2015 being  paid in full so I dont think this impacts  my 
decision on this complaint. 
Having considered the evidence I have, I am satisfied  that AXA acted reasonably  in applying 
the terms of the policy. As Ms A was significantly underinsured, I dont think  AXA was wrong 
to reduce the settlement  proportionately in line with how underinsured she was. And I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude  that AXAs loss adjuster calculated the rebuild 
cost incorrectly. So I dont  think AXA needs  to do anything further in relation to this aspect of 
Ms As complaint.
delays and customer service
Ms A says she first submitted  this claim at the end of August 2018  and didnt receive  the first 
part of her settlement  from AXA until March  2019, with the remainder being paid in July 2019 
 around 11 months  after she first submitted the claim.
Initially it took a couple  of weeks for the loss adjuster to visit the property and another  few 
weeks for AXA to accept the claim.  Following this, AXA entered  into protracted 
correspondence with Ms A about the underinsurance aspect of her claim. In October 2018 
AXA explained that it could appoint someone  to begin the stripping out works that would be 
needed to fully assess the claim  and dry out the property.
Ref: DRN47832713I can also see that during  October 2018,  AXA made an initial offer of £6,350 + VAT in 
respect of the claim and explained that it wouldnt be able to give an accurate cost until the 
stripping out works had begun. It explained  that this offer would be increased  if certain  
situations arose. Ms A requested a breakdown of these costs and also requested  a full 
schedule of works. But AXA didnt provide this to Ms A, despite repeated requests and I 
think this caused  a significant delay  to the claim as Ms A wanted a copy  of this before 
proceeding with the stripping out works. So I think AXA could have  done  more to provide  
Ms A with the information  she was requesting. And while it seems AXA was trying  to explain 
that it needed to strip out the kitchen before providing this information, I think it could have 
been clearer about this in its correspondence to avoid any confusion to Ms A.
Ms A says AXA caused significantly more damage by not repairing the property in a timely  
manner. But I can see AXA offered to begin  the strip out works  in October 2018 and made  
her an initial  offer that she could have taken in order to begin the works to her property and 
ensure it was safe. So I dont think I can hold AXA wholly responsible  for this aspect of the 
damage. And while I was sorry to hear about  Ms As familys health  issues,  I havent seen 
any evidence attributing those issues to the actions of AXA.
Ms A would  like AXA to reimburse  her for the costs she paid to a loss assessor  in order to 
progress the claim.  But we wouldnt  generally award professional  costs  in this way. Ms A 
chose to appoint  a loss assessor to handle the claim on her behalf   and having reviewed 
the timeline, it does  seem  that it helped progress  things  as relations between Ms A and AXA 
had broken down  by that time. But prior to Ms A choosing  to appoint a loss assessor on her 
behalf, AXA had already  accepted the claim and made an initial offer.  So while  Ms A was 
entitled to appoint a loss assessor to work on her behalf, I dont think AXA needs to cover 
these costs.
So taking all of that into account, I think the £600 compensation offered by AXA in respect of 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  to Ms A by the avoidable delays and poor customer 
service Ms A received is in line with what I would have recommended. So I dont think AXA 
needs to do anything further  in relation  to this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. AXA Insurance UK Plc should pay Ms 
A the £600  compensation  it has already  offered  her if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4783271