K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that a caravan she acquired  with the assistance of finance from Black  
Horse Limited was misrepresented to her and she couldnt use it for as much  of the year as 
she was expecting. She says she wouldnt have gone ahead  with the sale if she had known 
the correct position with the opening  times of the site.
background
Mr and Mrs R bought  a static caravan to use as a holiday home in April 2015.  The finance  
was taken out in the sole name  of Mrs R and so I will refer to her in this decision. The 
caravan cost £80,000. Mrs R paid a £10,000 deposit and the rest was financed  with an 
agreement with Black Horse with monthly  repayments of £1209.51 over 84 months.
Mrs R explains  that the caravan  was sold to her on the basis  that she would be able to use it 
from the 1 March to 30 November.  Initially  Mrs R did use the caravan within these times but 
on 8 November 2017 Mrs R received  notice  from the local council enforcement  team to 
vacate the site as there was no license in place to enable the homes  to be continually  
occupied between 31 October and 15 March. The license that was in place allowed 
residents to stay only at weekends between 1 November and 31 January and 1 to 15 March.  
In April 2018 an application was made to vary the license conditions  which  was initially 
declined but finally accepted and from October 2018 residents were  told that they could  use 
their homes continually between 1 March until 30 November.  This license is only valid until 
2021.
Mrs R hadnt been making the agreed monthly  repayments for several months  and Black  
Horse had begun legal  proceedings in January 2019. In around March 2019 Mrs R decided  
that she no longer  wanted to keep the holiday home  because of the uncertainty. The park 
owners initially agreed to pay off Mrs Rs outstanding  finance,  which  at that time stood  at 
£39,767, and pay her £10,000  on the basis that she agreed this was a final settlement 
against any claims against the park for misrepresentation. Mrs R didnt agree to this and the 
sale ultimately fell through. Black Horse  came to an agreement with Mrs R in June 2019 and 
the caravan was returned to Black  Horse. Black Horse then sold the caravan back to the 
park owners and received £26,875.    
Our Investigator  initially  considered this complaint in December 2019. He thought that there 
had been a misrepresentation to Mrs R about the opening times of the site and the time that 
she would  be able to use her caravan. He thought that it would be fair to put Mrs R in the 
position she would have been in had she not proceeded with the sale subject to a deduction  
for her use of the caravan  during  the time she had possession of it. He didnt have all the 
figures, but Mrs R explained that she had spoken  to the new owners who confirmed that the 
caravan was sold to them  for £74,000. Our investigator thought it would be fair for Mrs R to 
be refunded all the repayments  she had made  under the agreement  together with her 
deposit together with interest at 8% less a deduction of £6000  to reflect the depreciation in 
value.
Mrs R accepted the investigators view but Black Horse replied to say that this was unfair. It 
accepted that there had been an element  of misrepresentation at the point of sale but that 
the redress suggested was excessive and didnt take into account  the fair use Mrs R had of 
the caravan. It said that the caravan was repossessed for non-payment and this wasnt 
related to the misrepresentation. It said that Mrs R would still have use of the caravan if she 
had maintained the repayments. It agreed  to refund the deposit and all monthly repayments 
Ref: DRN46066072from November 2017 which  is when the misrepresentation  came  to light,  and Mrs R was 
asked to vacate  the site.
The investigator considered all the points  put forward  by Black Horse and in a further view 
he set out why he was standing  by his earlier conclusions. He thought that it was reasonable 
to assume that this was a long-term  investment for Mrs R and that she would keep  the 
caravan on the site for a number of years after the finance had been  repaid. He thought that 
the misrepresentation and the way it had been dealt with had resulted in a position whereby 
that was no longer possible, and Mrs R had paid out a great deal of money at the outset of 
the agreement  for an asset that she no longer owned. He thought that Black  Horse should 
put this right in the way outlined in his previous view.
Black Horse  didnt agree  and responded to say in summary that it still did not agree with the 
redress proposed. It set out the timeline  of the complaint and said that it was not aware of 
the issue with the misrepresentation  until the caravan was sold. It stood  by its earlier  
acknowledgement that a misrepresentation had occurred at the point of sale.  It said that it 
would suffer a loss if all the repayments  were  refunded because  the caravan was used, and 
it only received £26,875.  It also referred  to an earlier ombudsman decision in which  a 
deduction of monthly  repayments was made to reflect the use of the caravan  and said that 
the same  principles should apply.    
As the matter has not been agreed it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have considered  very carefully all the 
information that has been provided and I have also reviewed the decision made by an 
ombudsman that Black Horse considered was similar. This has taken  some  time and I do 
apologise to the parties  for the delay in this decision.
At the outset I should explain that each  complaint  is decided on its merits considering  all the 
information the parties have submitted. I consider the law and any relevant rules, but I dont 
apply the law in the same way a court might. This service looks  at what  would be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
The caravan  site owners have strenuously denied  that there was any misrepresentation 
about the amount of time Mrs R could use her caravan at the time of sale. I have looked at 
the license information and applications  made,  and I agree with the investigator  that it wasnt  
made clear to Mrs R that there was an issue with the license, and I imagine it must have 
been a shock  when she was told to vacate  the site or face prosecution.  The fact that an 
application to the council  was required from the owners to regularise the position and that 
there was ongoing  enforcement action suggests  that this was more than a 
misunderstanding. The matter took some time to resolve and during  that period there was 
understandable anxiety  and uncertainty from Mrs R about her use of her caravan  going 
forward. Mrs R has said that the way that the matter was dealt with resulted  in her wanting  to 
leave the site. I think that there was a misrepresentation made  to Mrs R at the time of sale 
about the time that she would be able to use her caravan. Black Horse  has accepted that 
there was an element  of misrepresentation and so I dont think  I need to say any more  about 
this.
Ref: DRN46066073The issue  is what Black  Horse should  do to put things right. I think  that it is fair to 
acknowledge that Mr and Mrs R were  buying  a caravan that they intended to use for a 
number of years. The caravan cost £80,000  which is a significant  investment. Mrs R 
explained that the caravan was situated on a prime spot overlooking  the sea and it was 
intended to be used in retirement.  I think it is likely  that if Mrs R had been  told about  the 
limitations on use, she would not have purchased that caravan on that site.
I can see from the evidence from Black Horse that there were  difficulties  with the 
repayments being made on time. Looking at the repayments I can see that the difficulties 
were more serious after November 2017. In July 2018 Mrs R effectively stopped  paying  and 
negotiations were ongoing  with the site owners  to buy back the caravan and leave  the site. I 
have seen documents that confirm in March 2019  the site owners agreed to settle  the 
outstanding finance which at that time stood at £39,767 and pay Mrs R £10,000 which 
included a balance  of £7449.93 which  was stated to be the residual value of the caravan 
after the finance was settled. This would suggest that the caravan was worth at least  
£47,217 in February  2019. Mrs R says that she has spoken with the new owners  who have 
told her they bought the caravan for £74,000.
I think that part of the issue  with the value of the caravan is where  it is situated.  Mrs R says 
that it was in a prime position  overlooking the sea. It was sold to Mrs R on that pitch. In an 
email dated April 2019 to this service the site owners confirmed that the pitch on which the 
caravan was situated is valuable to us. I think it is reasonable to conclude  that the value of 
the caravan itself without taking into account  the location is likely to be much less. I accept 
Mrs S didnt own the land and had to pay site fees for the pitch.  But I think  it is reasonable to 
conclude that the location of the caravan  has a value that was incorporated into the price  
paid by Mrs R.
I have no reason to doubt what she says about  the caravan being sold to the new owners for 
£74,000. The site owners were  asked for information about the price that the caravan was 
sold for but have refused to provide that information. In the circumstances I agree with the 
investigator and I think it is reasonable to conclude that the value of the caravan depreciated 
by £6000 during  the time it was owned  by Mrs R.
If Mrs R had been given  the correct information, I dont think  she would have proceeded with 
the purchase of the caravan on that site and so I think she should be put in the position she 
would have been in if she had not made  the agreement. I think  that the agreement should be 
unwound, and Mrs R should have the return of all of the money paid under the agreement 
including her deposit together with 8% simple interest.
I have taken into account what is said by Black Horse  about difficulties with repayment but 
this came much later in the agreement and after the misrepresentation had come to light.  
Mrs R has explained she wanted  to leave the site and I can understand why she didnt want 
to pay any further  instalments given the issues and whilst she was in negotiations with the 
site owners to settle the outstanding finance.  Mrs R has paid in excess  of £56000  towards 
an asset which she hoped to own for a considerable period which she no longer has. I dont  
agree that the repayment difficulties on their own would suggest that Mrs R intended  to 
return the caravan  or couldnt afford to keep  it. Mrs R has made significant repayments and I 
havent seen anything to suggest that circumstances changed and she could no longer 
afford to keep it.
Mrs R has had the use of the caravan between April 2015 and June 2019, but it was not as 
much as she was expecting and there were issues with her enjoyment of the caravan  given  
Ref: DRN46066074the enforcement action  and the uncertainty around  the license. So, I think  that it is 
reasonable to deduct something from the redress proposed above to reflect the use Mrs R 
had. I agree with the investigator  that £6000 is appropriate to reflect  the depreciation of the 
caravan. I dont think that this is the same  as a car finance agreement where the car would 
depreciate in line with the monthly  repayments  and could be considered  equivalent to 
rentals. Mrs R planned to own the caravan  and keep it on the pitch  for many years into her 
retirement and the monthly instalments on the 7-year agreement are out of proportion to that 
long-term value. I dont think they represent fair use of the caravan on a monthly  basis.     
              
I have taken into account the previous decision made by this service but as I explained at 
the outset, I have decided this complaint on its merits. I think  the position in that case was 
very different and what constitutes fair use will differ in each case  depending on the 
circumstances.   
I dont doubt that this has been an upsetting and stressful  experience  for Mrs R and Black 
Horse have previously offered to pay £200  to reflect the trouble and upset. I think  that this is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Black Horse  to do the following:
Refund all repayments made  by Mrs R under the agreement except for a deduction 
of £6000  to reflect  Mrs Rs use of the caravan;
Refund the deposit paid by Mrs R;
Add 8% simple interest to all refunds including the deposit from the date the 
payments were made  until the date Mrs R gets them  back;
Remove the agreement from Mrs Rs credit file;
Pay Mrs R £200 for the trouble and upset  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 September  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4606607