K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that a remortgage  he applied for through  Mortgage  Compare  Limited was 
declined by the lender. He says this was due to Mortgage Compare inputting incorrect 
information on the application  form.
background
On 2 November  2017 Mortgage Compare obtained an agreement  in principle from a lender 
Ill call K. It submitted a full application and upon reviewing that K decided to decline the 
application.
Mortgage Compare  asked Ks business  development manager  for an explanation  for the 
decline, and he said it was declined following an internal audit. He said it wasnt something 
that could be appealed,  and no further  information  was available.
Mr H complained to both K and to Mortgage Compare. K told Mr H why the application had 
been declined,  with its reasons including:
The address history  provided for Mr H was incorrect.
Two existing mortgages were shown on Mr Hs credit file, one of which was in an 
arrangement for 19 months (to address arrears accrued in 2013).
Although the reason  for credit impairment was given as divorce,  Mr Hs address history 
indicated hed not lived at any address with his wife since  2009.
The remortgage amount requested  was £200,000  although the balances shown on 
Mr Hs credit  file do not correlate with this, and the reason for the additional funds was 
not disclosed.
Mortgage Compare  rejected Mr Hs complaint, sending him a letter  setting out its reasons on 
16 May 2018. In that it admitted it had mis-keyed the information  about the borrowing and 
hadnt explained the reason for the additional  funds, but said that wasnt  why the application 
was declined. That letter  gave Mr H six months to refer his complaint to this service. 
Fortuitously Mr H referred his complaint to us on 15 November 2018,  the day before the 
deadline expired, as he said as part of his referral that hed not received a response from 
Mortgage Compare.
Our case handler didnt  uphold the complaint, saying that any mis-keying of the application 
wasnt the sole reason  for the application  being declined. Mr H didnt agree and so its been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive reviewed the letters K sent to Mr H setting out its reasons for declining  his application. 
Whilst Mortgage Compare  has admitted  that it entered some incorrect information on the 
application, Im satisfied that wouldnt  have  been  Ks key concern as thats easily corrected 
and explained.  It seems likely K would  have been  much more concerned that one of Mr Hs 
existing mortgages  was in an arrangement for 19 months (to address arrears accrued in 
2013), and the reason  for credit impairment was given as divorce  although Mr Hs address 
history indicated hed not lived at any address with his wife since  2009.
Ref: DRN40792082Those are both things  unrelated to the information Mortgage Compare incorrectly input, and 
are far more likely to affect a lending decision than a box being incorrectly  ticked  and/or a 
section not being completed when it should  have  been.
I sympathise with Mr H for incurring a fee for an unsuccessful application, but Im satisfied 
the decision to decline the application  wasnt  down to the error admitted  to by Mortgage  
Compare.
my decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4079208