K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Suffolk Life Pensions Limited (SL) is responsible for the delay in and 
mismanagement of the transfer of his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP)  the 
transfer. He says the transfer began  in January 2017 and was completed in June 2018, 
after an exceptional delay  that was caused by SL and/or for which it is ultimately 
responsible.
background
The background to the complaint can be summarised as follows:
Mr H initially  held his SIPP with European Pensions Management Ltd (EPML). The 
arrangement made it possible  for him to trade,  directly, stocks and shares in the 
SIPP and he did that through  the iDealing.com  (iDealing) platform   where he 
already held an Individual Savings Account and a general  trading account.
SL took over EPML  in 2016  and Mr H has highlighted that SL is a part of Curtis 
Bank (CB). SL  an execution only SIPP provider   did not have an arrangement 
with iDealing and Mr H wished to retain  the same direct share dealing facility  so he 
says he sought  an alternative SIPP provider that would allow  that.
He opted for Pointon York (PY), which he highlights was also a part of CB, as the 
new SIPP provider he would transfer his SIPP to. This option also provided  for the 
type of direct share dealing facility he wanted,  through The Share Centre  (TSC). 
This decision initiated, in January 2017, the transfer  of the SIPP  from SL to PY  
which is the transfer the complaint is about. 
In the course  of the transfer  and the delay  within it, SLs platform  provider   Selftrade 
 was introduced  to the matter, in an effort to dematerialise shares belonging to Mr H 
that had been converted  by iDealing  to certificated form. SL proposed  the use of 
Selftrade to Mr H in late 2017  and he agreed.  The idea was for the certificated shares 
to be passed to and received by Selftrade and then for those shares to be 
dematerialised by Selftrade before being passed on to TSC (as part of the 
overall/main transfer).
Mr H made a number of complaints to SL as the transfer process was being delayed.  
He held SL responsible in his complaints.  SL responded to the complaints and 
consistently disputed  them.  It said, amongst  other  things,  that the delay(s) and the 
other complaint  issues Mr H had raised  were within  iDealings  responsibility  (as his 
fund manager) and that iDealing had refused to acknowledge  and then delayed in 
acknowledging  SLs takeover of EPMLs pension plans. It said this directly hindered 
the transfer. 
A crucial role in Mr Hs trading strategy  was played by stop loss arrangements he 
applied and maintained in his share  dealing settings. The relevant 
arrangements/settings were cancelled  during  the transfer process and SL confirmed 
that this too had been caused  by and had arisen from iDealings actions  particularly 
from iDealings conversion  of Mr Hs share from electronic to certificated  form.  
Overall, SLs position was that it had done nothing  wrong  and that it was not 
responsible for iDealings actions or inactions. Mr H referred the complaint to this 
service, and it was initially addressed by one of our adjudicators. Mr H also submitted 
a complaint against iDealing  which is being addressed by this service  separately. 
That complaint  was made  to, and addressed by, iDealing in 2017.  
Ref: DRN47490352I issued a Jurisdiction Decision (JD) in the present complaint on 17 February 2021, which  
set out what this service  can and cannot address within the complaint. The JD did this within  
the following  relevant contents:
May 2017  Mr H sent an email to SL, on the 20th of this month,  about  the time it was taking 
to progress the transfer and about how his trading in the SIPP had been  affected by that.
June 2017  SL treated Mr Hs email as a complaint and responded on the 2nd of this 
month. In its letter, SL did not accept that it had delayed the transfer and did not accept that 
it had prevented Mr H from trading.
August  2017   SL wrote  again  to Mr H on the 15th of this month.  This time it did so in 
response to Mr Hs email of the 4th of this month. It treated his email  as another  complaint.  
Its letter summarised the complaint issues as the delayed transfer, Mr Hs concern  about his 
assets being out of the market during  the delay, his allegation that the delay  was causing 
him a financial loss, his concerns about  conversion of his shares  into certificated form during 
the transfer process, his displeasure about  the costs of dematerialising those certificated 
shares, his allegation that SL had committed administrative  errors and his claim for 
compensation (for all losses and fees incurred). SL said it had committed no wrongdoing or 
service failure related  to the allegations and it did not uphold  the complaint.
July 2018  Mr H complained again  in 2018, around the time the transfer was completed. 
On the 3rd of this month  SL sent him its response. Its letter  addressed the following matters  
Mr Hs allegation that SL had mismanaged the transfer and was responsible  for the delay, 
his allegation  that trading and investments (and account settings related to both) in the SIPP 
had been affected by the matter and his pursuit for accountability for the conversion of his 
shares to certificated form. It concluded, with reasons,  that it was not responsible for any of 
these matters and allegations.
One of our adjudicators  looked into Mr Hs complaint  and issued a view on our jurisdiction to 
address it and on its merits. With regards to our jurisdiction he considered as follows:
All three  complaint responses from SL notified Mr H about the six months  time limit 
for referring the complaint  to this service. The deadline for referral  after the 2 June 
2017 response was 2 December 2017;  the deadline for referral after the 15 August 
2017 response was 15 February 2018;  and the deadline for referral after the 3 July 
2018 response was 3 January 2019.
The last letter referred to those previously sent by SL to address the complaint 
issues.
Mr H referred  his complaint to this service on 25 July 2018.
SL does  not give its consent to us addressing  a complaint referred  out of time.
The issues addressed  by SL in its first two responses have been  referred  to us out of 
time  Mr Hs referral was made later than the deadlines of 2 December 2017 and 15 
February 2018. The same applies to those in the third response which  had already 
been addressed  in the earlier responses.
Only the new issues  addressed in SLs third response have been referred to us in 
time. 
No exceptional  circumstances delayed Mr Hs referral of the complaint.
In summary and in practice, this service  can only address the continuing delay in the 
transfer after SLs second response of 15 August 2017.
Ref: DRN47490353 all of the core complaint issues were addressed in SLs second final response  letter   
that is, the matters  of the delay in the transfer  process; Mr Hs allegation that the delay was 
caused by SLs mismanagement; his allegation  that the delay had not been resolved for the 
same reason; his allegation about his trading/investments being  hindered/affected;  his 
allegation about incurring a financial loss in the matter; and the issue  about  the shares 
converted to certificated form during the transfer  process, for which cause for 
dematerialisation (and associated costs) arose .
As the adjudicator  said, the referral time limit based on the second  response letter  led to a 
deadline of 15 February 2018.  Mr H referred to us, in July 2018,  his complaint about the 
same issues. That referral  is out of time, no exceptional circumstances justify  its timing and 
SL has not given  us consent  for it. We do not have jurisdiction to address the issues  
determined in its final response letter of 15 August 2017.
However, based on Mr Hs complaint in 2018,  on SLs final response to that on 3 July 2018 
and on Mr Hs referral to this service within six months of that response,  we have  jurisdiction 
to address the other/ongoing  issues associated with the delayed transfer process as they 
were raised in his complaint and addressed by SL, and as they were  from 15 August 2017 
onwards and up to the complaint being addressed on 3 July 2018. Those issues  have been 
referred to us in time.
The merits (or otherwise) of the complaint are now to be addressed in this decision, based 
on the remit set out in the JD (as quoted  above). The adjudicator made  the following main 
findings on the merits of the complaint:
He considered that the two main  matters to address were removal of Mr Hs stop loss 
settings during the transfer process (including  his claim of a financial  loss from this) 
and the time taken,  after 15 August  2017, to complete the transfer.
He concluded  that the removal of the stop loss settings is a matter remote to SL, 
because it was a consequence of iDealing converting his shares into certificated form 
 which  he found to be an event that played a part in almost  all the other issues he 
had complained about. The adjudicator found that SL was not responsible  for the 
conversion and could not reasonably be held responsible  for iDealings actions in that 
respect, so he did not consider that this part of the complaint  should be upheld.
The adjudicator  viewed the post 15 August 2017  events as follows  at the time the 
initial transfer from EPML to SL had been completed, but the certificated shares 
remained in place  and PY would not accept them (in the transfer  from SL to PY); 
around November  2017 SL wrote to Mr H to say the transfer to PY, on the terms he 
instructed, could not happen and he was given  alternative options  to consider; by 
December 2017, and with Mr Hs agreement, SL was engaged with Selftrade in the 
process of dematerialising  his shares  and having them  temporarily lodged  with 
Selftrade; in January  2018 [the adjudicators  view included  a typographical error that 
referred to 2017] SL wrote to Mr H, first to confirm Selftrades dematerialisation of 
his shares and then to confirm that the in specie transfer process (to PY) had started; 
in March 2018 there was confirmation  that TSC would be Mr Hs [transferee] 
investment manager and Selftrade  began the transfer of the shares to TSC; the delay 
that happened thereafter related  to a closure of the receiving account at PY, and all 
parties engaged  together to try to resolve  this; the correct receiving account was 
thereafter located and the transfer process  was able to continue   up to completion  
after Mr Hs consent  was obtained  in early May 2018.
Overall, the adjudicator did not consider that SL did anything wrong in the matter. 
Instead, he said  I think the demise of EPML; the actions of iDealing.com; your 
Ref: DRN47490354instructions for what you wanted to happen  with your SIPP; and some of the 
investments contained  within that SIPP combined to make  for a very difficult  
situation.
Mr H disagreed with this outcome. His comments addressed the adjudicators findings on 
our jurisdiction  which he disagreed with  and referred to his separate complaint about 
iDealing. He also disagreed with the adjudicators  finding on merit. In the main, he argued,  
with reference  to the legal principle of tort, that someone is responsible for the ordeal he 
experienced; that SL was the party with ultimate responsibility and iDealings wrongdoings 
were ultimately SLs responsibility  too; so it is arguably for SL to hold iDealing accountable 
for any wrongdoings by iDealing  it is arguably  not for him to do that.
Following the JD Mr H made further  submissions,  which  summarised the history of the 
complaint; he summarised  the important stop loss settings he had and the detriment he 
faced in having them cancelled and, as a result, having his trading left in limbo; he referred 
to being unable to trade  through Selftrade when  it was introduced, by SL, into the matter; 
and he gave an insight  into the financial loss he has incurred.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion expressed  by the adjudicator for broadly similar reasons.
Mr Hs complaint has been determined within the remit set by our jurisdiction. It is important 
to note this and to note the key contents of the JD, as quoted  above, in this respect. The 
only part of his complaint that this service has jurisdiction to address is the part relevant  to 
the events arising  from 15 August 2017 onwards   up to completion  of the transfer around 
June 2018. This means that the complaint issues or events which arose  prior to this date  
and which  were captured within  Mr Hs first two complaints to SL (and were  addressed  in 
SLs responses of 2 June  2017 and 15 August 2017)  will not be addressed.
The above  also means that most of Mr Hs comments  in response to the adjudicators view 
on merits and most  of his submissions after the JD  such  as his arguments about  ultimate  
responsibility for the delay  are essentially beyond  my consideration of his complaint. They  
relate to pre-15 August 2017  matters  which I do not have jurisdiction to address.
From 15 August 2017 onwards,  the state of affairs concerning the transfer was that it was 
still being subjected  to delay(s). Additional detriments Mr H faced were that his share dealing 
was affected and the important stop loss based  settings for his share dealing strategy had 
been cancelled  or, at least, suspended (pending likely reinstatement after completion of the 
transfer). The task before me is not to determine whether (or not) SL caused  these  
detriments. I acknowledge  that the root causes  of these issues exist prior to 15 August 2017, 
but I do not have  jurisdiction to address them. I am also mindful of the separate complaint 
against iDealing  and I do not wish to have any part of this decision prejudice our treatment of 
that complaint.
My task is to determine whether (or not) SL was responsible for mitigating or preventing the 
above detriments  after 15 August 2017;  and, if so, whether (or not) it should  have done so 
but failed. 
Ref: DRN47490355Like the adjudicator,  I will begin with reference  to the stop loss settings. Without  making any 
finding on whether  (or not) there was a wrongdoing by iDealing, I consider it safe to find  as 
matters of fact  that it was iDealing that converted Mr Hs shares into certificated form, that 
it was neither asked  nor required  to do so by SL and that it was that conversion which  
directly resulted in the cancellation  of the stop loss settings. Therefore, I am satisfied that 
this was not a matter  that SL had created and was directly obliged to reverse. However, this 
does not automatically  mean it could not have worked towards  repairing  the matter  for Mr H 
or that it was not obliged to do so. 
Reinstatement of the shares in electronic form  through  dematerialisation  was a 
prerequisite to installing  or reinstalling  any stop loss settings with any of the three  dealing  
platform providers that feature  in this case  that is, iDealing (pending  the transfer) or 
Selftrade (pending  the transfer) or TSC (after  the transfer). Evidence shows  this was not 
within SLs gift. It was the execution only SIPP  provider, it was not one of the three  dealing  
platform providers with the [potential] capabilities to address this issue.  Evidence also shows 
that SL engaged reasonably and meaningfully with Selftrade, with whom it had the closest  
relationship, in terms of having Selftrade help to address the issue.  
I note Mr Hs comment that he was not able to trade  through Selftrade, but the priorities  at 
the time were clearly the dematerialisation  of the certificated  shares and the completion of 
the transfer  and Selftrade appears to have played  a notable  role in the former, which then 
aided the latter. Between August and December 2017 there had been little to no progress in 
the dematerialisation pursuit. Responsibility in that respect was beyond SL, but by 
December its proposal to involve Selftrade  for this purpose had been  agreed by Mr H and by 
the following  month (January 2018) their mutual  purpose had been achieved and the 
process of transferring the dematerialised  shares  to PY had begun.
Overall and on balance,  I do not consider that SL could  reasonably  have done more  to help 
address a major  issue  that stood  in the way of having Mr Hs stop loss settings  installed  or 
reinstalled. To the contrary, it appears that its engagement with Selftrade is what  helped,  
directly, to resolve the matter. I am not persuaded that SL has done anything  wrong in this 
respect.
With regards to the transfer  (as a whole) after 15 August 2017, the dematerialisation task 
was a key part of the process and I have  addressed  above how SL (and Selftrade) helped to 
resolve that by January 2018. In addition, and if Mr H holds the view that the resolution itself 
was unduly delayed, evidence does not show that SL had primary responsibility for the task 
or for the delay up to that point. I also note evidence that SL also tried to progress the 
transfer on the basis of the certificated shares,  but TSC appears to have confirmed  that PY 
would not accept that. It is subsequent  to this that SL proposed the alternative that Mr H 
agreed and that achieved  progress.
The main  delay that followed completion of the dematerialisation process  and before the 
transfer was completed   was also beyond SLs responsibility. It appears to have been 
caused between  PY and TSC, and caused in relation to identification of the receiving 
account. Even if Mr H disputes this, I have not seen  credible  evidence of SL being the cause 
of problems and/or delays  in the transfer process after the shares were dematerialised. 
I understand Mr Hs claims about financial loss and lost dealing  opportunities during the 
delays in 2018 and during the entire  delayed transfer (since 15 August 2017). However, it 
follows from the findings above that, on balance, SL is not responsible  for such claims. I also 
have not seen credible evidence of SL actively hindering any dealing  pursued by Mr H 
Ref: DRN47490356during the post 15 August  2017  transfer period or of preventing  any such specific pursuit 
brought to its attention at the time.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I am not persuaded to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2021.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4749035