K820x#14Complaint
Mr R complains about the time it took Wirecard Card Solutions Limited to return money  
when they closed his Pockit account.
Background
In October  2018, Wirecard made the decision to close Mr Rs Pockit account. They said 
theyd return the remaining  funds, around  £1,000, to the original source. The original source 
was a PayPal  account.
Mr R complained about the time it took for Wirecard to send the money back. He sent 
Wirecard a number of emails and also tried to contact them through their social media page. 
But he says he didnt  get much response. Mr R says not having the money put him in a 
difficult situation  he said his landlord forced him out of his house. And the whole situation 
left Mr R mentally disturbed.
Wirecard confirmed they returned the funds  to the original source  and PayPal received the 
money and credited it to the source  account  in March 2019.  Mr R wants compensation for 
the delay of not having his money when he says he should have. 
The investigator who looked into Mr Rs complaint  didnt think  Wirecard should  pay Mr R 
compensation. He said theyd  followed their processes correctly.  The investigator also found 
that the original  source wasnt an account  in Mr Rs name. So, he said it wouldnt be fair to 
consider what impact the delay in returning the funds had on Mr R, because the money was 
never being returned to him. Mr R didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review  things.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. Ive explained further below.
Wirecard are entitled to end a business  relationship  with a customer, just as a customer can 
choose to end a business relationship with Wirecard.  Mr R doesnt seem  to be disputing 
Wirecards decision  to close his Pockit account.  Therefore,  I havent  looked into this point 
further.
What I have considered  is whether Wirecard acted correctly when they returned the funds 
which remained in the account. 
Wirecard are entitled to return any remaining funds in an account to the original source. This 
ensures the funds are sent back to the correct  person. In this case,  the original source of the 
remaining funds was a PayPal account.
Ive reviewed the evidence from Wirecard, Mr R and PayPal. Having done so, Im satisfied 
Wirecard returned the money to the correct PayPal  account. The two transactions  were 
credited to the PayPal account  in March 2019.  I also consider, based on the information  Ive 
seen, Wirecard acted appropriately  and in line with their legal and regulatory obligations 
when closing Mr Rs account.  Im also in agreement with their decision  to return  the 
remaining funds in the account  to the original source.
Ref: DRN42639212Mr R said the delay  in returning the funds caused  his mental  health  to be damaged.  And he 
says it also resulted in his landlord forcing  him out of his home. Im really sorry to hear what  
Mr R has been through.  No doubt  this would have been a really  difficult time for him. 
However, Mr R has confirmed  that the PayPal account didnt belong  to him. Therefore, it 
wouldnt be fair for me to ask Wirecard to pay Mr R compensation.  I say that because,  the 
money didnt belong to Mr R, it belonged to the owner of the PayPal account. So I cant  
reasonably agree that the delay in returning  the funds had a direct impact on Mr R.
Overall, I recognise how strongly Mr R feels about whats  happened,  and I dont doubt it was 
a frustrating and worrying time. So, I realise Mr R will be disappointed by my decision. But 
overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Wirecard have acted unreasonably and 
I cant agree  any delays had a direct financial impact on Mr R. And thats because the 
source account didnt  belong  to him. So, Im not going to ask Wirecard to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4263921