K821x#15complaint
Miss Ms complaint is about the terms of her payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy  
relating to claiming for backache  and related conditions. Miss M complains the information  
she received from St Andrews Insurance Plc in 2017, led her to cancel the policy  as the 
policy terms had changed. Miss M considers the policy was no longer suitable and wanted  a 
refund of all of the premiums she had paid.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 24 May 2019.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explained why I 
provisionally upheld  Miss Ms complaint.
Both parties  confirmed they received my provisional decision. And both parties agreed with 
my provisional findings and didnt have any further  to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As both parties agree to my provisional  findings,  and as neither party  has given me anything 
else to consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
So I now confirm those  findings.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and within my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Ms 
complaint in part.
St Andrews  Insurance Plc should put things right as explained within my provisional  
decision. Broadly  summarised, St Andrews Insurance  Plc should refund the monthly  
premiums Miss M paid from 1 January  2006,  when the backache  and related  conditions 
terms changed and became effective, up to 8 December 2017 when Miss M cancelled the 
policy.
And St Andrews Insurance Plc should  pay Miss M 8% simple interest on each payment as 
compensation for Miss M being out of pocket and deprived of this money. The 8% simple  
interest on each premium should  be calculated up until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41856002Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Miss Ms complaint is about the terms of her payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  relating to 
claiming for backache and related conditions. Miss M complains the information  she received from 
St Andrews  Insurance  Plc (St Andrews) in 2017, led her to cancel the policy as the policy terms 
had changed. Miss M considers the policy  was no longer suitable and wanted a refund of all of the 
premiums she had paid.
St Andrews  considers that it gave Miss M correct information  about the policy when  she contacted  it 
in 2017. So it thought it hadnt done anything wrong.
Our adjudicator looked  at the complaint and thought St Andrews had acted  fairly in the information it 
gave Miss M when she had contacted  it.
As the matter  hasnt been resolved its been passed to me to decide.
Before I explain my provisional findings, I would  like to clarify this decision only focuses  on St 
Andrews involvement in respect of the PPI policy  as the insurer of the policy.
Miss M has also complained  about the sale of the policy  in 2003 because she felt misled over the 
policy terms. And Miss M considered she was misled by either the seller of the policy  or by St 
Andrews as the insurer.
The complaint about the seller of the policy was looked into separately by this service under a 
different reference. The complaint about the sale of the policy only looked  at what  happened, at the 
point of sale,  in 2003.
my provisional  findings
Ive provisionally considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Miss M took out a PPI policy alongside a mortgage in 2003. Miss M has an ongoing  back condition 
and her concern  is that the terms of the policy  changed in regards  to her being able to claim for 
backache or related conditions. 
what were  the policy terms relating to backache and related conditions in 2003?
The terms  of Miss Ms policy  in 2003 in relation to claiming for a back  condition state:
G. Backache and related  conditions:
In respect of a claim for backache  and related  conditions,  radiological  evidence (for example, 
an MRI scan)  of abnormality from a doctor must be provided by you at your expense.
In February 2017 Miss M contacted St Andrews, apparently following  a letter she received from it, to 
query the terms for claiming relating to back conditions.
 
Miss M was advised  that if she wanted to claim  for a back related  condition  it was limited to the first 
three months and after this Miss M would  have to be referred to and remain  under the care of a back  
specialist. 
Ref: DRN41856003the current  terms of the policy
The current terms of the policy state:
B. Special  conditions
Payment for backache  or a related  condition will be limited to daily  benefit equivalent to three 
consecutive monthly payments of mortgage repayments benefit  unless  you suffer from a 
condition that is not simply mechanical back pain and you have been  referred to and, when 
seen, you remain under  the care of a back specialist  for the condition.
The emboldened words have a further definition. The relevant  ones here are: 
Back specialist: A doctor whose  practice is limited to specialising in the treatment of 
conditions affecting the back or spine or musculoskeletal  problems and who is an 
Orthopaedic Surgeon,  Rheumatologist,  Pain Clinic physician or Neurosurgeon.
Mechanical  back pain: Pain produced by the distortion  or dysfunction of the muscles, 
ligaments, or joints.  Mechanical  back pain does not include disc injuries, diseases  of the 
bones, or pain referred to the back by diseases in other organs.
Mechanical means the source  of the pain may be in the spinal joints,  vertebrae or soft 
tissues.
Miss M was concerned that her back condition was an ongoing long term disability.  She had 
previously had MRI scans  and had seen consultants and it was determined that there was nothing  
anyone could  do to help it and all she could do was manage the pain. So Miss M thought  that it was 
unlikely that she would be referred.
Subsequently in December 2017, Miss M contacted St Andrews and cancelled the policy.
what has St Andrews said about the reason for the change in terms,  and when did they change?
St Andrews  has explained that it considers its new policy wording  for disability claims  for back 
conditions is more relaxed  that is, favourable  to consumers  than the original terms of the policy.  It 
has advised  that the change  became effective for all claims with a claim benefit start date of on or 
after 1 January 2006.
It explained that the new wording was added to policy booklets  issued from 1 June 2006. And it 
further explained that policy booklets issued before  that date contained  the previous wording  but the 
new wording  would be applied in conjunction with the previous wording. And it said that Miss M did 
not receive an updated policy  booklet  when the changes were made.
what does the policy document  from 2003 say about  making changes to the policy?
I have reviewed Miss Ms policy document from 2003. In regards to any changes being made to the 
policy it states:
Customer care:
We have  the right to change  the terms of your plan by giving you 30 days notice in writing  
but see conditions 2, 11, 16 and 17 for special  rules that apply to changes  to your monthly 
premium and cover.
If you are not happy with the change, you may cancel your plan with effect from the date of 
this change at any time within the notice period by telephoning the administration office.
Ref: DRN41856004my thoughts on whats happened
  
Given the above,  it is clear  that changes or amendments could be made to Miss Ms policy by St 
Andrews. But, and importantly  here, St Andrews  could  only change  or amend  the policy  if it gave 
Miss M 30 days notice  in writing. And then,  should  Miss M be unhappy with any amended terms,  she 
had the option to cancel  the policy if she no longer considered it was suitable  for her needs.
So, in this case, St Andrews amended the terms of Miss Ms policy in relation to the requirements of 
claiming for backache or a related condition. This amendment  was made for claims commencing on 
or after 1 January 2006, and Miss M wasnt given the 30 days notice in writing that St Andrews 
explained in Miss Ms 2003 policy document it would give.
Having carefully considered this, I think St Andrews failed to notify Miss M of the changes, which  
meant that she wasnt in a position to consider whether the policy was of use to her at the point the 
changes were  made. And I think Miss M has lost out because  of this. Ill explain why.
When Miss M contacted St Andrews  to query the terms in 2017,  it only advised  her of the changed 
term and that the policy would pay out for up to three months before Miss M would  need to be 
referred to, and remain under the care of, a back specialist. 
But, it didnt explain  that the changed terms would  also be applied in conjunction with the existing 
terms  whatever that meant. So I do think it gave Miss M misleading  advice. It inferred  to Miss M that 
it was only the new term that would be applied. And from the call notes I have  been provided  with, this 
was reiterated to Miss M on each occasion.
I also have a concern that the two terms in question,  the existing term and the new term, are very 
different from each other. 
The new term requires  Miss M, after three months, to have been  referred to and remain under  the 
care of a back  specialist,  whereas the previous  term required Miss M to provide radiological evidence 
of an abnormality from a doctor.  So I cannot see how they could  be applied in conjunction with each 
other. It seems,  in my opinion,  that in assessing any claim  St Andrews would  ultimately have to have 
applied one or the other. 
Miss M had a real concern  that she was unlikely to be referred and ultimately she chose to cancel the 
policy in 2017 because of this. It is clear from Miss Ms testimony  that the terms relating  to backache  
and related conditions were  of importance  to her  and were a factor in her decision to take the policy 
that was underwritten  by St Andrews. Under  a previous policy that she held with St Andrews  
regarding a separate line of credit, Miss M had claimed for her back. Miss M had provided MRI scans  
and her claim was successful. So Miss M was comfortable with the policy  and the terms relating to 
backache and related conditions were  a reason  she took out the policy  in 2003.
Given the importance  of the terms in Miss Ms particular situation, had St Andrews informed Miss M 
of the change in terms when they became  effective (January  2006) I think it is reasonable  to assume  
that Miss M would have made the same choice  she made in 2017  and that was to cancel the policy. 
putting things right
Given the above,  I think  a fair way to resolve this complaint would be for St Andrews to refund  the 
premiums Miss M paid from 1 January 2006 up to 8 December 2017, when she cancelled the policy, 
because of its failure to notify Miss M formally  of the changes  it had made to it. 
St Andrews  should also pay Miss M 8%* simple interest on each premium she paid in that time.  This 
is compensation for Miss M being out of pocket and deprived of this money. The 8% simple interest 
on each refunded  premium  should be calculated up until the date of settlement.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss M can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN41856005my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I currently intend to uphold Miss Ms complaint in part.
St Andrews  Insurance  Plc should put things right by refunding the monthly  premiums Miss M paid 
from 1 January 2006, when the backache  and related  conditions terms changed and became  
effective, up to 8 December  2017 when  Miss M cancelled  the policy.
And St Andrews Insurance Plc should pay Miss M 8% simple interest on each payment as 
compensation for Miss M being out of pocket and deprived of this money. The 8% simple interest on 
each premium should be calculated  up until the date of settlement.
I invite both parties to respond to my provisional decision by 24 June 2019. 
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4185600