K820x#14complaint
Mrs K says that a Barclays Bank UK PLC mortgage  held in her name was taken out 
fraudulently and she knew nothing about it until she was contacted  many  years later - due to 
mortgage arrears - by a field agent.
background
I wont go into the full background  of this complaint as it is well known to both sides and, if I 
did so, it may lead the parties involved becoming  known  once  this decision is published 
which is contrary to our rules when publishing decisions.
Suffice to say a mortgage and linked current account were taken out over ten years ago in 
Mrs Ks name with Barclays (formally Woolwich).  After a police investigation a criminal case 
was brought against the person Mrs K alleged took out this mortgage and he was found not 
guilty in court by a jury on all counts.
Mrs K is unhappy that Barclays says she needs to repay the money,  saying new evidence 
came to light in court  that Barclays  needs  to look into.
Our investigator explained that we cant make  a finding on whether this was a fraudulent 
application as that had already been considered  by a court, and looking at Barclays  actions 
subsequent to that he didnt think it had acted unreasonably.
Mrs K didnt agree and so its been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  Ive read and
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont
comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach the right outcome.
We arent able to deal with every type of complaint thats brought  to us. There are some  
situations where our rules  dont allow us to deal with all of the issues that have  given rise to 
the complaint.   
But even where  a complaint is within our rules to look at - fully or partly  - if we believe that 
the particular circumstances  of a complaint make  it appropriate to do so, we may decide  not 
to investigate it. This is called dismissal  without consideration of the merits.
For complaints brought to us after 9 July 2015, as this one was, the rules allow  me to 
dismiss a complaint that has been the subject of a decision on its merits in court. This is an 
unusual case as whilst neither Barclays nor Mrs K were  the subject of the court case, the 
case was entirely about this situation  with it being brought against the person Mrs K says 
was guilty of fraud against her. Mrs K and her family members, along  with the defendant and 
various other  witnesses  (both for the prosecution and the defence)  gave  their evidence and 
having listened to all that the jury found the defendant not guilty of fraud. As theres no 
doubt the defendant  was the person  Mrs K says was involved (so it wasnt  a case of this 
individual being innocent,  but it could have been someone else instead) then it seems 
reasonable for Barclays to rely on the decision of the court.
Ref: DRN40481512Mrs K has said that new evidence came to light in the court  case that she didnt know  before, 
but that evidence was heard and tested in court before the not guilty verdict was given.  So 
in effect, the jury didnt find it persuasive  such that it convinced them the defendant was 
guilty of the fraud that Mrs K has alleged took place.
On that basis it would be highly inequitable for me to reach  any findings about whether or not 
fraud was committed,  as by doing so Id be trying to place myself above the power of the 
court, and thats  simply not something this service can do. All Barclays  - and I - can do is 
respect the courts decision that the defendant was not guilty  of fraud in respect of this 
mortgage application, so it follows that the debt remains the responsibility of Mrs K.
Even if I were to say there are different aspects  here to those which  were  decided in court, 
another section  of our rules allows me to dismiss a complaint if, in my opinion, it would be 
more suitable  for the complaint to be dealt with by a court. And that would definitely  be the 
case here. In effect what Mrs K is asking us to do is decide whether or not she applied for 
this mortgage  and thats not something were able to do. As was shown by the court case,  
this is a complex matter  involving many  different  parties both here and abroad, and would 
require the cross examination of witnesses  and evidence, along with the use of expert 
witnesses to consider  the various writing  and signatures. Thats not something that is within  
the scope of this service,  and our powers  dont reach that far.
I understand Mrs K is unhappy with how Barclays has handled things, but this is an unusual 
and complex situation. As I said, Im satisfied  Barclays  has done  nothing wrong in relying on 
the outcome of the court case as the basis of whether or not to hold Mrs K liable for the 
money thats owed.
The mortgage was arranged by a third-party adviser unconnected  to Barclays.  Mrs K has 
said the adviser admitted in court that he didnt follow the correct  process,  but I cant  hold 
Barclays liable for that. I also cant hold Barclays  liable if Mrs Ks income information was 
falsified (which Im not saying it was, or wasnt, as thats not a finding Im in a position to 
make). Either way Barclays was unaware  of those things  and granted the mortgage in good 
faith, and in themselves those issues dont prove Mrs K didnt agree to this mortgage. 
The application form was filled in and submitted to Barclays, which set up the mortgage as 
requested. 
Having considered this matter  very carefully I cant reasonably find that Barclays  is wrong to 
now ask Mrs K to repay that money as Im satisfied it is entitled  to rely on the courts  
findings.
Im mindful that this isnt the decision  that Mrs K was hoping for. If Mrs K still feels that 
Barclays acted incorrectly shes, of course,  free to pursue  this matter in the courts either by 
action of her own, or in her defence of any action brought by Barclays.
To close, Mrs K has said that Barclays  hasnt  answered any of her complaint. Our rules  set 
out the matters  that we can look at as being; regulated activities, payment services, lending  
money, paying money by plastic card, and ancillary  banking services. In addition, we can 
consider complaints about ancillary activities carried on in connection with the above.
The handling  of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the regulator - 
the Financial Conduct Authority  - requires financial businesses to do. But that isnt enough  to 
make it a regulated  activity within the meaning of the rule; that is, one from the list of 
activities set out in the legislation from which we derive our powers.
Ref: DRN40481513Were able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some limited  circumstances, for 
example, if the complaint handling  was ancillary to something we have the power to 
consider. So we can, in theory, consider how Barclays handled Mrs Ks complaint.
But there is another thing that we need to consider and that is that we can only make an
award for any poor customer service in handling a complaint if were upholding the
underlying issue  being complained about.  As Ive not upheld Mrs Ks complaint it
follows I cant uphold any complaint about  how Barclays  handled the complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  
Im required  to ask Mrs K to accept or reject  my decision before 23 November  2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4048151