K821x#15complaint
Mrs M has complained about the advice she received from Leven Financial Services Limited  
in relation to her AVIVA drawdown pension policy. She says that the money  in the pension  
has been held in a cash fund since inception,  paying a low level of interest. As a result of this 
she believes  she has been financially disadvantaged. 
background
Leven met with Mrs M in 2014 and recommended that she transfer  her AVIVA  pension  
policy, worth  around £32,000, into an AVIVA  drawdown plan. 
An illustration was issued  in November 2014 which  noted the intended investment fund as 
cash, and Mrs M signed forms  to proceed in December 2014. She took 25% of the funds as 
a tax free lump sum, and also began drawing a high level of income  from the Aviva pension.   
In January 2018 Mrs M complained to Leven  and in May 2018 she brought  her complaint to 
this service. 
An adjudicator considered  the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She said that whilst 
she accepted  that Mrs M did not wish to purchase  an annuity at the time, she didnt think 
Leven had sufficiently explained the risks of pension  drawdown to her, and in particular  of 
the risk her fund would be eroded  if the investment growth did not keep pace with her 
income withdrawals. 
She also accepted  that the documentation  issued to Mrs M at the end of 2014 did record that  
the pension money  would be held in cash.  But she considered Leven owed Mrs M a duty of 
care as her financial adviser to outline  the potential impact of this and make alternative 
recommendations. 
Leven didnt agree. It said that Mrs M was aware her monies were being  held in cash, and 
she was happy  with this at the time. 
The complaint has therefore been  referred  to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2014 it was agreed that Mrs M would transfer her pension to a drawdown  pension plan 
with Aviva.  This was to provide Mrs M with flexibility  with respect  to taking income  and so 
that she could  take a tax free cash lump sum. Mrs M has agreed that the alternative of an 
annuity was not right for her at the time. So I do not believe that the transfer to the drawdown 
was unsuitable  in itself. 
However Mrs Ms material concern  is the fact that the money in the drawdown pension  was 
placed in a cash fund - where any growth would be minimal. 
In September  2014 a risk assessment was carried out for Mrs M. This was used to assess  
what level of investment risk (and therefore  investment fund within the drawdown  contract)  
would be appropriate  for her. This resulted in a risk grading of 3 or low risk on a scale of 
Ref: DRN407469121 to 10. This did not necessitate a cash fund and indeed  such  a cash fund was not 
suggested at the time. A target asset  mix for a low risk investor containing  equities,  
property, cash and fixed interest was put forward. 
However, when the application for the drawdown  was made  this had changed  to the choice  
of a cash fund. An illustration was produced which detailed a cash fund. I have not seen any 
persuasive evidence  as to exactly why this happened. 
Leven suggests that Mrs Ms personal situation dictated the change  but I have not seen 
evidence that would  substantiate that. The Diary of Events which Leven has supplied 
doesnt say that. Mrs M says that she was not told that the money was to be invested  in a 
cash fund and that wasnt her intention. Her understanding that the money  was to be 
invested in the way (previously) agreed. 
This is a particularly relevant factor with a drawdown, especially, as was the case here, 
when high levels of income are to be withdrawn. If the money is placed in cash  then the 
income will simply erode the capital  until it is exhausted. Investing  the money in the way 
originally intended  gives some opportunity for the growth potential of such  a fund to support 
the income being withdrawn  or maintain the income for longer. Given Mrs Ms tolerance to 
risk (which  dictated the fund choice) and level of withdrawals I think  it would be unlikely that 
her capital would not reduce even through investing  the money. But it would  have least  have 
the opportunity  to maintain her income for longer. I have not seen that this was explained to 
Mrs M.
As I have not seen  persuasive reason why Mrs M was placed in a cash  fund, or that she 
agreed to that or that it was explained  to her what that would mean in terms of capital 
reduction, my view is that the complaint should be upheld. I dont believe she would  likely,  
fully informed, have  opted for this route. As discussed, unless there was very good  reason  
why a cash fund had to be chosen, this is not an appropriate fund choice for a drawdown 
plan where significant levels of income  are being taken.
I have noted that Mrs M wished to increase the income in December 2014  (although  she 
says such conversations about  that were held with her husband). There  is a note on the 
Diary of Events:
warned about  erosion   not concerned about that
That directly  follows notes  about  increasing the income so it is likely this concerns the 
general issue of high levels of income  potentially eroding capital. That would be the case  
whatever fund was chosen; higher income  reduces the potential  of any fund to keep pace 
with the income  being taken. This is a distinct issue than the money being placed in a cash 
fund and it does  not necessarily indicate  that Mrs M was aware of the money being placed in 
the cash fund.  That is not mentioned. So I am not persuaded that this indicates that Mrs M 
was aware of the cash fund and was content with that choice, only that she was likely aware 
that larger levels of income could reduce her capital more quickly.  
        
fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs M should be put as closely as possible into the position  she would 
probably now be in if she had been  given  suitable  advice.
I take the view that Mrs M would  have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
Ref: DRN40746913what she would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mrs M's circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
what should  Leven do?
To compensate Mrs M fairly, Leven  must:
Compare the performance of Mrs M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Leven should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Leven should pay into Mrs M's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Leven is unable  to pay the total amount into Mrs M's pension  plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to her. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mrs M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. 
Pay Mrs M £200 for the inconvenience  and upset caused  to her.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Leven deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs M how much  has been  taken off. Leven should give Mrs M a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN40746914investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Aviva 
drawdownstill existsfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Leven should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Leven  totals  all those payments  and deducts  that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mrs M wanted  income with some  growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to her capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mrs M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared 
Ref: DRN40746915to take a small level of risk to attain her investment  objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mrs M into that position. It does not mean that Mrs 
M would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker  investment. Rather,  I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mrs M could have  obtained from investments suited 
to her objective and risk attitude.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Leven Financial Services  Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Leven Financial  Services Limited should  provide details  of its calculation to Mrs M in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
 ..
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4074691