K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc takes  direct  debit payments  for his credit card 
account too early  and did not respond  to him by letter about this.
background
Mr B says that direct debit payments are taken by Santander from his bank account before 
the due date for payments on his credit card. This can be up to three  days  early when the 
due date is a Monday.  And he is losing interest on this money. When he complained  
Santander said that it would acknowledge his complaint. But he had to call and was told it 
had already sent a letter  about this.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. Santander said it 
generally took direct debit  payments  the working  day before they were due. This was to 
allow for processing. And Mr Bs credit card statements showed the date the payment would 
be taken. He said that Santander had not made an error or acted unreasonably. He also 
thought it more likely than not that it had sent Mr B the original letter  about his complaint.
Mr B did not agree  and thought that we were  treating his complaint as frivolous. Santander  
had a duty of care to him and it was failing as it was taking money earlier  than it needed to. It 
did not have the right to do this just because  he was paying by direct debit. His payments 
were always  applied on the day they were  taken from his bank account.  The investigator had 
accepted it might be possible to take them on the actual due date. And Santander had said it 
was going to look into this. Mr B said he could not make a manual payment as the nearest 
branch for him was 15 miles  away. Mr B also thought that our investigator doubted his 
integrity by saying that Santander had sent him the letter. Santander  had told him it was 
going to be investigating the matter. He did not see how it can have said he did not accept 
the decision in a letter before it had even told him what that decision was.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont have a role in saying  what  processes Santander should follow.  Its explained that 
effectively it allows one clear working  day for processing a direct debit payment. I fully 
appreciate that, as Mr B has shown, direct  debit payments leave his bank account  and reach 
his credit card account on the same working  day. But I also note that on the credit  card 
statements under  how to make a payment  Santander states  that for say an online payment 
You should normally allow up to 1 working day for payment to be credited  to your account. 
This is the general  guidance and approach of Santander to ensure payments are received  in 
time
Santander also follows the industry  wide direct  debit guarantee by giving Mr B notice of the 
direct debit payment  and of when it is going  to be made each month. So Im afraid I dont 
have a basis to say it has made an error  or should change its processes. As Mr B rightly  
says, Santander  stated in its final response that it would be looking at this issue  more widely  
following his feedback. But it hasnt given any commitment to change things.
I dont believe our investigator meant to imply that Mr B had actually received Santanders 
original letter  of 19 January 2019  - when Mr B clearly said he hadnt. So Im sorry to hear 
Ref: DRN40899962that was the way Mr B interpreted the opinion about his complaint. The issue  is whether or 
not Santander had sent the letter. And I agree that based on Santanders  case notes it is 
most likely that it sent it. That does  not mean Mr B received it and I also find it most  likely he 
didnt. Or he wouldnt have needed to telephone again about his complaint. But Santander 
cannot reasonably  be responsible for any problems with the postal system.
Mr B expected an acknowledgment of his complaint to come  first. Instead  Santander  was 
able to complete  its investigation the next day and issue a final response. I accept that its 
statement in that letter that Mr B disagreed  with an assessment he had not seen was 
presumptuous  even it turned out to be a correct conclusion by Santander.
I know Mr B will be disappointed when I say that I dont have a reasonable basis to require 
Santander to do anything further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.  
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4089996