K821x#15complaint
Mr H and Ms T complain that they werent able to apply for further lending  against their 
mortgage with TSB Bank plc.
background
Mr H and Ms T had a fixed rate mortgage  with TSB. In June  2018  they asked TSB for further  
borrowing, but TSB told them it couldnt  accept  an application due to problems it was having 
with its IT systems.
Mr H and Ms T wanted  the funds for building work  which  had already begun, so they chose 
to move their mortgage elsewhere and apply for further borrowing at the same  time. TSB 
allowed Mr H and Ms T to do this without incurring  an early repayment charge (ERC).
Mr H and Ms T complained to our service about what happened. They said theyd been 
caused unnecessary  inconvenience in having to change  mortgage provider, had to use 
funds intended  for another  purpose  and had to rely on support from their family in the 
meantime. They also said that they wouldve switched lenders sooner to avoid this if TSB 
had given more  information about  when its systems  would be fixed.
Our investigator compared  the cost of their new mortgage over the time its rate was fixed  
against the cost of their TSB mortgage,  plus the additional  borrowing theyd  wanted  
(assuming their application had been successful), and concluded that they are not in a worse 
financial position than they would have  been had they been able to borrow  the extra money 
from TSB.  
He did, however, accept  that Mr H and Ms T had been inconvenienced by having to move 
their mortgage to a new lender. He said TSB should  pay £500 compensation for trouble and 
upset caused,  as well as £50 to cover  any associated  costs incurred. He also said that TSB 
should pay any other reasonable costs Mr H and Ms T incurred in moving  their mortgage, 
plus simple interest at 8%, if they could provide evidence  of that.
Mr H and Ms T agreed with our investigators  recommendations.  TSB also initially accepted 
them. But Mr H and Ms T subsequently gave us evidence of a £72 transfer  fee theyd had to 
pay for their new mortgage and which they wanted refunded. Our investigator thought this 
was fair, but TSB didnt.  TSB agreed  with all of our investigators recommendations, but not 
the £72 fee. It said that it considered its offer was sufficient and would not pay for any costs 
other than the £50 our investigator had recommended, so it asked  for an ombudsmans  
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
Like our investigator,  Im not persuaded that Mr H and Ms T are worse off financially overall  
as a result  of moving their mortgage,  but I accept that they were unnecessarily 
inconvenienced by having to do that. 
Ref: DRN40205882I think that the £500 compensation our investigator recommended is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances given the situation  Mr H and Ms T found themselves in. I also think  its fair 
that TSB pay Mr H and Ms T a sum for any associated costs  they incurred in moving  their 
mortgage elsewhere. 
I think it was fair for our investigator to recommend £50 for general  costs Mr H and Ms T 
incurred. This would include costs such as travel  expenses as well as the cost of multiple 
phone calls made. TSB agreed  with this.
Our investigator was also clear that he expected TSB to cover any other costs Mr H and Ms 
T incurred if they could  provide evidence. Mr H and Ms T have provided evidence of a 
transfer fee of £72 they were charged in arranging their new mortgage, and like our 
investigator, I think that should be paid to Mr H and Ms T, along with simple  interest at 8%. 
This is a cost they wouldnt  have had to pay but for TSBs  IT problems.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require TSB Bank plc to pay Mr H 
and Ms T;
-£500 compensation for the trouble, upset and inconvenience caused  by having to 
move their mortgage  elsewhere
-£50 to cover any administrative costs they incurred; and
-£72 to cover a transfer  fee they were charged  in arranging  their new mortgage,  plus 
simple interest at 8% from 23 October 2018, to the date that TSB Bank plc makes the 
payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019.
Stephen Trapp
ombudsman
* HM Revenue & Customs  requires TSB Bank plc to take off tax from this interest. TSB Bank plc must 
give Mr H and Ms T a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one. They may 
then be able to reclaim  the tax from the tax authorities if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4020588