K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI).  The original 
complaint related to two such policies; one from a 2003 sale and another  from 2007 (the 
policy was fully set up in 2008 after a free 6 months offer). Ill refer to these sale events  as 
the 2003  sale and 2007  sale. 
One Savings Bank plc (OSB) is responsible for the complaint  even though a different 
business sold the policy. Ill therefore  also refer mainly  to OSB for consistency.
Background
I issued a provisional decision about this case in July 2020  and I gave  the parties until 28 
August 2020 to reply with any further  information or evidence  they had. Weve  now had 
replies from both parties so I can issue my final decision.
As I outlined  in my provisional decision,  OSB  independently settled the 2003 sale complaint 
with Mr and Mrs D. However, in a change to what one of our adjudicators  had previously 
recommended, my provisional  decision was that the 2007 sale complaint should  not be 
upheld. 
This final decision is therefore only about the 2007 sale.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Having done this and looked  at the replies  we have now received, I am not upholding the 
2007 sale complaint.  Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs D.
As I previously explained, it seems  to me that there is little doubt  that Mr and Mrs D wanted 
MPPI because of the protection it generally  afforded. There is comprehensive evidence  that 
they found this type of cover financially reassuring and they specifically  asked for it to be 
added to their existing mortgages  in both 2003 and 2007. 
The policy now in question (the 2007 sale) was sold by way of postal  application following an 
enquiry from Mr and Mrs D about  amending the existing coverage,  held from 2003. In 
addressing the 2007 sale,  our adjudicator pointed to pre-existing medical conditions Mr and 
Mrs D each variously suffered from at the time. But I pointed  out that the 2007 sale was a 
non-advised postal sale,  where all the relevant MPPI quote(s) and details were first 
requested by Mr and Mrs D and the forms then filled out by them, most probably in their own 
time. OSB had no responsibility or involvement  in advising them or conducting an 
assessment about  the suitability of the cover for their overall circumstances and it was under 
no obligation  to do so. This is an important point to remember.
So, being  a non-advised  sale,  this restricted OSBs duty to explaining the policy  in a way that 
was clear, fair and not mis-leading. It was for Mr and Mrs D themselves to then decide 
whether they wanted to go ahead and buy it.
Ref: DRN42116752I explained previously  that the major  issue here is whether Mr and Mrs D were therefore 
reasonably made aware of the policy exclusions around pre-existing medical conditions. I 
thought they were made aware and Im afraid I still do think that. 
We know, for example,  that in February  2004, a claim attempt was made on the 2003  policy. 
This claim, as I understand  it, was unsuccessful due to the illness being pre-existing as 
defined in the policy rules.  No doubt to hear about  that rejection would have been 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs D but, by definition, having had this claim rejected, they must  
have known by the time of the 2007  sale that such exclusions existed and were featured  in 
the policy rules. Nevertheless, Mr and Mrs D went on to buy a further element of MPPI  cover 
afterwards  the 2007 sale.
As Ive said before, this leads me to determine whether I think the provision  of clear (or 
otherwise) information  occurred at the point of the 2007 sale. But I make  this determination 
already knowing  that policy exclusions had already been a feature of Mr and Mrs Ds 
relationship with OSB.  Ive also looked  at the written information accompanying the 2007 
sale. This does clearly point out that checking  the policy rules ought to be considered before 
committing oneself to buying the cover. I noted Mr and Mrs D were told the following, in 
writing:
IMPORTANT NOTE. Please refer to section 3 of the policy  document for full details 
of exclusions under this cover. This is because an exclusion or condition may stop 
you being able to claim or affect your ability  to claim".
They were  also sent a one-page summary  guide where the issue  of pre-existing medical 
conditions was specifically and indeed prominently set out. So, in my view, these things were 
clear enough  to warn  potential clients  that this type of insurance doesnt come  without at 
least some  exclusions. And because  this was a postal sale,  Mr and Mrs D were able to take 
time to study these  areas  to confirm it was still something they still wanted to buy. As Ive 
previously pointed out, the issue  of medical  policy exclusions had already significantly 
featured some years before the 2007 sale.
Mr and Mrs D previously raised  the fact that OSB knew  that certain existing medical  
conditions applied to them, yet it went on to sell them more  cover in 2007.  However,  again  
as Ive have pointed out, Im afraid  OSB  was under no obligation  to manage Mr and Mrs Ds 
affairs and it set out  clearly  in my view  that they ought to think  about aspects of the cover 
before going ahead and buying it. The MPPI they were sold in 2007 also covered many  
other eventualities Mr and Mrs D could have potentially claimed for, including  new illnesses 
that might  occur  after the 2007 sale and for unemployment.
Responses to my provisional decision
OSB agreed with my findings. 
Ive looked at the responses weve had from Mr and Mrs D and taken great care to 
understand where they are coming  from. 
Firstly, I can see our Service was asked  by Mr and Mrs D to request telephone traffic data 
on their behalf, between themselves and the business concerned. However, nothing they 
have mentioned alters my view and Im afraid simple  call data proving only that a call took 
place between a business and its client(s) some 13 years ago is very unlikely, in my view,  to 
address any of the relevant issues Ive set out about this case. 
Ref: DRN42116753Secondly, Mr and Mrs D also sent through to us a fairly large  bundle  of historic records  
theyd kept relating to their MPPI. This broadly  comprised of a quantity  of payment 
information (what they had paid for MPPI over several years), various copies  of medical 
records (concerning previous ill-health)  and some copied letters from OSB about the policy.  
Im very grateful to Mr and Mrs D and I recognise  the time and effort this will have taken. 
However, much of the information they have sent through post-dates the sale,  so has no 
relevance to the issues in question. I note one aspect of the documentation relates to an 
apparent further  denial  by the policy insurers to pay out on a claim under the policy  in 2014. 
But this was years after the sale and has no bearing  on whether or not the policy  was mis-
sold, which is the complaint we are dealing with here. Mr and Mrs D would have to 
specifically discuss that matter with OSB separately  if they feel their claim was unfairly 
rejected. A retrospective claim may be something  OSB is willing  to help them  address with 
the insurer.
Other information theyve  sent through, in my view only substantiates what  I have said 
before: that Mr and Mrs D were not advised   and  that they were  repeatedly  told that they 
should check this type of cover still fitted  their needs. I note from their own bundle, for 
example, that in February 2008 they were  sent a letter which  said by signing this letter  you 
are also confirming that you have read the policy document carefully to ensure that the cover 
still meets  your needs. Please  refer to section 3 of the policy document for full details of 
exclusions under  this cover. This is because an exclusion or condition  may stop you being  
able to claim or affect your eligibility to claim.
Summary and conclusions
Its clear that Mr and Mrs D feel theyve paid out money over several years for insurance  
they retrospectively arent happy about. But essentially, as I see things, theres  no dispute 
from them about the crux of this case, which is their wish to have an MPPI policy  to cover 
unexpected eventualities  and their knowledge  that existing medical conditions were clearly  
something they ought to think about  when  buying  this type of cover. There are many  
examples where  they were told to think  about  whether the cover  was still right for them.  Nor 
does there  seem any dispute  about this later MPPI  sale being  a non-advised one. So I stress  
again that it was for Mr and Mrs D themselves  to decide if they wanted this cover.  
Everything Ive seen points to Mr and Mrs D being aware of the costs involved,  what  the 
policy covered, the potential  complexity  around  pre-existing  medical  conditions  and a fairly 
regular engagement between Mr and Mrs D and OSB around certain policy  administration 
matters.
Finally, Mr and Mrs D asked also about unfair commission.  This of course relates  
specifically to a 2014 supreme court case about high percentages of profit share or 
commission deemed to be unfair.  Weve  previously looked at this matter and I commissioned 
a further check in the course of my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs Ds 2007  policy  did not 
ever rise above 50% in commission  so unfortunately  it falls outside the relevant rules  which  
were subsequently set out by the Financial Conduct Authority. This means they arent due 
any money back for unfair  commission.
My final decision
Ref: DRN42116754Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs D. However, I do not uphold  their 2007 complaint or 
to direct One Savings Bank plc to pay any compensation for the reasons outlined above.  
OSB doesnt have to pay any money  in respect  of mis-selling this policy,  as alleged. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my final decision before 3 October 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN42116755copy  provisional  decision
Ive looked at all the relevant  information about  this complaint. Based on what Ive seen so far Im 
considering departing substantially from the view of our adjudicator. Because of this, Im going  to 
issue a provisional  decision.  
Ill look at any more  comments or evidence  I get about this complaint by 28 August 2020. But unless 
these change  my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.  So the consumers 
cant be identified, Ill call them Mr and Mrs D.
Complaint
This complaint is about  mortgage  payment  protection insurance (MPPI). The original complaint 
related to two such policies;  one from a 2003 sale and another from 2007 (the policy was fully set up 
in 2008 after a free 6 months offer).  
Ill refer to these sale events as the 2003 sale and 2007 sale.
One Savings Bank  plc (OSB) is responsible for the complaint even though a different business sold 
the policy.  Ill therefore also refer mainly  to OSB for consistency.
Background
OSB has since independently settled the 2003 sale complaint  with Mr and Mrs D. Our adjudicator said 
the 2007  sale complaint also ought to be upheld,  but OSB  doesnt agree. Ive therefore  been asked to 
make an ombudsmans  decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, I am considering not upholding  the 2007 sale complaint.  Im very sorry to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs D and I appreciate this isnt what they will have  been hoping  for.
It seems to me that there  is little doubt that Mr and Mrs D wanted MPPI  because of the protection  it 
generally afforded. There is solid evidence that they found the cover financially reassuring and they 
asked for it to be added to their existing  mortgage in both 2003 and 2007. Theres evidence of 
correspondence between  the parties about the cover.  
The policy now in question (the 2007 sale)  was sold by way of postal application following an enquiry 
about amending the existing coverage, held from 2003. It seems Mr and Mrs D were  rearranging 
some of their financial affairs at the time.
In addressing the 2007  sale, our adjudicator pointed to pre-existing medical conditions Mr and Mrs D 
each suffered from at the time. Quite rightly, our adjudicator  noted that claiming under  the MPPI policy 
for these may not have been possible  because of certain policy exclusions relating to medical 
conditions that were already  known about at the time the MPPI was taken  out. Such features are 
common in policies like this.
I do understand the point being made and I certainly  wouldnt wish to imply  the medical  conditions 
werent matters  of concern  for both Mr and Mrs D. But the 2007  sale was a non-advised  postal sale 
where all the relevant details were  first requested by Mr and Mrs D and the forms then filled out by 
them, most probably in their own time. OSB  therefore had no involvement in advising them or 
conducting an assessment  about the suitability of the cover for their overall circumstances  and were 
Ref: DRN42116756under no obligation to do so. This therefore,  being a non-advised sale, restricted  OSBs duty to 
explaining the policy in a way that was clear, fair and not mis-leading. It was for Mr and Mrs D to then 
decide whether they wanted  to go ahead and buy it.
We do often uphold  cases where certain medical  exclusions have  a material effect on whether 
consumers would have  gone on to buy the cover had they been better  told about them. Accordingly,  
the major issue here is whether Mr and Mrs D were reasonably made  aware  of the policy exclusions 
around pre-existing  medical conditions. And I think they were.
We know, for example, that in February 2004, a claim  was made  on the 2003 policy. This claim,  as I 
understand it, was unsuccessful due to the illness being pre-existing as defined  in the policy  rules. No 
doubt to hear about that rejection would have been disappointing for Mr and Mrs D but, by definition, 
having had this claim rejected, they must have known  by the time of the 2007 sale that such  
exclusions existed and were  featured  in the policy rules. Nevertheless, Mr and Mrs D went on to buy a 
further element  of MPPI cover afterwards  the 2007 sale.
This leads me to determine whether I think the provision  of clear (or otherwise) information occurred 
at the point  of the 2007 sale. However,  I make this determination already knowing that policy  
exclusions had already been a feature  of Mr and Mrs Ds relationship with OSB. Ive also looked at 
the information accompanying  the 2007 sale. This does clearly point out that checking the policy rules  
ought to be considered  before committing oneself to buying the cover. I note Mr and Mrs D were told 
the following, in writing:
IMPORTANT NOTE. Please refer to section 3 of the policy  document for full details  of exclusions under 
this cover. This is because an exclusion or condition may stop you being able to claim or affect your 
ability to claim".
I think  they were  also sent a one-page summary guide where the issue of pre-existing medical  
conditions was specifically  set out. So, in my view,  these things are clear  enough to warn potential  
clients that this type of insurance doesnt come without at least some exclusions. And because this 
was a postal sale, Mr and Mrs D were able to take time to study these  areas to confirm it was still 
something they wanted to buy. As Ive also pointed out, the issue of medical policy  exclusions had 
already significantly featured some years before  the 2007 sale.
Mr and Mrs D have pointed out, quite  reasonably,  that OSB knew  that certain  existing medical 
conditions applied to Mr and Mrs D, yet it went on to sell them more  cover in 2007. However, Im 
afraid I disagree with the implication being made: OSB was under no obligation to manage Mr and 
Mrs Ds affairs and it pointed  out  clearly in my view  that they ought to think  about  aspects of the 
cover before going ahead and buying it. 
I should  also point out that the MPPI covered many other things Mr and Mrs D could have potentially 
claimed for, including new illnesses that might  have  occurred after the 2007 sale and for 
unemployment.
To summarise then, this was a non-advised sale. My current findings are that for many reasons, Mr 
and Mrs D were  aware that exclusions under the policy rules might be a very important consideration 
when thinking about buying  this type of cover.  Im afraid it was for Mr and Mrs D to decide whether or 
not to buy the policy and I can only assume they went on to do so because  of the other features I 
mentioned above.
I will of course consider  any more information Mr and Mrs D want to tell me about the medical issue,  
or indeed  anything else Ive said. And Ill consider it compassionately and with great care. But as 
things stand, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
My provisional decision
Im currently  not intending  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint or to direct One Savings  Bank plc to 
pay any compensation. 
Ref: DRN42116757I now ask that if either party wants to say anything more they should send in any information  or 
evidence before  28 August  2020.
Ref: DRN4211675