K821x#15complaint
Ms N complains about the settlement of a claim under a commercial insurance policy by 
Amtrust Europe Limited following  the theft of her mobile phone from her business premises.
background
Ms N (trading as company J) had a commercial insurance policy  with Amtrust, and made  a 
claim when  her mobile phone was stolen while she was at work.  During  the claim call, she 
told Amtrust  the phone  had been on the counter  when it was stolen  by a customer. 
Following a previous  complaint to this service which our ombudsman  upheld, Amtrust was 
directed to consider the claim. It subsequently  accepted thered been  a theft, but it said the 
claim was excluded because there  was no evidence  that force  had been  used  to gain entry  
to the premises, and Ms N had left it somewhere that others could see it, but she could not. 
Finally, it said Ms N had failed to take reasonable care of the phone.
Ms N argued it was obvious  her phone would have  to be used within  her business premises, 
therefore the term excluding the claim because the theft had occurred on the business 
premises without the use of force resulting in violence was unfair and unclear. She told 
Amtrust it should have  made it clear at the outset that the policy  wouldnt provide cover  if the 
phone was stolen  in such circumstances. She denied  shed  left her phone  where  she 
couldnt see it, maintaining it was within her line of vision, placed directly  in front of her on 
the mirrored stand while she worked.  She said shed momentarily  turned her head, arguing 
this didnt constitute the phone having been out of sight or unattended. 
Amtrust said Ms N had initially said the phone was stolen by a man who had walked in 
asking to book  an appointment  and when she wasnt looking,  he picked up the phone  and 
left. But in a later call, she said shed left the phone on a display in front of a mirror when a 
man came into the store and distracted her before  taking it. It stated it wouldnt have  been  
possible for a thief to have taken the phone if shed taken reasonable precautions to protect 
it from being stolen.  It said that leaving the handset  on a shelf in a shop with two entrances 
had increased  the risk of it being  stolen  to a level which was unacceptable  and not covered 
under the terms  of the policy. It reiterated  the policy excluded claims where the gadget  was 
knowingly left somewhere where you cant see it but others can and it is at risk of being lost, 
stolen or damaged. For example - in a restaurant  or a pub where you go to the toilet  or bar 
leaving your gadget on a table instead of taking it with you.
Ms N complained to this service in response to which Amtrust offered to pay her the 
equivalent of the cost to it to replace the phone  with a pristine replacement, which was £595. 
As she had already received £250 under her home insurance, this would be deducted from 
the settlement  and would  be subject to a £50 excess. But Ms N didnt accept  the offer, 
explaining shed  already  bought a new phone  because she needed  it to run her business.  
She said the policy provided  cover for £1,000,  therefore she was willing to accept £700 cash.
She argued  the section dealing with repair and replacement equipment has no reference to 
theft, and is relevant only when the gadget is deemed beyond economical repair and will 
therefore have  to be replaced,  which  wasnt the case. And she argued theres no reference  
to refurbished phones  in theft claims
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He accepted the policy 
excluded theft claims  where there was no evidence that force  had been used to gain entry 
Ref: DRN40502562into the premises, but he thought it was too restrictive and that it was reasonable for Ms N to 
believe her claim  would be covered. He also commented that a theft from a publicly 
accessible business premises was unlikely to ever result in damage to the premises and that 
a reasonable person would expect  the policy to provide cover in such  circumstances.
He was satisfied  that even  though Ms N had given two different accounts, they were broadly 
similar; shed taken  reasonable care and had been in reasonable proximity to her phone  to 
deter the threat  of it being stolen. Recommending  Amtrust should pay the claim in full, he 
noted the policy provided for an identical fully refurbished item, and that as Ms N had since 
bought a new phone,  it should pay cash based  on what  that would have cost.  The settlement 
would also include a deduction for the policy excess.
Neither party was satisfied and so the complaint has been referred to me to consider. 
Amtrust has explained the exclusion  is included  in the policy  wording and its argued its not 
the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service to decide if the terms and conditions are fair, 
rather, its our role to decide if they have  been correctly and fairly applied,  and terms are 
often restrictive because  underwriters dont want to pay for certain risks.  Its also argued the 
Consumer Act 2015 clarified that a policy term cant be assessed for fairness as long as it is 
transparent and prominent, and our investigator is acting ultra vires.
Ms Ns explained that because  Amtrust declined the claim, she took out a new phone  
contract, and she feels it should cover that cost. Shes also said she suffered distress and 
inconvenience as a result  of Amtrusts  handling  of the claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy excludes  theft claims where the gadget has been stolen from any premises  
unless force, resulting in damage to the premises,  was used to gain entry or exit. It also 
excludes theft claims where  you knowingly  leave your gadget somewhere where you cant  
see it but others can and it is at risk of being lost, stolen or damaged.  For example - in a 
restaurant or a pub where you go to the toilet or bar leaving  your gadget on a table instead  
of taking it with you,  and damage  or destruction caused by, contributed  to or arising  from a 
lack of reasonable care from you or your immediate family.
Im satisfied the exclusions are clearly  worded and that they were featured  within the policy  
documents which she ought reasonably  to have read.
Ive considered whether Amtrusts decision  to exclude the claim on the basis  there was no 
force resulting in damage to the premises is fair, and Ive concluded its not. This type of 
exclusion is intended to cover situations where  business premises have been left unsecure,  
enabling a thief to gain entry  without the use of force. The circumstances of the theft  that it 
was stolen from Ms Ns place of business  while it was open  meant the thief just walked in 
without ever needing to cause  any damage,  so I dont think  it would be fair or reasonable for 
the exclusion to be applied here.
When she first contacted Amtrust, Ms N told it the phone had been stolen from the counter. 
In her claim  form,  she said when I was not looking he picked up my mobile when I was busy  
with my client  and he left and in later correspondence she also said the phone was on the 
display in front of the mirror where  I was sitting when the man came in. I accept the 
Ref: DRN40502563accounts might be at odds, but this isnt to an extent that I think shes  telling lies. In any 
event, I dont consider  that in any scenario, Amtrust has shown Ms N failed to take 
reasonable care of her phone, or that shed knowingly left it where she couldnt see it. 
I accept she probably wasnt looking at the phone  at the moment  it was stolen, but its 
unreasonable to suggest  she couldnt take her eyes off it, especially in circumstances where 
she was close to it in an environment she felt was reasonably secure. Because  of this I dont 
consider the decision to decline  the claim on the basis that Ms N failed to take reasonable 
care of the phone or that she left it where  she couldnt see it was fair.
Amtrust has argued its not our role to comment on whether the terms and conditions  are 
fair, but I havent  done that. Rather, Ive considered  whether the application  of the exclusions 
to this claim was fair, and I dont think that it was. Consequently, I think the decision to 
decline the claim was unfair and that Amtrust should now settle the claim. 
Ive considered how the claim can most  fairly be settled and I note the policy  states if you 
suffer theft of your gadget we will replace it. If the claim had been  settled before Ms N had 
bought a new phone,  Amtrust would  have paid £595  for a replacement, so I think the fairest  
resolution would be for it to pay the equivalent of what it would have cost to provide a 
replacement phone, less the £250  she received from her home insurer and £50 excess. The 
settlement should  also include a payment of 8% interest from the date of the claim.
Ms N understands she wont be compensated for the replacement  phone because it was a 
phone she already owned.  Shes explained she paid for a separate  SIM, but I dont consider 
she should be reimbursed  for that because she couldve sought a replacement SIM from her 
phone provider. 
Shes said she has lost business as a result of having been without a phone  for a week,  but 
she hasnt provided  any evidence to support this. Further, I understand the phone was 
critical to her business, but shes said she already  had the second phone  and I consider  she 
could reasonably have obtained a replacement SIM sooner. Shes also said the replacement  
phone was inferior to the original and this affected her business, but I cant  fairly hold 
Amtrust responsible for her decision to use an inferior phone  once her claim had been 
declined.
Finally, Ive considered  the impact Amtrusts decision  to decline the claim had on Ms N, 
including the inconvenience she experienced, and I think it should  pay her £50 
compensation.
Ref: DRN40502564my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Amtrust Europe  Limited to: 
pay Ms N £295 cash for the cost of a replacement  phone,  plus 8% simple interest 
from the date of the claim,
pay Ms N £50 compensation to be paid within 28 days  of the date on which we tell 
Amtrust Europe Limited Ms N accepts my final decision (if she does).  If it pays later 
than this it must also pay interest* on the compensation from the date my final 
decision to the date of payment, at 8% a year simple.
If Amtrust Europe Limited considers its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold 
income tax from this interest, it should  tell Ms N how much its taken off. It should also give 
her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4050256