K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N say that they were mis-sold a regular  premium mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy by Bank  of Scotland plc (BOS).
background
During a meeting in 1990 Mr and Mrs N applied for a mortgage. At the same time they took 
out a PPI policy in Mr Ns sole name to protect  their repayments if Mr N lost his job or was 
unable to work due to accident or sickness. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld as she didnt think  there  was 
enough information to conclude the policy wasnt presented as optional and thought it 
provided a suitable benefit. 
Mr and Mrs N disagree.  They say they were not asked if they wanted the policy.
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
The policy was sold during a meeting. BOS had to make it clear  the PPI was optional  and 
not a condition of the mortgage. Mr and Mrs N say this wasnt done  but havent  given  us 
much detail about what was said at the meeting to make them  think this. And BOS havent 
been able to give us any of the sales documentation from the time. But I think  thats 
understandable as the PPI was sold almost 30 years ago. So Ive relied more on what we 
know about the type of PPI products that were  sold at the time and what I think  is most likely 
to have happened.
Only Mr N was covered by the policy but both Mr and Mrs N were jointly responsible  for the 
mortgage. If PPI wasnt optional I wouldve expected both parties to the mortgage would 
have to be covered.  So I think it is likely there would have  been some discussion about PPI 
and what level of cover they wanted  and that they chose to cover  Mr N only.  
To be fair to Mr and Mrs N Im treating  this as an advised sale  this puts them  in the best 
position. What  this means is that BOS not only had to provide information  about PPI in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs N could make an informed choice 
about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to recommend PPI that the policy  
was suitable for Mr Ns needs  and circumstances.
I dont know if BOS  took all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr N for the following  reasons:
From what we know of the policies sold he was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look 
like he wouldve  been caught  by any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions 
of the policy which  couldve  made  it difficult to make  a successful claim.
Ref: DRN43340502At the time of the sale Mr N says he was entitled  to some sick pay and says his family 
couldve helped  make their mortgage repayment if he couldnt work.  But there is no 
guarantee his family would be able to help and the policy  wouldve paid out on top of 
any work  benefits and covered their mortgage payments for up to a minimum of 12 
months per claim if Mr N was too sick to work  or lost his job.
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs N in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think Mr and Mrs N wouldve been interested  in protecting them. I also 
note that Mr and Mrs N have told us they did in fact have a successful claim on the 
policy when Mr N was made redundant - so it was of use to them.
There was nothing  to suggest  that the policy wasnt affordable  to Mr and Mrs N at the 
time. And if they decided they no longer wanted the policy  they could cancel  it. 
I also need to consider  whether BOS  gave Mr and Mrs N information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. I dont know if BOS gave all the information as it 
shouldve. But for the same reasons  that the policy  was suitable and based on what  Mr and 
Mrs N have told us about their circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out 
the PPI policy  if theyd been given  all the proper information at the time of sale.
This means  Mr and Mrs N arent any worse off as a result of any wrong doing by BOS.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint against Bank of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 October  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4334050