K820x#14complaint
Mr W says MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr W bought the policy  in 1995 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. He applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  through the post. 
At the time,  Mr W has told us he was employed as a sales man. He has said he would  only 
have been entitled to statutory sick pay and didnt have any other means of repaying his 
credit card should he be unable to work.  Mr W has said he was in good  health at the time of 
the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for life, accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  3% of Mr Ws credit card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim or clear the balance (up to a maximum of £15,000)  in the event of his 
death. At the time,  it cost 65p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance.  The premium 
would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract interest.  
MBNA has sent us screenshots  to show that the credit card account  closed  in March 2007.
Mr Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ws representative says:
MBNA failed to meet the sales  standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr W wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ws 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means MBNA should  have  
told Mr W about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means MBNA should  have  explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr W and the impact 
they would  have had on his chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Mr W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN48730492Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in March  2007. That means the unfair relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like MBNA  at the time.  So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and these 
Ref: DRN48730493other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ws case. 
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
MBNA was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If MBNA  gave advice, whether it advised  Mr W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether MBNA gave  Mr W sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr W suffered  loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr W and 
MBNA, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr W know he had a choice?
MBNA had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
MBNA has provided a copy of the application  Mr W completed by post.  As it was completed 
by post Mr W would likely have completed  this in his own time at his own pace.  On it theres 
Ref: DRN48730494a separate section clearly titled Payment Protection  Insurance. After  a brief explanation of 
the cover  there is the option to tick a yes or no box. Mr W has ticked the yes box. He 
could have chosen to tick the box no if he didnt want it. And Ive not seen anything set out 
in the wording of the form which would have likely made Mr W think  he had to choose the 
PPI in order to take out his card. Mr W has also signed the form and dated it. As he was 
taking on a new financial commitment, I think he would have likely read the form he was 
signing and realised he was enrolling in the PPI scheme, knowing he could refuse  to take it 
out if he didnt  want it. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr W knew  the policy  was optional 
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did MBNA  provide advice?
MBNA say that advice  wasnt  provided during this sale. And as it was taken out through the 
post and there is nothing  to suggest  any contact  with an MBNA adviser when  Mr W 
completed the form, I think thats right. 
This means  MBNA didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr W. Instead, it had to 
give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  Mr W to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
MBNA has provided us with Mr Ws application  form showing that PPI had been selected.  It 
has also provided a copy of the paperwork  it says he wouldve received, including  the policy 
terms and conditions   which  I accept on a balance of probabilities   applied to policies like 
Mr Ws. 
Looking at the documentation provided to Mr W at the time, I dont think MBNA  gave  Mr W 
the information he fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. I can see the application form described the PPI policy as 
providing cover against the effects of todays unsteady job market  and lifes unpredictable 
events. It also informed  Mr W that the policy cost 65p per £100 of his outstanding balance .
The information provided would have given Mr W a broad  sense of what  the policy  covered.  
But it was MBNAs responsibility  to draw to Mr Ws attention the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision. 
Im not persuaded MBNA did enough to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of 
the policy was made  clear  to Mr W, including  the need to maintain premiums  during  a claim 
or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  I cant  see that MBNA  adequately 
drew to his attention the main provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
So I dont  think MBNA gave Mr W sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including drawing his 
Ref: DRN48730495attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ws representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr W about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr W has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that MBNA  ought to have done either.  
what effect did MBNAs shortcomings  have on Mr W? To what extent did Mr W suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that MBNA didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr W. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr W suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr W would have  
still taken out the policy,  had MBNA done things properly. 
Mr W says he wouldnt  have taken it out and believes  that I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr W had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr W chose  to take this policy out. So I consider  that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr W thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr W has suffered  any loss or detriment. 
Ref: DRN48730496In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr W ought reasonably to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But, I 
accept that MBNA didnt  make clear the on-going cost information. So while  Mr W didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to 
take out the policy on and found  acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr W thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
Although the policy document  MBNA has provided is not complete, from what I have  
seen its very likely the policy excluded claims relating to medical conditions with any 
symptoms that Mr W knew about or ought  to have known about before the start date 
of the policy; 
I also think its likely the policy excluded claims relating to mental health conditions  
and it contained  limitations on claims relating to back conditions placing more  
onerous evidential  requirements to support  a claim on those grounds. I say this as a 
policy document I have seen  from later in 1995  contains this exclusion and limitation 
and from my experience  these policy terms often did not change very much  between 
policy documents;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr W 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr W be unable to 
do his occupation  or any other  occupation or to perform work for which he would be 
qualified to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr W pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude that the policy  
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr W from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. he was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr W didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems. In this case the 
policy excluded claims for mental health conditions and the steps required to make  a 
disability claim for back related conditions were more onerous than Mr W might reasonably 
have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a disability claim 
without having  to provide some evidence to support  that claim. And while this exclusion and 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr W 
from taking out the policy,  Mr W, in his circumstances, still had some good reasons to take it 
out.
Ref: DRN48730497If Mr W had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable  to do his 
occupation but any occupation or to perform  work  which  in the insurers view he might 
reasonably be qualified to do it might  have played into his thinking about what  he would do. 
And I accept  it may have  given him pause for thought  although given Mr Ws 
circumstances and the limited other means  he had to make his repayments if he wasnt  
working, on balance,  I still think he would have been  interested in taking  out the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr W would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently  close to 
what he thought  he was getting, and he didnt have any means of meeting his credit card 
repayments if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness and, he thought,  
redundancy. And in those circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that he would 
have taken out the policy in any event.  
Mr Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr W would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr W 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr W in the position he would have  been  in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude MBNA  should pay Mr W compensation, as that would put him in 
Ref: DRN48730498a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr W thinks MBNA misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
MBNAs statements  misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why MBNA failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  MBNA gave Mr W, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1995 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ws representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find MBNA negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr W and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that MBNA had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr W in a better position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2021.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4873049