K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Bank of Scotland  plc didnt make a refund when she raised a direct  
debit indemnity. Shes also unhappy that her contactless debit card was declined.
background
Direct debit  indemnity
In November 2018 Ms M called BOS to request an account balance. During the call, the call 
handler told Ms M she had a direct debit to a third party about to debit  the account.
Ms M didnt recognise the direct debit  or the third party.  On further investigation  the call 
handler told Ms M the amount wasnt a regular monthly payment but occurred once every  6 
months. The call handler told Ms M she could  raise a direct debit indemnity and explained 
the process. The call handler told Ms M that the bank would credit funds to her account and 
raise an indemnity with the third party. The call handler also told Ms M that if the payment 
turned out to be genuine then the monies would  be refunded to the third party.
Ms M attempted to raise  a direct debit indemnity on two occasions.  Both were  unsuccessful 
because the bank said it felt that the dispute  was between Ms M and the third party and 
therefore not covered by the direct debit guarantee.
Ms M attempted to raise  a direct debit indemnity a third time. On this occasion she provided 
an email from the third party who confirmed she should raise an indemnity and that it had no 
claim on the funds. Ms Ms third attempt was successful and the funds were credited to her 
account the same day.
When Ms M complained, the bank acknowledged  that it hadnt  acted correctly and awarded 
Ms M £50 compensation and £42 call costs.
Contactless card
In December 2018 Ms M contacted BOS  to explain that her contactless card hadnt worked 
when she tried to use it, despite the fact that there  were sufficient funds  in her account.
The call handler explained  that there was a security  measure which meant  that when a 
contactless card was used repeatedly with no chip and PIN transactions, the contactless 
feature was blocked until the PIN was inputted.
Ms M was unhappy because she felt she should have been made aware  of this security 
measure. She said shed been  caused  embarrassment when the card was declined.
During the call Ms M was offered £25 compensation.  She didnt say in the call whether she 
accepted this or not.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. In relation to the direct debit indemnity, he said 
the bank hadnt done what  it said it would do but that the compensation awarded for the 
error was sufficient. In relation to the contactless card, the investigator said it was 
reasonable for the bank  to install security measures and although it would  have been  helpful 
if the bank had told Ms M about the measures, it wasnt possible for this service to compel 
the bank to do so.
Ref: DRN42673772Ms M didnt agree. She said (in relation to the direct debit indemnity) that the call handler 
had promised on two separate occasions  that funds would be credited  immediately. Ms M 
felt the bank had acted  unprofessionally in not informing her why her claim had been 
declined.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Direct debit  indemnity
Ive looked at the system notes provided by the bank. Ive also listened to the call recordings 
of the conversations  between Ms M and the bank  in November  2018.
Generally, when a customer raises  a direct debit indemnity claim, the bank will comply  with 
the claim and refund  the monies. In Ms Ms case, this is what the call handler indicated the 
bank would do.
This service asked BOS  to explain why it didnt refund the monies. It says that on 
investigation, it appeared that the refund  was being requested for a reasons not covered by 
the direct  debit guarantee. Because of this it referred Ms M to the originator.
BOS says that although Ms M said she didnt recognise the direct debit, it had been active 
and unchallenged since 2008.  On investigation,  BOS says it took the view that the direct  
debit indemnity didnt apply.  This was the outcome of the first two claims.
On the third occasion,  Ms M provided  an email from the originator which showed there 
wasnt a dispute.  BOS allowed the claim.
I understand why Ms M is frustrated by the experience. She was told that the funds  would be 
credited immediately and they werent.  Ms M had a legitimate expectation that the bank  
would behave in a certain way and it didnt. I dont think  the bank made an error in 
investigating and ultimately declining the first two claims  as it has discretion to do so as part 
of the investigation process.  But I think the bank could have done more  to keep Ms M 
advised of what  was happening. If the bank hadnt  already offered and paid compensation I 
would be asking it to do so. Im satisfied,  however,  that the compensation already paid to Ms 
M is fair and reasonable.
Contactless card
I understand why Ms M is unhappy  that she wasnt told about the security feature. The bank 
has explained that it doesnt  make  information about how often a PIN entry is required freely 
available. I dont think this is an unreasonable position for the bank to take  if this type of 
information was available  there  is a risk that the effectiveness of the measure would be 
negated.
Ref: DRN42673773I can see that general information about  this aspect of contactless cards  is available on the 
banks website, so Im satisfied that Ms M would have been aware (in general terms) that the 
feature existed.
I understand how upsetting it is when a card is declined and I understand Ms Ms frustration  
as she had sufficient  funds in her account.  But I also think its reasonable for the bank to 
have security measures in place to protect  customers against potential  fraud.  On balance, I 
dont think the bank has acted unfairly by not telling Ms M that she could only use the 
contactless facility  a certain  number of times. But I think the bank were right to acknowledge 
the embarrassment caused  to Ms M and in this respect I think the offer of £25 is reasonable. 
I understand that this offer remains open  should  Ms M choose  to accept it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4267377