K822xcomplaint
Mrs S is unhappy with a delay caused  by Santander  UK Plc when transferring money into 
her stocks and shares Individual Savings  Account (ISA).
background 
Mrs S has an ISA with Santander.  Last November, she wanted  to invest  £20,000  which had 
been released from her pension. She called Santander to make the transfer from one of her 
other Santander accounts,  but was informed  that due to technical trouble her transfer might 
take up to five weeks. Within the following weeks, Mrs S spent £7,000  of the money  on direct 
debits and bills. 
Mrs S made a complaint as she felt the delay led to financial  upheaval and arguments  within  
the family,  which worsened  her stress and anxiety. She felt that had the transfer been made 
on time, she would  have had the £20,000  invested  for the future,  rather than the £13,000  
which she has now committed to another ISA. But Santander didnt agree they were 
responsible for the spent money and instead,  apologised for the technical issues.
Unhappy with this, Mrs S asked for our help.  One of our adjudicators  looked  into what had 
happened and while he didnt think Santander  were responsible  for Mrs S spending £7,000, 
he did think they ought to acknowledge the technical problems  Santander agreed to 
compensate Mrs S with £100 for the inconvenience.  
But Mrs S didnt agree  she felt she was entitled  to some of the money back  and that £100  
wasnt sufficient as she hadnt had a reason for the delay  so her case was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I recognise Mrs Ss 
strength of feeling,  I agree with what our adjudicator said for broadly the same reasons.
It is not in dispute  that  for some technical reason  or another   Santander couldnt transfer 
Mrs Ss money into her ISA when she asked. For that inconvenience, Santander has agreed  
to compensate her with £100. I think that is a fair sum to apologise for the delay. 
But I dont agree Santander  is responsible for Mrs S having spent £7,000 of the sum before 
it was invested  elsewhere. She says the money  went towards bills and direct debits  so if 
Mrs S didnt use this money  for those reasons, shed have had to use other money  or miss 
making payments  on time and face the implications  of that. Shes also had the benefit of that 
money, so it wouldnt be right to return it to her. Mrs S later invested in an ISA with another  
company, but she could  also have done this sooner than she did if she wanted the money  in 
an account that felt less accessible  to her. 
It is for Mrs S to manage her finances, not Santander  just because  the money  was 
accessible didnt mean she had to use it and doesnt mean Santander is responsible  for her 
using it. Mrs S bears the responsibility  of managing  her own money and she cannot  transfer  
this onto Santander.
Ref: DRN42030582my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should  settle this complaint as they have agreed 
to do, by compensating Mrs S with £100. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4203058