K820x#14complaint
Mr P, as representative of the estate of his late father, Mr E, complains that                       
The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op)  allowed  Mr E to set up a joint account with his 
communication aid/carer,  when he thinks it shouldnt have done.  
background
Following Mr E sadly passing away, Mr P had a meeting with the Co-op, in branch, to 
discuss accounts his late father held with the Co-op.
During the meeting, in May 2018,  Mr P was told his father held a credit  card (with nothing  
due) and a current account,  with a balance of around £7,000. The Co-op  also told Mr P that, 
since 2016, the current account  had been  held in joint names. The joint account had been 
formed from a sole account,  that Mr E had previously held.
Mr P raised questions in the meeting about  the joint account being set up.  He was 
concerned that the account  had been  allowed to be set up, as the party  who had been 
added was Mr Es carer/communication  aid, who Ill refer to as Mrs W.  Mr  P explained  that 
his father  was deaf and blind, and seriously  ill at the time the joint account  was set up. Mr P 
has told us during this meeting he asked for the joint account to be frozen, as he was 
concerned of fraud, and that Co-op agreed to this and made a note on the account. 
Mr P has told us he also requested copies  of statements from the account, so that he could 
look into the transactions that had been made  on the account. Mr P contacted the Co-op 
again in early June 2018,  as he hadnt  received any statements and spoke to a manager.  
During this conversation Mr P was told Mr E had also held a savings account and it 
appeared Mrs W had transferred the money  from the savings account  to her own account, 
then into the joint account, before Mr E passed away.
Mr P questioned with the manager  why he hadnt  been told about  the savings account, but 
was advised it had been closed prior to the initial meeting hed had in the branch   so it 
wouldnt have been mentioned during that meeting. Mr P has said he was told to contact 
Action Fraud to register a possible fraud claim.
Towards the end of June 2018,  Mr P received a letter  from Co-op showing a balance on the 
joint current account of around £950. This was about £6,000 less than the balance Mr P was 
told during his meeting in May, and at this point he still hadnt received copies of the 
statements. 
Mr P queried this balance  with the Co-op  and was told the balance  had been  transferred out 
of the joint account by Mrs W. Mr P asked  the Co-op  how he would get this money  back, due 
to the potential fraud on the account.   Mr P told Co-op this was his late fathers money, not 
Mrs Ws, and he asked the Co-op how, as a carer, Mrs W was able to open  a joint account 
with his father.  Mr  P feels that as Mrs W hadnt  paid any money into the account, she is a 
trustee only and that the account should have been frozen until the potential  fraud  had been 
investigated.  Mr P considered the account shouldnt have  been  allowed to have been 
opened in the first place.
Mr P complained to the Co-op and it issued its final response on 18 October  2018.   It said 
that as the account was in joint names, when Mr Ps father  passed  away,  as per the Terms  
and Conditions of the account,  the account  would automatically become a sole account for 
Ref: DRN49736552the remaining  joint account holder.  But it said, as Executor of his fathers  estate, Mr P 
should have been told it was a joint account  and what the balance was.
The Co-op said it thought its advisor, during the meeting Mr P had with the Co-op in May 
2018, was correct in advising Mr P to take the matter up with the police. It didnt agree that 
Mr P should  have been put in contact  with its internal fraud  team sooner than he was, or that 
if it had of done, it would have changed the actions  which were  carried out by the joint 
account holder.
The Co-op said it does  have policies in place  to protect customers from fraud, however it 
wasnt able to share specific details with Mr P as they are commercially sensitive. The Co-op 
said as Mrs W was a joint account  holder, she had authorisation to carry out the transactions  
she did, so it couldnt help Mr P further in trying to recover funds.  The  Co-op didnt agree it 
had done anything wrong, by allowing the money to leave the account. The Co-op also didnt 
think Mr P would have been  told the account would have been frozen, as this wasnt  
something that was possible. 
The Co-op added that its policies and procedures would  have  been  followed when Mr Es 
request was given  to change the account to joint names and so it didnt think it had made a 
mistake in setting up the joint account.  The Co-op said it did have reasonable adjustments in 
place for Mr E, so he would have been aware  this was happening.  Overall the Co-op  was 
happy that it was Mr Es request  to have the account  put in joint names. 
With regards to the delay in statements being  sent to Mr P. The Co-op said as the account  
was in joint names, it shouldnt have issued  statements to Mr P, without the consent of the 
joint account holder,  so this should never have been  promised. As the Co-op  felt Mr Ps 
expectations werent set out correctly, during the meeting he had in May 2018, it offered £75 
compensation.  But overall the Co-op  considered  this was a civil matter  between Mr P and 
the joint account holder.
Mr P then brought  his complaint to our service  and one of our investigators looked  into 
things. Our investigator explained that on balance  she wasnt able to say the Co-op shouldnt 
have allowed the account to be set up as a joint account, or that it did anything wrong in 
allowing Mrs W to withdraw funds from the account.
Our investigator reviewed  the overall  customer service  that Co-op provided and felt it could 
have explained  in more detail what the limitations  were on what  information it could provide 
Mr P about  the account, due to it being  in joint names.  She thought  at times Mr P had been 
misled, as the Co-op shouldnt have agreed  to requesting statements on a joint account and 
Mr P shouldnt have been  told the account would be frozen, as Mrs W was entitled to carry 
out activity on the account as she was a joint account holder. Due to this and Co-op not 
responding within timescales, our investigator recommended Co-op increase its offer of 
compensation to £150 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr P disagreed with our investigators  view.   In summary he didnt consider Co-ops  records 
were up to date with his fathers needs and it was not looking after his best interests in 
opening the joint account. 
As Mr P disagreed, the complaint has now been  passed to me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN49736553my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying  how sorry I am to hear of Mr Es death. I realise this will have been  
a difficult time for Mr P bringing  this complaint on behalf  of his fathers estate and I 
understand his strength of feeling. 
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in less detail  than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made  by all the parties  
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this.
I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr P, but having  thought  very carefully 
about Co-ops actions,  I cant  fairly or reasonably  say it made  an error in allowing  Mr E to set 
up a joint account  with Mrs W - or that it didnt take into account Mr Es best interests. I also 
dont think there was any bank error in allowing Mrs W to withdraw funds from the joint 
account she was a party to. 
As our investigator explained in her view, in order for me to be satisfied that it wasnt Mr Es 
intention to have  a joint account with Mrs W, Id need persuasive evidence  that this was the 
case, or that he didnt understand what he was agreeing to. 
In this case, the evidence Ive seen shows Co-op has followed its processes in allowing the 
joint account to be set up and there isnt any evidence that persuades me Mr E didnt 
understand what he was agreeing to.  In  the absence of this evidence I cant  fairly  make a 
finding that Co-op has made an error in setting up the account.  Even though I understand 
Mr P disagrees that Mr E would have agreed  to having a joint account  there  is not enough 
evidence to suggest that it wasnt Mr Es wish to set up a joint account  or that it wasnt  his 
intention to do so.  Because of this I cant fairly award financial loss to Mr Es estate as a 
result of Co-ops actions.
I understand Mr P has said that Co-op didnt take into account  Mr Es vulnerabilities when 
setting up the account. I can see that Co-op did have an adjustment  in place  for Mr E, to 
send larger  font statements.  So with this Im persuaded there would have been a 
conversation with Mr E at some point to discuss his needs for these to be added.  Im also 
conscious Mr P has explained  that Mr E, up to his death, appeared meticulous with his 
record keeping. Considering all of this I cant fairly or reasonably say that Mr E wouldnt have 
been aware of or have the capacity to understand what he was agreeing  to when the joint 
account was set up.
Ive seen there is some disagreement about  what was discussed when Mr P visited the 
branch to discuss his fathers account.   Mr P has said he told the Co-op the joint account 
should be frozen, and Co-op agreed  to this. The testimony from the branch staff indicates  
they understood the bereavement process well and wouldnt have been able to agree  to the 
accounts being frozen.
Ive considered that during this meeting, it was also agreed that Mr P would be sent copies 
of statements from the joint account  which he shouldnt have been without the consent of 
the joint account holder. So I think its plausible that Mr P was told the account would be 
frozen.
Ref: DRN49736554Ive looked at the Terms and Conditions of the joint account. From these  I can see it says if 
one of the account holders dies, the remaining account holder(s) can continue  to operate  the 
account. With this in mind, as the joint account holder, Mrs W would  have been  entitled to 
continue to run the account as she pleased. So while  the Co-op may have made in error in 
setting Mr Ps expectations about  freezing  the account, it doesnt follow that I can award the 
estate a refund of the monies Mrs W went on to withdraw  as the terms of the account show 
she was entitled  to withdraw them.   
 
Overall, I cant fairly or reasonably say the Co-op  was wrong in allowing the joint account  to 
be set up or allowing Mrs W to withdraw funds.  For the same reasons as Ive explained  
above, this would also be the case of the savings account that Mr P has referred to, which I 
can also see was held in joint names  with Mrs W.  
Ive gone on to think about  the service Co-op provided. I do think  the service the Co-op 
provided fell short of what I would have expected.  It shouldnt  have told Mr P that the 
account could  be frozen,  nor should it have agreed to send Mr P copies of statements.  I can 
also see there was a delay in it responding to Mr C.  With this in mind  I think  the £150 
trouble and upset  our investigator recommended is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I do understand this isnt the outcome Mr P would  have  hoped for and that it will be 
frustrating to have  waited so long for this answer.   But having considered everything I cant 
fairly or reasonably say Co-op were wrong to open  the joint account and that Mr E wasnt 
aware of what he was agreeing to.  So I cant fairly ask Co-op to pay the money that Mrs W 
withdrew to the estate.
I can see Mr P has said he may consider taking matters through  the courts.  Mr P doesnt  
have to accept  my final decision,  and if he doesnt  it wont be binding  on Mr Es estate or the 
Co-op. Subject  to any time limits  or other restrictions a court might impose, Mr Ps right to 
pursue a legal  remedy  wont  have been  prejudiced by our consideration of this complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask The Estate of 
Mr W G Elliston to accept  or reject  my decision before 22 March  2021.
Stephen Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4973655