K822xcomplaint
R has complained  about Saga Services Limiteds  actions  in connection with her motor  
insurance policy.
background 
R had a motor  policy  with Saga. She was stopped  by police who impounded her car and 
charged her for driving while uninsured. Saga accepted that it had sent a letter telling  R her 
policy had lapsed  to her previous address. So R wasn't aware that she was uninsured. 
Saga paid R £310 to cover the costs of getting  her car back from the police pound. It also 
wrote her a letter to give to the court to explain the situation.  But there was a mistake  with its 
letter and, initially, the court didn't accept  it and adjourned the hearing. R had to ask Saga for 
another letter. Saga offered R a further £100  compensation to address her distress  and 
inconvenience because  of that.
R brought her complaint  to us. Our adjudicator didn't think  Saga had dealt with her fairly. So 
he said it should:
pay R total compensation of £500 (that was a further £400 on top of the £100  
previously offered);  and
pay her a further £288 to cover her additional expenses because  of Sagas mistakes. 
The adjudicator  said it should add simple  interest to that sum.
Saga accepted the adjudicators recommendations. R didn't think  those went far enough so 
the complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it 
and my award for redress will be the same as the adjudicators recommendations.
In bringing this complaint R has made  a number of points but in this decision I will focus on 
what I see as being the key outstanding issues appropriate for me to address now.
Sagas accepted that it was its mistake  that led to R being charged for driving without 
insurance. So I don't intend to revisit the events of how that happened. Instead  Ill focus  on 
whether or not Saga has done enough  to put things right.
I've seen that, after R told Saga  that the police  had impounded  her car it did initially take a 
number of steps to try and sort matters out. Those included paying  R the initial charge for 
recovering her car from the police  pound and for the costs  of hiring a car in ordered to get to 
the pound, which was some considerable distance away.  But as well as the inconvenience 
of recovering her car, R was charged  with an offence and had to make a court appearance. 
And I can understand that must have been embarrassing and unsettling  for her. And 
although Saga wrote  her a letter to give to the court, because that wasn't clear, the court  
didn't initially  accept it. And that resulted in the hearing being  adjourned and the court telling 
R shed need  to make a second court appearance. Although I understand that the court 
dismissed the charges I can understand how upsetting R found the whole process. 
Ref: DRN42462242I've thought very carefully about  whether Saga has done enough to put things right. As I've 
said above I understand that the situation  must have been immensely frustrating, 
inconvenient and unsettling for R, especially as she had to travel to attend court.  And I've 
thought carefully  about what shes told us about how the situation affected  her. And how 
Saga dealt with it. Having  done so I think £500  will be suitable compensation. Thats 
because that amount  is a substantial sum. And its in-line with awards wed make  in cases  of 
similar seriousness. Im also aware that Saga agreed to waive extra premiums that would 
otherwise have been due because of R's change of address. So Im satisfied that £500 
compensation on top of that is appropriate in the circumstances.
Also, when R brought her complaint to us she showed us additional costs she incurred, 
amounting to £288 in connection  with recovering her car from the police pound, that Saga 
hadn't previously  covered. Given that she only ran up those  costs  because her car was 
impounded I think its reasonable that Saga  reimburses her for those sums.  And as shes  
been without that money  for some  time,  I think  Saga should add simple interest to it at a rate 
of 8% a year from the date R paid those costs  to the date Saga reimburses her.
For completeness Ill add that in recent  correspondence with us R has commented on 
problems shes had with Saga in renewing  her policy and the premium it initially asked her to 
pay. But as those are issues  that Saga hasnt had the opportunity  to consider I dont intend 
to address them here.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Saga Services Limited to:
Pay R £500 compensation in total (inclusive  of the £100 compensation it had 
previously offered).  It should pay this amount within 28 days of us telling it that R has 
accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay simple  interest on 
the compensation at a rate of 8% a year from the date of my final decision to the date 
it makes payment. 
Pay R £288 to cover the additional costs of R recovering her car from the police 
pound. It should add simple interest to this sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date 
R paid those costs  to the date Saga reimburses her1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Saga considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income  tax from interest 
paid, it should tell R how much its taken  off. It should also give her a certificate showing this if she 
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN4246224