K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that he was misled  into taking out a hire purchase  agreement for the supply 
of a car on the promise of a free service which he has not been provided with.
background
In August  2017  a car was supplied to Mr A with a purchase price  of £13,695. He took out a 
hire purchase agreement with a credit amount of £4,700 with 12 monthly repayments of 
£416.64 and paid the rest of the purchase price  in cash. 
Mr A says he had sufficient funds to purchase the car outright with cash  and didnt need the 
finance. He says he was enticed into taking the hire purchase agreement with the promise of 
a free service on the car in 12 months  time which usually costs £175.  Alongside  this he was 
given a discount on the purchase price of the car because he took the finance. The amount 
of the discount  meant the hire purchase  agreement wasnt going  to cost Mr A any extra  
money. Mr A says he was happy with this arrangement  saying there would be no 
disadvantage for him and there  would  be a free service on the car.
In early 2018 Mr A heard that the dealership who supplied the car had ceased trading so he 
approached RCI about  the free service. RCI looked  in to the matter and said it has no record 
of a free service arrangement and because it was not party  to any discussions it was unable  
to assist. 
Mr A was unhappy with the response  so came to our service where one of our investigators  
looked into what happened. They reviewed  everything and were  persuaded by Mr As 
recollection of events so asked RCI to pay £175 for what happened. Mr A was happy  to 
accept £175 to resolve the complaint but RCI disagreed  with this so the complaint has come 
to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons.
Under Section  56 of Consumer Credit Act 1974  a lender is liable for statements made by a 
supplier before the hire purchase agreement is entered into. This means that even though 
RCI wasnt party to conversations with Mr A it can be liable for what  was said by the 
dealership when discussing the finance  agreement.
Mr A has explained why he didnt need a finance agreement to acquire the car and he has 
explained the discussion that took place that led him into taking out the finance  agreement.
Mr A has provided an email exchange he had with the dealership  at the time the car was 
supplied where  he asks for confirmation  of the free service. The email doesnt  have  any 
proof of the free service,  but the reply from the dealership doesnt dispute that a free service 
was part of the deal. This shows that Mr A was in discussion about the free service  at the 
time the car was supplied. 
RCI have seen this email and maintain that there  is no service  plan as part of the finance 
agreement, and it should not have to pay for a product it doesnt offer. I dont dispute that 
Ref: DRN45805232RCI doesnt offer a free car service plan, but as I explained above it can be held liable for 
what was said by the dealership when discussing the finance agreement. It may not have  
been a formal service  plan, such  as that which RCI have suggested would come with certain  
paperwork, but Im satisfied that a free service  was discussed with the dealership at the time 
the agreement  was taken out. 
Mr A has provided bank statements showing that he had sufficient available funds at the 
time to pay the full purchase price  in cash. He says he would have done this had he not 
been enticed into the finance agreement by the promise of a free service  and a discount on 
the purchase price  which meant the agreement  didnt  cost him anything. 
Having considered everything  that both Mr A and RCI have said I am persuaded that it is 
more likely than not that a free service  was offered by the dealership.  I am also persuaded, 
on the balance  of probabilities, that Mr A would have used his available funds to purchase 
the car outright for cash if he had not been enticed  into the finance agreement by the offer of 
the free service.
Im satisfied that the service was promised to him and hasnt been provided.  So regardless 
of whether or not Mr A wouldve  entered into the agreement, I think a free service was part of 
the deal and it is clear  to me he didnt get what he was promised. But I am also satisfied that 
had he not been offered the free service  Mr A would not have  taken the finance. 
A fair and reasonable resolution of the complaint is for RCI to pay Mr A £175,  which  is 
broadly the cost of a service for his car.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint and require  
RCI Financial  Services  Limited to pay Mr A £175.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Warren Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4580523