K822xcomplaint
M, a limited company, complains about  poor service when it applied for a business account 
with Metro Bank PLC. M is represented  by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr K.
background 
M applied to Metro Bank for a business  account.  Mr K says Metro Bank asked for 
information and documents  that werent necessary. He says the application  process took too 
long. He says the member of staff dealing with the application was rude to him and Ms other 
director and kept them waiting unnecessarily while  she copied  documents  and talked to 
friends. The member of staff then declined the application. Mr K says Metro  Bank  later 
admitted the wrong process had been  followed and invited the directors  to visit the branch 
again. But this wasnt possible due to other commitments.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said while Metro 
Bank said it was entitled to decide  what information  and documents  it needed,  it had 
accepted its service was poor. It emailed account opening documents  to Mr K and the 
account was opened. 
The adjudicator said the complainant here is M. As a company M cant feel upset or distress.  
Metro Bank  apologised for its poor service  and offered £50 compensation. The adjudicator  
said this was fair. M didnt  agree.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ms directors  visited a Metro Bank  branch without an appointment. They  were  told theyd 
have to wait for a member of staff to be available and it would take about two hours  to open 
the account. Mr K says this is too long.  But Metro Bank says it can take some  time to open  a 
business account. So I cant say that Mr K and the other director  were  given incorrect 
information about the time the process could take.
The staff member that dealt with Ms application asked for information about Ms business.  
While Mr K wasnt happy about this, its not clear to me that these questions were 
unreasonable. 
Metro Bank  says it didnt  provide an appropriate  level of service. It says branch staff could 
have handled  the matter  better. It offered £50 compensation.  
M is the complainant  here. As its a company, M cant feel upset. But Ms directors  did suffer  
unnecessary inconvenience and M can be compensated for that. Instead of completing the 
account opening process in branch, they had to contact Metro Bank and complete forms to 
open Ms account.  On balance, I think £50 compensation for the inconvenience  caused by 
this is fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN46681892my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find that £50 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4668189