K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC hasnt fairly compensated him after he fell victim  
to a scam.
background 
In June 2018, Mr D fell victim to a scam, as a result of which  he transferred payments of 
£2,000 and £8,000  out of his Barclays current account. When  Mr D reported the scam, 
Barclays refunded him for the larger  payment,  but didnt accept it was liable for the full loss. 
This left Mr D out of pocket by £2,000. 
Mr D was unhappy with this outcome, so complained to Barclays,  and brought his complaint 
to this service.
Barclays subsequently agreed to refund the remaining £2,000. It said it would add interest to 
this sum for the period Mr D was without the money, together with a payment of £200  for the 
trouble and upset  caused.
Our investigator passed the details of this suggested settlement on to Mr D. 
Mr D didnt accept the offer.  He explained to the investigator that hed suffered significant 
distress and inconvenience as a result  of the scam.  Mr D said he suffered from depression  
and anxiety. Hed taken  steps to investigate  the loss himself, contacting the bank that had 
received the funds, but was told by that bank that it couldnt give him any information about 
the scammer. Hed not worked as much  overtime as he would normally, and he believed this 
had since led to a re-mortgage application  being refused.
Mr D thought Barclays should do more to put things right,  and said he thought Barclays 
should pay him at least £1,000 for the distress  and inconvenience hed suffered.
Our investigator conveyed  this additional information  to Barclays. Barclays reviewed the 
offer it had made.  It said would increase the amount it was offering to a figure  of £350.
The investigator put this revised  offer to Mr D. She said it was her opinion that the increased 
offer of £350 was a fair offer in the circumstances.  
She said shed taken account  of the impact  of the scam that Mr D had described. She 
explained that she thought the distress  and inconvenience Mr D had suffered  was mainly 
due to the actions of those responsible for the scam.  She didnt  consider  Barclays  were 
responsible for the actions of the scammers,  nor for the actions of the bank that had 
received the funds.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators findings. So his complaint has been referred to me 
to reach  a final decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN49297042Firstly, Id like to acknowledge the full extent of what Mr D has explained about the impact  he 
suffered from the scam. It is clear to me that Mr D fell victim  to a cruel and sophisticated 
scam. It must have  been extremely distressing to have lost such a large  sum of money 
through the actions of the scammer. I have  considerable sympathy for the situation Mr D 
found himself in. 
Barclays has now agreed to refund Mr D in full for the amounts  he lost as a result  of the 
scam. Its also agreed to pay interest  on the amount  it didnt agree to refund before Mr D 
brought his complaint to this service. The issue outstanding, and which I must decide here, 
is what would be a fair award for the distress and inconvenience Mr D suffered as a result of 
Barclays actions.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr D has told us, and listened  to the call in which he 
discussed the impact  of the scam with our investigator. Ive also reviewed everything weve  
been sent by both sides to the complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the outcome  reached by the investigator,  and for the same  
reasons. 
I say this because  I agree  with the investigator  that the primary source of the distress Mr D 
suffered was the scammer, rather than Barclays. And neither do I hold Barclays  responsible 
here for the actions of the bank that received  the funds. 
I need to consider, rather, the actions Barclays took and what portion of the impact Mr D 
suffered was attributable to Barclays rather than the other parties  involved.  
Reviewing everything, I acknowledge that Barclays did respond promptly  to Mr Ds report of 
the scam.  It offered to refund the bulk of the money  that Mr D lost relatively quickly.  I think it 
could have offered  to refund the remaining £2,000 sooner than it did. 
I know from what Mr D has told us that hed like me to make  a higher award than Barclays 
revised offer.
But thinking  about Barclays actions, and the extent to which these impacted on the 
circumstances Mr D faced, its my decision  that the offer Barclays  has already made is a fair 
settlement of his complaint. I think this reflects  the impact of Barclays actions. It is in line 
with the level of award I would make.
I understand that Barclays has already  paid that increased offer in full to Mr D. But if it has 
not done so, Mr D should contact Barclays to arrange payment. 
Ref: DRN49297043my final decision
It is my decision that Barclays Bank  UK PLCs increased offer to settle Mr Ds complaint is 
fair in the circumstances of his complaint. I do not require it to do anything further in 
settlement of his complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Stephen Dickie
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4929704