K821x#15Complaint
Mr L says Elevate Credit  International  Limited  (trading as Sunny) shouldnt have provided 
him with instalment loans because he was in active Individual Voluntary Arrangement  (IVA) 
and Debt Management  Plan at the time of his loan applications. In addition to this, Mr L says 
Sunny did not complete enough affordability  checks, which led to him not being  able to meet 
his normal household commitments  and led him to taking further payday loans from other 
lenders.
Background
Mr L took six instalment  loans from Sunny  between  July 2017 and January 2018. A 
summary of Mr Ls borrowing, based on the information provided  to us by Sunny, can be 
found in the table below:
loan 
numberreceived 
dateactual  
repayment 
datenumber  of 
instalmentsloan 
amountcombined  max 
monthly  
instalment
1 02/07/2017 12/01/2018 14 £2,500.00 £346.39
2 07/08/2017 15/08/2017 14 £100.00 £359.99
3 12/10/2017 27/10/2017 14 £300.00 £386.54
4 30/10/2017 22/11/2017 14 £500.00 £416.09
5 01/12/2017 12/01/2018 14 £1,100.00 £498.91
6 29/01/2018 28/06/2018 14 £2,500.00 £348.69
In our adjudicators most recent findings,  he thought Sunny had treated Mr L fairly when it 
provided the first loan.  Although the checks for this loan may not have gone far enough, the 
adjudicator didnt think that furthermore in-depth checks  wouldve made a difference to 
Sunnys decision  to lend.
However, the adjudicator didnt think Sunny should have provided the second loan, or any 
subsequent loans. The adjudicator felt that by that by this point, further in-depth checks 
wouldve revealed Mr L had a number of outstanding short-term credit  commitments at the 
time. And by loan 6, the adjudicator felt that a pattern  of lending had been established by 
this point, which shouldve  indicated to Sunny that Mr L wasnt  able to sustainably make his 
loan repayments.  
Mr L hasnt said whether he disagrees with the adjudicators most recent findings. Weve 
asked Mr L for further information relating to his IVA but to date, weve not had a response.  
Sunny didnt accept  the adjudicators findings  for several reasons, and made the following 
points:
it carried out thorough  eligibility,  creditworthiness and affordability checks  before
each loan was approved
the combined contractual repayments  made  up a small portion of Mr Ls declared
income and;
Mr L was only charged interest on his loans for approximately  12 months,  which is 
consistent with the products being  used for short term borrowing needs.
Ref: DRN44829882As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  in order to reasonably 
conclude Mr L could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this 
in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less thorough  checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L hasnt said whether he disagrees with our adjudicators opinion about loan 1. Because 
of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan.  So I wont  be making 
a finding about it. But this loan was part of the borrowing relationship  Mr L had with Sunny, 
so it is something I will take into account when considering  his borrowing history.
Sunny says it enquired about  Mr Ls income and all expenses, including  any short-term 
lending commitments  and it also used information  from Credit  Reference Agencies 
(CRAs).And it was satisfied based on what it saw that Mr L would be in a position  to be able 
to afford all of his loans.  
But Sunny was required to establish  whether  Mr L could  sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ref: DRN44829883The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  Mr L could  
sustainably make his repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Bearing in mind the terms of the loans  and the size of the repayments in comparison to Mr 
Ls declared income,  I think Sunny shouldve carried out a full review  of Mr Ls financial 
position - which  ought to have included asking to verify some of the information  he had 
provided. But Sunny didnt take steps to verify  Mr Ls income  and expenditure and instead 
chose to rely on what Mr L told it, so I dont  think that its checks  were reasonable and 
proportionate.
Our adjudicator felt that proportionate checks for loan 2 would most likely have shown Sunny 
that Mr L had multiple short-term loans at the time the loan was given. Having reviewed the 
information, we have on file about  Mr Ls circumstances, I can see Mr L had taken out two 
loans with two other  short-term lenders  in the days leading up to his second loan with Sunny. 
The loan repayments he was due to make  to these lenders were £955.12 and £582.95,  due 
around the same time as his commitments  to Sunny. Mr Ls first loan was still running and 
had only been  open for around  one month. This meant by loan 2 he had repayments totalling 
around £359.99 solely due to Sunny. But his overall  monthly commitments  to short  term 
lenders, was around £1,900.
Whilst I do not have  sight  of Mr Ls actual bank statements, Ive taken into consideration the 
information he provided to Sunny about  his monthly income being  £2,500.  And I find it 
unlikely that Mr Ls income would be significantly more than what  he declared. This shows 
Mr L was paying  76% of his income towards  short term loans. On top of this, Mr L had his 
regular living costs  which he declared to be £1,125. I can see that, after loan 2 was 
approved, Mr L continued  to use a number of other short-term loan providers. 
So, in these circumstances,  I dont think Sunny couldve reasonably believed that Mr L 
would've been able to repay loan 2 or any further loans without undue difficulty  or without the 
need to borrow  again.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr L, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And I think Sunny shouldve realised this at the 
time it provided loan 6. I say this because:
Mr L was into his seventh month of owing Sunny money.  Whilst he had repaid all of 
his previous loans  at this point, he had come  back to borrow  the same sum as his 
first loan.  In my view,  this demonstrates he was not making any headway  in his need  
for further assistance. I also believe that Mr Ls loan history up until this point was in 
itself a clear demonstration of Mr L not using these loans  as Sunny had intended.
Mr Ls borrowing history shows he was provided with new loans quickly after he had 
repaid previous ones and he had needed to borrow practically each month.  So Sunny 
ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Mr L was having  to borrow  further 
to cover the hole the repayment  of his previous loans left in his finances and that 
Mr Ls indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
I think that Mr L lost out when Sunny  provided  loan 6 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ls indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended  period of time and
Ref: DRN44829884the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Ls 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans
So Im upholding  Mr Ls complaint about  loans 2 - 6 and Sunny should put things right as
detailed below.
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr L paid on loans 2  6
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 2 - 5 from Mr Ls credit  file
remove loan 6 from Mr Ls credit  file entirely, this is because the period of time
Mr L owed Sunny money means that any information still recorded about loan this 
loan is adverse.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
 Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ls complaint.  
Elevate Credit International Limited should  pay Mr L compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4482988