K820x#14complaint
Mrs A says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  for a 
mortgage.
background
Mrs A took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2000, and increased her cover alongside a 
further advance  in 2005. Mrs A paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt 
attract interest. It covered  her repayments in case  she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.  
Having done that, I have  not found that Mrs As policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mrs As mortgage application had a section for insurance. It offered her the choice  to take 
PPI or turn it down, with both options  being equally prominent. The option to buy PPI was 
chosen, while the option to decline it was left blank, and Mrs A signed the application  to 
confirm her choices. She also signed and submitted a separate  application specifically for 
PPI. Lloyds then sent Mrs A a letter which thanked her for choosing  PPI, included her policy  
schedule, and reminded her she could cancel it if she changed her mind.
In 2005, Mrs A again signed and submitted an application specifically for PPI in order  to 
increase her cover. Her loan offer stated that she didnt  have to buy any insurance from 
Lloyds if she didnt  want to, and described  the PPI as optional. It set out the cost of the 
policy separately to the cost of the lending  itself, and I can see Mrs A set up a direct debit 
specifically to pay for PPI  it was not automatically included in the lendings  cost.
Mrs A doesnt remember buying PPI, and I dont doubt that shes given us her best 
recollections. It was sold and updated many  years ago, the accounts involved have long 
since closed, and buying insurance is not often memorable. So its not surprising that she 
doesnt remember it. But given the substantial evidence here,  I think  that Lloyds gave  Mrs A 
a choice and that she chose PPI  even if, understandably, she no longer recalls  doing so.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs A, so it had to check it was right for her. And based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example,  it looks  like 
Mrs A was eligible for the cover and wasnt significantly affected by any of its key exclusions 
or limitations. It covered her for much longer than her work benefits  would  have, and it paid 
out on top of those  benefits. Its worth bearing in mind that the mortgage was a significant, 
long term commitment, and if Mrs A fell behind on the payments she couldve lost her home. 
So it looks  like the PPI couldve  really  been useful for her in protecting  her home.
Ref: DRN42851092Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mrs A about PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs A chose to take PPI, which  indicates  she wanted this type of 
cover. As I explained above, Mrs A wasnt significantly affected by any of the main  things the 
policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been  useful for her in case  something went wrong.  
The policy was competitively priced  given  how much it would pay out in a claim, and 
according to the budget Mrs A made with Lloyds  at the time, it was affordable. And the PPI 
was paid on a rolling monthly  basis, so Mrs A could  cancel it at any time without a penalty.  
Overall, I dont  think that better information  was likely to have put her off taking  out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November  2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4285109