K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc declined  his claim and avoided his 
policy when he made a claim under his buildings insurance policy.
background
In September  2018, when clearing out stored  goods,  Mr R noticed a crack in the rear wall of 
his detached double garage. He immediately called  his insurers  who sent out a loss adjuster.
The loss adjuster found a series of significant  cracks  to the wall and floor slab of the garage.  
It reported that the pattern  and nature of these indicated a period of subsidence and that the 
cause of the movement appeared to be clay shrinkage caused  by nearby vegetation.
Mr R told the loss adjuster  that the damage hadnt  been there  18 months  earlier. He said 
hairline cracks to the slab and wall were present when he bought  the house in 2010 but 
hadnt been thought  to be significant.  He gave the loss adjuster a copy of the pre-purchase 
survey report  obtained  at that time.
RSA declined the claim and avoided the policy (treated it as if it had never existed). It said it 
thought Mr R had misrepresented the position when  he took out the policy.  It said that if it 
had known the true positon  it wouldnt have offered insurance on any terms. It returned his 
premium.
Mr R brought his complaint to us. He feels very strongly that RSA has called his integrity into 
question. He says he was in the course of selling his house at the time. The problem with the 
garage meant the first sale fell through and he had to accept a much lower offer. An estate 
agent has estimated  the impact of the damage to the garage  on the achieved sale price was 
around £50,000. Mr R would like RSA to pay him that amount.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  I know that will be a great disappointment to Mr R and Im sorry 
to learn of the situation hes found himself in. 
I should say at the outset that I dont  think Mr Rs integrity is in doubt.  RSA believes that the 
misrepresentation was careless, not deliberate, and I agree with it. But where there  has 
been a careless misrepresentation an insurer is able to avoid the policy  provided  it can 
show, as RSA has here, that it wouldnt otherwise  have offered the insurance. 
Mr R took out this policy in March 2018 and the application was made on-line  by his broker.
As is usual,  a number  of questions were asked during  the application process to help RSA 
decide if it wanted to take on the risk of insuring Mr Rs property.  This decision is only about 
RSAs actions and Ill treat answers  given by the broker as if theyd been given by Mr R.
The relevant  law here, which I have to take into account, is the Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA). This gives  an insurer remedies if, when 
applying for a policy, a consumer  makes  what the Act describes  as a qualifying  
Ref: DRN45146772misrepresentation. The Act requires the consumer to take reasonable care not to 
misrepresent the position.
But insurers  have to ask clear questions. In this case Mr R was asked for information about 
the property. One of the questions asked,  which  was then repeated  as a Statement of Fact 
in papers sent to Mr R was:
The buildings (including outbuildings) at the property  have not suffered previously from 
structural damage caused by:
subsidence (downward movement  of the ground beneath the buildings, other than by 
the action of made up ground settling or by structures bedding  down within ten years 
of construction);
landslip (sudden downward movement of sloping ground); or heave  (upward  
movement of the ground beneath the buildings as a result of the soil expanding): and 
heave (upward  movement of the ground  beneath the buildings  as a result of the soil 
expanding): and 
do not have any signs of damage to them (such as internal  or external stepped  or diagonal  
cracking) that may be due to subsidence, landslip or heave. 
As I understand it Mr R answered that the property had not suffered previously from 
structural damage caused by any of these things and did not have any signs of damage  that 
may be due to subsidence,  landslip  or heave.
I must decide whether Mr R took reasonable care when he answered the question in that 
way. RSA says he didnt and it relies  on information  from the pre-purchase  survey report  of 
2010.
The report  is headed Building Survey  and is described as a pre-purchase  investigation.  It 
comprises 24 pages.
I think its fair to say that when Mr R bought  the property he was prepared to take on 
something of a project. The report says that the property needs  general repair,  maintenance 
and upgrading work inside and it mentions that Mr R already had a builder  working with him 
on this.
The report  makes a number of references  which I think  are relevant to this complaint.  I think  
it would  be appropriate  for me to quote parts of the report  in full:
Foundations and Movement
The main  bulk of this property, being  of the age that it is, will not be founded on conventional 
modern concrete foundations. The only part of the whole structure  which may have modern 
foundations is the conservatory and the small entrance porch. Despite this comment, we 
doubt whether  even  these parts will meet full modern standards although the existing detail 
does seem to suffice for the two areas  in question.  
In so far as the main  building areas are concerned however,  these will be supported  below 
ground on some thickened course of stone (probably  with some brick elements too) which in 
effect spread  the weight of the walls down into the ground. Underneath the base of the walls 
Ref: DRN45146773will be a trench  levelled and filled with stone by the original contractor  and although this 
property has moved  over the years and will probably  always  continue to do so the situation  
is not an uncommon one and we saw nothing which would cause us to make you abort your 
purchase or to make further below  ground checks or investigations  at this time  subject to 
the matter of insurance which  will be deal with below.
As far as insurance is concerned we pose a suggestion. Whenever a property of this age 
and type is being purchased in the open market  and ownership is being  passed from one 
person to another then you have  a choice of action  with regard to insurance.  You either take 
out a new policy involving  a complex  set of enquiries  and questions  or it might be possible to 
take over the benefit of a long term insurance arrangement by, in effect, taking over the 
vendors policy. This approach cannot  always be practical but in this instance we think  it 
would be sensible for your legal advisers  to progress the possibility  
The movement which is referred  to above  is visible on this property, both inside and outside.  
Externally the west end is particularly affected and this comment  applies to both the main 
house itself and to the old bakery section.  The existence of a small buttress to the east end 
is also an indicator  of past movement as are cracks under/around windows. 
Inside the property there are tie bars from north  to south which have been put in many years  
ago to try to contain  movement and we are sure you have noted the slopes on the floors 
both upstairs and down as well as sundry cracks within the building and on its perimeter. For 
the purposes of this report we do not propose to list them all but as an example of what we 
are saying look inside the cupboards at the east end of the south east bedroom,  on the wall 
between the kitchen and the hall, in the area of the lobby into the main  bedroom and on the 
wall between  the sitting room and the small entrance hall (where  the door is filled in).
The majority of the cracks and distortions are in our view old and established  and they show  
no evidence of any significant ongoing change in their status. There  are however one or two 
external cracks at the west end which are relatively fresh but they are not so severe  as to 
cause us to suggest you do not go ahead. 
Trees 
Any mature  property of this type will inevitably  have  a number  of trees  in its gardens and the 
general vicinity and in an area having any clay soil in the vicinity as here, the presence of 
trees can be more relevant than in, for example, an area of pure sandy soil. At the west end 
of the property is a willow tree which caused us some  initial  disquiet particularly when the 
vendor, late during our survey, volunteered a comment that at one time a brook in the area 
had been filled in. We suspect that the roots from this willow tree will be in part responsible 
for the west end movement on the house  which will be referred to below. Close by the willow 
is a high, leaning,  Conifer and we would suggest that you have its soundness checked out 
by an arboriculturist. The willow must  be managed.
To the east end of the house is a larch  tree which causes  us less disquiet  but we are 
bothered by a rank or extremely  over-high leylandi which runs northward  from the garage   
just outside the east plot boundary. We understand these trees were planted by a neighbour 
and they have sentimental  attachment for her and she has to date resisted all attempts by 
[the vendor]  and others to get them lopped or felled. In our view the need for action  of these 
trees is going to arise particularly as the cracks on the garage floor and wall could  well be 
caused by the roots  of these leylandi. 
Ref: DRN45146774Whenever a property  in clay soil has hedges  and boundaries, as well as shrubs and plants  in 
its garden there is a need to keep these  regularly lopped in order to try to minimise  changes 
in the state of the soil which can affect stability.  
Garage
The double garage probably dates from the time when [the vendors] first moved  in. It is of 
half brick wall construction  with a site built roof construction supporting fairly modern tiling. 
The rear wall of the garage is its weakest detail  as it lacks piers in its width.
There is a fracture in the north wall and one through the concrete floor  possibly caused by 
close by roots. Neither however  so wide as to cause us huge concern at this time .
Mr R (through a representative) says that when he took out the policy  he wasnt  aware of 
any structural damage to the property  and that there is nothing in the pre-purchase report 
indicative of structural damage.
He says that movement  is not always synomymous with subsidence, landslip or heave and 
that the pre-purchase report makes no mention of either internal or external stepped  or 
diagonal cracks. Nor does it confirm  that the cracking is actually caused  by root intrusion.  
He says that whilst there was some minor cracking previoulsy evident to the garage the 
severity of the current cracking  occurred suddenly and in a very short  space of time.
In other  words Mr R doesnt  believe he misrepresented  the position to RSA when he 
answered the question in the way he did.
Ive thought about this carefully  and I dont dismiss these arguments lighlty, particulary as 
the pre-purchase survey  was undertaken some eight years  before Mr R applied  for the 
policy.
However, the pre-purchase report does raise a number of concerns  about  ongoing 
movement and cracking and particularly cracking to the garage which it says could well be 
caused by tree roots. And it makes clear that this movement is likely to continue  and that 
action will need to be taken in relation to the trees.
And whilst the report doesnt  specifically mention stepped or diagonal cracking  it does refer 
to visible  signs of damage caused  by movement. It talks about sundry cracks, mostly old but 
some relatively fresh. It also talks about  a fracture to the garage wall and floor.
Although the damage wasnt thought to be so severe as to warrant  Mr R aborting the 
purchase I think the report made clear that there  were signs  of damage which  could get 
worse over time. So, irrespective of severity, I think the report clearly indicated  signs  of 
damage that may be due to subsidence,  landslip or heave.
The cracks in the garage wall and floor leading to the insurance claim appear consistent  with 
those idendified  in the pre-purchase  report. By 2018  they were  thought  to be extremely 
severe. 
I appreciate that the long hot summer of 2018  may well have made  things worse,  more 
quickly, and that Mr R may not have realised that things had deteriorated in the way they 
had. 
Ref: DRN45146775But, in all the circumstances  and in the light of the report in Mr Rs possession I dont think  it 
was correct for Mr R to answer  the question posed on the application in the way he did. I 
think he did, unfortunately, make a qualifying misrepresentation when  applying  for the policy.
RSA has demonstrated  to us that, if the misrepresentation had not been  made  it would not 
have offered the insurance on any terms. So it is entitled to avoid the policy.
In the circumstances I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
I know that Mr R has previously said that he may wish to take legal advice on his position. If 
he doesnt accept  my decision that option  remains open to him.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4514677