K821x#15complaint
Mr E says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mr E took out in 2000. It was added to his 
account when  on the telephone after the card had been set up.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr Es complaint and Ill explain  why.
Barclays had to make Mr E aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before 
adding it to his card. There is limited information available  from the time the PPI was sold,  
and I dont have  enough to say Barclays presented  the policy as optional, or that Mr E 
consented to have it. So Im not persuaded he really wanted it or chose to have it, and I think 
Mr E has lost out because  of what Barclays did wrong. 
Ive taken into account Barclays comments,  including what  it said about Mr E taking the 
policy out shortly after applying for his card and its telephone  sales  process at the time. But 
as it hasnt provided sufficient evidence that shows the policy  was presented  as optional and 
that Mr E chose to have  it, I still think I should  uphold the complaint.
putting things right
Barclays should put Mr E in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.Barclays should  find out how much Mr E would  have owed when he closed his credit 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr E owed when  he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr E made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.Barclays should  add simple interest  on the difference between what  Mr E would have 
owed when he closed his account  from when  he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
Ref: DRN41672642interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Barclays works out what Mr E would have owed each month without PPI  
Mr E paid more  than enough to clear his balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr E paid.  And it should  carry  on paying interest until the point 
when Mr E wouldve owed Barclays something on his credit  card.  The interest  rate 
should be 8% a year.
D.Barclays should  tell Mr E what its done  to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Es complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4167264