K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that his agreement was cancelled even though the information  he received 
from Premium  Credit Limited suggested his payments  were  up to date.
background
Mr P entered into a finance agreement with Premium Credit  to make the payments due 
under his insurance policy.
Mr P say that he received an email from his insurer  on 17 July 2018 saying that his payment 
hadnt gone through and he needed to make payment by 28 July or his policy  would be 
cancelled. Mr P says that he was travelling at the time and when he got to his destination he 
tried to make a payment. However he received  a message saying this wasnt  possible so he 
called Premium Credit and a recording said his next payment  was not due until August. 
Because of this he says he thought that his payments  were  up to date.  This was not the 
case and his policy was then cancelled. 
Mr P says that although there was enough  money in his account at the time the payment 
was due his direct debit  was returned.  He says he has offered to make the payment after the 
agreement was cancelled  but this wasnt accepted. 
Premium Credit says that it collects payment on behalf of Mr Ps insurer.  It says that Mr Ps 
bank informed in on 16 July that a payment had been returned unpaid  for a second time.  It 
wrote to Mr P saying what needed  to happen to prevent his agreement being cancelled.  It 
says that although Mr P contacted it on 25 July he was not connected to an agent and it 
says that the message he would have  received  from the automated system was that a 
payment was due. It says that it didnt receive payment by the due date and so his credit 
agreement was cancelled.  
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that as Mr P didnt provide his bank 
details on the call she didnt think it reasonable that he thought payment had been made. 
She said that the onus was on Mr P to ensure that his July payment was made.
Mr P did not accept our investigators view and asked for his complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Mr P said that he received  an email on 17 July about his payment not being  made  and that 
this needed to be made by 27 July. I have also seen a copy of a letter  dated  16 July from 
Premium Credit giving the same information.  This letter  makes  it clear what would happen  if 
the payment was not made in time and also that no further attempts  would be made to take 
the payment.
Ref: DRN49003482Mr P says he made two attempts to make the payment online and has provided a 
screenshot of a message  saying we are currently unable  to process payments for this Credit  
Agreement. We only process  card payments on Credit Agreements  which are in default. 
The message does not have a date on.
Mr P called Premium  Credit on 25 July and says that the automated system said his next 
payment was due in August. Mr P says that because of this he thought there were no issues  
with his account. He also says that as he as aboard  he was not able to access  his bank 
statements. In contrast  Premium  Credit said that if Mr P had called  the automated system he 
would have been told a payment was due.
A recording of the call made is not available as Premium Credit says recordings are only 
available if the consumer talks to an adviser. Mr P said that on the call he wasnt  given an 
option to talk to an adviser. However  I note Premium  Credits  comments  that he 
disconnected the call part way through.
On balance, I accept  that Mr P made  attempts to contact Premium Credit  before  the 
payment deadline and I understand  the comments he has made about the information he 
received. However,  given  the letter dated 16 July made it clear that no further payment 
attempts would be made I find that Premium Credit had done enough to make Mr P aware 
that if he didnt  make a payment before 27 July his agreement  would be cancelled. Mr P 
says he cant remember seeing the letter and it is possible this arrived  after he had travelled 
abroad, however I note he also received an email at the time which  made it clear he needed 
to make a payment.
Because of this, I think it reasonable  that Mr P would have known he had to make a payment 
before the date even if other  information  he received did not make  this clear. As the payment 
was not made by the required date, I do not find that I can say Premium Credit  did anything  
wrong by taking further action.
On balance, I do not uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do no uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4900348