K820x#14complaint
Miss C and Ms C complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc has charged  them  an unfairly  
high rate of interest on their mortgage  when compared to Bank of England base rate.
Miss C and Ms C would like Co-op  to refund the additional interest they feel theyve been 
charged unfairly. Miss C has managed the complaint throughout.
background
In 1999 Miss C and Ms C took out a capital repayment mortgage for £90,000  with Britannia 
(which has since been taken over by Co-op). The mortgage was set up to be repaid over a 
19 year term.  The mortgage  was taken out with a three year capped  interest of 5.34%. When 
the 3 year product expired, the mortgage  reverted to the lenders  standard variable rate 
(SVR). Miss C and Ms Cs mortgage has been  on the SVR ever since.
In late 2003 Miss C wrote to Co-op  asking whether  their mortgage would start to track  Bank  
of England base  rate now their interest rate product had expired.  Co-op  gave Miss C and Ms 
C a quote for a new fixed rate product but it wasnt taken out at the time because there was 
an early repayment charge (ERC) until 2004.
In 2014 Miss and Ms C were experiencing problems making their mortgage  repayments. 
They set up an arrangement whereby a third party, Mr C, would make  payments to the 
mortgage on their behalf. They also asked for confirmation that there would be no additional 
penalties or charges if they repaid the mortgage  balance early.
In 2017 Miss C and Ms C repaid  the mortgage. Around the same  time they complained to 
Co-op. They were unhappy  with the amount of interest that had been  charged  on their 
mortgage when  Bank  of England base  rates  had been at very low levels. They  said this 
seemed particularly unfair when Miss C had experienced a pay freeze following the 
economic downturn.
Co-op didnt uphold the complaint. In summary,  Co-op thought it had charged interest in line 
with the terms and conditions of the mortgage. 
Miss C and Ms C brought their complaint to us and our investigator  looked into the matter. 
He didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought Miss C and Ms C had been 
charged interest on their mortgage in line with the terms and conditions of their mortgage 
documentation. And, he thought Miss C and Ms C were able to take their mortgage  
elsewhere without  penalty if theyd been  unhappy  with Co-ops  SVR.  He also didnt think  
Co-op had ever said that the SVR would  track  the Bank of England base rate. 
Miss C replied to say she didnt accept  our investigators findings.  And she was disappointed 
that he hadnt taken account  of a quote  shed highlighted  to us made by the chief executive 
of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
This complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
.
Ref: DRN47566482my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find myself in 
agreement with our investigator  for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
First Id like to reassure Miss C and Ms C that I have taken  into account legislation,  
regulation and good industry practice in reaching my decision. I have also thought about the 
quote that Miss C has brought to our attention. While I have considered these factors,  Im 
not constrained  by them. Im able to determine  the merits  of each complaint, based on what  I 
consider is fair and reasonable in the specific circumstances of each case.
Id also like to say that were a separate body to the regulator and we provide a different 
function. Were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative  to the 
courts. We dont regulate or fine businesses for wrongdoing and we dont tell financial  firms  
that they must change their working practices. We look at the circumstances of individual  
complaints brought by consumers. Where  we find evidence of a mistake or unfair  treatment 
we look to put things right on case by case basis.
were Miss C and Ms C charged the correct  rate of interest on their mortgage account? 
Ive looked at the mortgage documentation  that Miss C and Ms C entered  into in 1999. Ive 
referred to this to try to determine what Britannia said about what interest rate would  apply to 
the mortgage at the outset and then what  would happen to the interest payable after the 
initial interest rate product  expired.
The mortgage offer sets out that there  was a three  year capped rate of 5.35%, following 
which time the mortgage would revert to Britannias standard variable mortgage rate (SVR) 
applicable at that time.  I think it makes it clear  that the capped rate will no longer apply after 
the first three years of the mortgage. The mortgage  offer says that the rate of interest after 
the capped rate expires is variable and that it will change as the standard  variable mortgage  
rate alters. It doesnt say in the mortgage paperwork that the mortgage was a tracker rate or 
that it would  track the Bank of England base rate. 
But I dont doubt  that in 2002 Miss C and Ms C had the impression that their mortgage would 
track Bank of England  base rate. I say this because Co-op sent us a copy of a letter  that 
Miss C sent to Co-op dated 11 May 2002. In it Miss C asks whether their mortgage will track 
the Bank of England base  rate going forward. Its not clear  what communication there  was 
between Co-op  and Miss C immediately  after the letter was received but the following year 
Miss C and Ms C explored taking out a new fixed rate. Weve  asked Co-op  why this rate was 
never given  out and its confirmed this was because there was still an ERC attached to the 
capped rate until 2004. 
These discussions about a new product and Miss C and Ms Cs decision not to take out a 
product in 2003 indicate to me that they had become aware that their mortgage wasnt linked  
to the Bank of England  base rate by this time. Theyd clearly discussed interest rates with 
Co-op and I think its reasonable to assume that they would have  been  told that the 
mortgage was now on the SVR. It seems Miss C and Ms C considered  taking out a fixed  rate 
product but decided  not to at the time because of the ERC that would have applied at the 
time. I think this is understandable.
Ref: DRN47566483Co-ops contact notes show that in June 2004  it sent information about  new interest rate 
products to Miss C following a request. There  werent any contractual  terms from this point 
that would  have prevented Miss C and Ms C from moving their mortgage onto another 
product with Co-op. Or they could have moved their mortgage to another lender if theyd felt 
Co-ops products  were  no longer competitive.  Co-ops records from the time also show that 
Miss C met with a mortgage advisor  in 2006  to discuss interest rate products.  It isnt clear 
why a product  wasnt taken out but Im satisfied that options were  discussed on more  than 
one occasion.
Overall I consider that Miss C and Ms C were charged interest as per the terms and 
conditions of their mortgage.  I think its likely that from 2003 they understood their mortgage 
wasnt tracking the Bank of England base rate following discussions with Co-op  about  other  
interest rate products  in 2003, 2004 and 2006.   
was the level of Co-ops SVR fair?
While Im satisfied  that Co-op  was right to apply its SVR to Miss C and Ms Cs mortgage  
account, Ive also considered whether  Co-ops  SVR has been  charged at a level that could 
be considered  unfair. 
Ive looked at the level of interest  that was charged  from the start of the mortgage to the date 
that Miss C and Ms C repaid the loan. These interest rates have also been  plotted in a graph 
against the Bank of England base rate by our investigator for Miss C and Ms Cs reference.
For the first three years of the mortgage the interest  rate charged was the capped  rate of 
5.34%. After  that time it increased to a maximum of 7.2% between  August 2007 and January 
2008 before  it started to fall. It then fell to a low of 3.99% in August 2009. The SVR stayed at 
3.99% until 2012  when  it increased to 4.49% for the next four years.  In 2016 the SVR was 
lowered again  to 4.24%. It was still at this level when Miss C and Ms C repaid their mortgage 
in 2017.
Ive already said that Co-ops SVR didnt  have to track Bank of England base rate although 
this is typically one of a number of factors that a lender takes into account when setting its 
SVR. Overall I dont think the level of Co-ops  SVR seems out of line with other high street  
lenders offering comparable mortgage loans and it doesnt seem to me that the level of rate 
charged seems unfair or unreasonable. 
I know my decision will be a disappointment for Miss C and Ms C but I dont  uphold  their 
complaint. Im satisfied  that Co-op charged  interest in line with the mortgages terms and 
conditions and that it applied an SVR that seemed fair and reasonable in comparison to that 
charged by other lenders. If Miss C and Ms C were  unhappy with the level of SVR they were 
being charged it seems  reasonable to me that they could have taken  out another interest  
rate product  or moved their mortgage to another lender  and, importantly, they could have 
done so without having to pay an ERC  any time after 2004. So there was no barrier in the 
mortgage agreement  that prevented them moving  off the SVR after 2004.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C and Ms C 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2019.
Ref: DRN47566484Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4756648