K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about Marks & Spencer  Financial  Services  Plc (Marks & Spencer) 
regarding difficulties she experienced in replacing  loyalty vouchers which she had not 
received. 
She wants £100 further compensation to reflect her time and inconvenience.  
background
Mrs S holds a Marks & Spencer credit card. As part of her cards terms she receives  loyalty  
vouchers and free hot drink vouchers sent to her every quarter. 
In May 2018, Mrs S noted that she had not received  her vouchers. The vouchers equated to 
£53 to spend in Marks & Spencer,  plus 12 hot drinks, worth  £32.40.
She contacted Marks & Spencer and reported that she had not received the vouchers. An 
agent credited  her account with £32.40 to reflect the value  of the hot drinks,  and cancelled 
and reordered  her spending vouchers.  The agent also credited Mrs Ss loyalty  account with 
1000 points, equivalent to £10 to reflect her inconvenience.
Mrs S contacted Marks & Spencer again approximately a week  later chasing up her 
complaint. She reported that her messages had not been responded to and her complaint 
was not resolved. Marks & Spencer  responded to her apologising that her earlier messages 
had not been responded  to. Her account  was credited with £20 as compensation. 
Mrs S then received replacement vouchers,  but when she went to use them  they could not 
be redeemed, as the system showed  that they had already been used, or had been 
cancelled. 
Mrs S had to make  further  phone calls, and speak  to staff in store,  to resolve  this. Marks & 
Spencer ultimately credited the value  of the vouchers (£53)   to Mrs Ss account, along with a 
further £50 compensation for her inconvenience.  
Mrs S followed up her complaint with Marks & Spencer and received  a final response  in mid 
June 2018. This referred to a previous communication  and set out that it considered that the 
issues had been  addressed by its earlier response.  It  did not propose to offer any further 
compensation, and informed  her of her right to complain to us. 
Mrs S was not happy with this and contacted us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties.  This 
was that there were  failings in Marks & Spencers handling of the issue,  but that it had acted 
reasonably in its offers of compensation. 
Mrs S did not accept this view. She said that the £53 and £32.40 amounts credited to her 
account to reflect the vouchers values could not be considered as compensation as they 
were her entitlement under the scheme.  She did not feel that the £70 additional 
compensation and 1000  points were sufficient  to reflect her inconvenience.  
She therefore asked  for an ombudsman decision. 
Ref: DRN41630982my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs Ss frustration over the handling  of these vouchers, especially as she 
indicated that she had recently  undergone  surgery so found  getting into store to be more 
difficult and painful  than it would normally have been. 
I also understand that she does not think that the amount  offered is reflective of her time in 
dealing with this matter.
I do, however,  agree  with the adjudicators view. 
I note that Mrs S contacted Marks & Spencer  initially and a reasonable resolution was 
promptly arranged. This was for her account  to be credited in place  of the hot drinks,  and the 
vouchers to spend to be reissued. The agent  also credited Mrs S with 1000  loyalty points at 
this time. I think Marks & Spencer acted reasonably at this contact. 
Mrs S then chased up her complaint and Marks & Spencer credited her with a further £20 to 
reflect that some of her messages had not been  responded  to. I think this was reasonable.
When Mrs S tried to use the replacement vouchers  she experienced difficulty in that staff did 
not appear to know how to apply the vouchers, and then when a manager  became involved 
the vouchers appeared to have already been  redeemed. 
I can understand that this was frustrating and that Mrs S found the time taken to resolve  this 
frustrating, when she wanted to make  a purchase and use the vouchers. 
Marks & Spencer acknowledges that this experience was frustrating, and that the issue  with 
the vouchers took up Mrs Ss time. It therefore  credited  the value of the vouchers to her 
account, so that she would  not have to use any further replacement vouchers, and added a 
further £50 compensation to her account.  
Mrs S was not happy with this and pursued her complaint,  ultimately being told in mid June  
that the complaint had reached  an end. 
I note that the credits  to reflect the hot drinks and the £53 vouchers were in place of 
vouchers that Mrs S was entitled  to, but crediting the amount to Mrs Ss account  gave her 
greater flexibility in how to spend that amount. I think this was reasonable. 
Marks & Spencer also credited Mrs S a further £70 compensation, and points equivalent  to 
£10. I again think  this was reasonable to reflect  Marks  & Spencers  failings, and was 
proportionate to the value  of the vouchers  involved.  
Whilst I realise this will be disappointing  to Mrs S, I think Marks & Spencer has acted 
reasonably and I do not think it would be fair to ask it to do anything  further. As a result I do 
not uphold the complaint. 
Ref: DRN41630983my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint and do not ask Marks & 
Spencer Financial  Services  Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4163098