K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Z complain  that Bank of Scotland plc removed the flexible facilities from their 
mortgage when  they released part of the security. 
background
Mr and Mrs Z took out this mortgage with Bank of Scotland in 2007.  The mortgage offered 
flexible facilities, such as drawdowns, payment holidays and over (and under)  payment  
options.
On 17 July 2018 a third party acting  on behalf  of Mr and Mrs Z wrote to Bank of Scotland to 
ask that part of the security for the mortgage  be released. I quote My client  wishes to 
change the boundary of your security as he has realized that the boundary line to the South 
of the property is incorrect. He has spoken  with his solicitor and the solicitor  is happy to 
amend the title. However, clearly  you need to approve this!
Bank of Scotland said it was willing to consider this and asked that Mr and Mrs Z instruct 
solicitors to carry out the work. A re-valuation of the property was also needed, which  came 
in at £4.5m.  The mortgage at the time the request was considered  was over £4.3m; coming  
in at a loan to value  of over 97%.
On 19 November 2018 Bank of Scotland wrote to Mr and Mrs Zs appointed solicitor  (who 
has also brought this complaint on Mr and Mrs Zs behalf).  In that letter  it said Please note 
that it is a condition of a part release of security that flexible facilities are removed when the 
release document has been  signed.
Mr and Mrs Z then contacted Bank of Scotland on 10 December 2018 to request  another  
drawdown and were told the flexible facilities had been withdrawn. Unhappy  with that they 
raised a complaint. Bank  of Scotland said it had told Mr and Mrs Zs solicitor that the flexible 
facilities would be withdrawn.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs Zs solicitor  didnt agree and so its 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr and Mrs Z wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because  Ive not considered  
it but because  I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
The first party that wanted to vary the contract was Mr and Mrs Z when they asked Bank  of 
Scotland to release part of the land that had been  put forward as security for this mortgage. 
When they asked  to vary the contract in that way, Bank of Scotland  has the right to decide 
the terms upon which it was willing to accept  that variation.  The title Bank of Scotland agreed 
the mortgage against included the land and the outbuilding standing on it, so by asking  to 
release that part of the title Mr and Mrs Z were  asking to vary their mortgage contract.
Ref: DRN42530582Mr and Mrs Zs solicitor  has said The only additional observation and comment our client  
has made by telephone  this afternoon, is that in effect, the mortgage  was changed from a 
product akin to interest free, to repayment, without  clear notice of the implications as any 
reasonable borrower would have expected.
But this mortgage  was never  interest free, or anything akin to it. According to the 2007  
mortgage offer the interest rate is Bank of England base rate plus 0.84%, so thats currently  
an interest rate of 1.09%  (clearly not interest free or anything akin to that).  The repayment 
basis of the mortgage hasnt changed  either  in terms of interest-only versus  repayment. The 
only thing thats  changed is that the flexible facilities have been removed so Mr and Mrs Z 
now cant borrow back the repayments they make, or take payment holidays and/or 
underpay. The reason  Mr and Mrs Zs payments went up was nothing to do with the removal 
of the flexible facilities as the solicitor seems to believe, but was because Mr and Mrs Z took 
a drawdown (just before the feature was removed) so their mortgage  debt increased.
Mr and Mrs Zs have  referred to the notification as A short line in the final paragraph of a 
letter to solicitors...,  not sufficiently  clear, and  a generic line.
This wasnt a long letter that the solicitor would  need  to study carefully.  It only ran to a page, 
with a couple of lines on the second  page  just providing contact details, including  a phone 
number, for any queries.  So as this was a very short letter, its not unusual that the line in 
question was also a short line. Its in the same  size and type of font as the rest of the letter  
and being the last sentence on the page  (and a paragraph in its own right)  its not hidden  in 
a mass of text. So, its difficult  to see how this could be construed as being  not sufficiently 
clear. And its anything other than a generic line as the letter clearly refers to Mr and Mrs Zs 
mortgage and it states the flexible facilities would be removed.
If the solicitor overlooked  it and/or didnt refer back to Mr and Mrs Z to check that they were 
willing to agree to everything set out in the letter then I cant  hold Bank  of Scotland  liable for 
that.
Bank of Scotland had no responsibility to give any more information than that; it didnt need 
to set out the implications, or offer advice.  Mr and Mrs Z knew  what the flexible facilities  were 
as they used them and the letter said the flexible facilities would be removed; so the 
implications seem fairly clear  from that. But if Mr and Mrs Z did need  any further information, 
or wanted to discuss it further, then they could have contacted Bank of Scotland as set out in 
the letter If you have any questions or need more  information, please  call
Bank of Scotland had no responsibility to also write to Mr and Mrs Z directly about this as 
Mr and Mrs Z had appointed the solicitor to act on their behalf. So Bank of Scotland  correctly 
notified the solicitor  of the terms of the agreement, and it was up to the solicitor to discuss 
those terms with its clients, Mr and Mrs Z. 
The solicitor  has said Bank of Scotland didnt give the option to not go through  with the part 
release of security. I agree Bank  of Scotland didnt explicitly give the option  to not go through 
with the part release. But if Mr and Mrs Z didnt want to lose the flexible facilities then the 
obvious thing  would  be for them to tell their solicitor  to not complete the part release, and to 
then phone Bank of Scotland on the number given on the letter to explain that. Had they 
done so before the part release completed - explaining they didnt  want to lose the flexible  
facilities, and that they were willing  to forego the part release  - then Ive no reason, on 
balance, to believe the flexible facilities wouldnt have been reinstated. 
Ref: DRN42530583The solicitor  has also said that Bank  of Scotland didnt  offer to allow everything to be 
reversed when the complaint was made (ie the security be re-added  and the flexible 
facilities reinstated). This was a different  matter  as by now the part release had completed, 
meaning Mr and Mrs Z had varied the contract, and so Bank  of Scotland  was within  its rights 
to hold Mr and Mrs Z to that variation. As the contract variation had been completed by both 
parties, Bank of Scotland didnt have to offer to put the flexible facilities back  on when the 
complaint was made, nor would we order it to do so.
Having reviewed everything, Im satisfied Bank of Scotland  did nothing wrong and so I dont 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Z to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4253058