K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that BUPA Insurance Limited declined Mrs Ls cancellation claim she 
made under her annual travel insurance policy.
background 
Mr and Mrs L held a joint annual travel insurance  policy with BUPA for a number of years.  
Since 2014 this had been for European  cover only. 
On 15 January 2017 Mr and Mrs L booked a holiday to travel outside  of Europe (trip A). The 
travel date for trip A was 15 January 2018.
On 14 February 2017 Mr and Mrs L called BUPA  to renew their annual  cover and upgrade  it 
to worldwide cover, as they had in the past when wanting to travel outside  Europe.
Between the booking of trip A and the renewal call Mrs L had celebrated  a birthday and had 
reached an age where BUPA no longer provide worldwide annual  cover.
In the renewal call BUPA  asks Mr L Are you looking  to renew on the exact same basis or 
would you like to explore any other policy  options today. Mr L responds we are possibly 
considering a trip to the states later on this year.
BUPA then explains it cant provide worldwide cover on an annual  basis  to Mrs L due to her 
age but it can provide  single trip cover, although  as a trip is not yet booked it wont be able to 
provide a quote at this stage.
Mr L then goes on to tell BUPA that he and Mrs L are in the process of booking  a holiday for 
November 2018,  that will take them outside of Europe (trip B), and asks what to do about  
that. BUPA again offers the solution of single trip cover for Mrs L but cant  tell Mr L the cost 
as trip B is too far in advance and it doesnt  have the rates available  yet.
Mr L renews on the following basis: Mr L has annual worldwide and USA cover and Mrs L 
has annual European  only cover.
In November 2018 Mr L suffered a mini stroke (TIA), he called BUPA  to tell it about the 
change in his health and it informed  him that it could no longer offer him cover. Because of 
this Mr and Mrs L cancelled  both trip A and trip B and claimed  for this under the policy.
BUPA paid Mr Ls claim in full for his half of the cost of the holidays, but declined Mrs Ls 
claims as she only had European cover and so wasnt eligible to claim for trips outside of 
Europe. 
Mr and Mrs L complained  about  this and said they hadnt understood that to be the case  and 
didnt feel that this had been  properly explained  to them in the renewal call. They  also said 
that BUPA shouldve  told them long before Mrs Ls birthday that her age would mean  it could 
provide fewer options to her. 
BUPA reviewed the complaint  and agreed  to pay Mrs Ls claim for trip B as a gesture  of 
goodwill. It did this because the trip was discussed in the renewal phone call and so it was 
aware it was being booked  and Mrs L was left uninsured for it because  it wasnt able to offer 
Ref: DRN47037502the single  trip quote at that time.  It paid Mrs L the cost of her half of the trip, minus the cost 
of a single  trip policy and the excess of £100.
It declined to cover trip A as it wasnt aware of it prior to the need to cancel. 
Mr and Mrs L were  unhappy with this so brought their complaint to this service.  The 
investigator partially upheld the complaint. She said:
The way BUPA had paid for trip B was fair
BUPA should refund  Mrs Ls premium  for the annual  European  cover  as she never  
needed it and had no intentions of using  it
BUPA should refund  Mr L for the USA part of his policy as he didnt need to take it 
and probably wouldnt  have if it had been explained he could  add it later if he decided  
to book a trip to the USA.
BUPA acted fairly in declining to cover  trip A as it wasnt aware of it prior to the 
cancellation.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with the investigators findings. They felt BUPA should cover the 
cost of trip A as it was always  their intention to be insured. They argued they wouldve been 
able to do something about  the lack of insurance if BUPA had:
a)let them  know long in advance of Mrs Ls birthday that her age would  now mean 
there would  be limitations to cover that it could offer 
and or
b)let them  know that they may be able to get cover from another provider.
The matter  has now been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks most likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
I understand that Mr and Mrs L feel BUPA  shouldve let them know, before her birthday that 
due to her age she wouldnt be eligible to have worldwide cover in the future. If they already 
had worldwide cover I would agree, as this would  be a change for Mr and Mrs L. But as they 
had both had European only cover since 2014, its not reasonable to expect BUPA to have 
known they would want to upgrade to worldwide cover. So I dont think it needed to do this.
Turning to Mr and Mrs Ls point  that BUPA couldve told them cover may be available  from 
other providers. I agree  that BUPA shouldve done  this during the renewal call that took 
place with Mr and Mrs L, but I dont think that means  BUPA need to cover  trip A because  it 
didnt, let me explain.
During the renewal  call Mr L mentions a potential trip to the USA and trip B which he and 
Mrs L were in the process of booking. At that point  BUPA explains it cant quote for the USA 
trip because  it hasnt yet been booked and cant quote for trip B as it is too far in advance. 
Ref: DRN47037503BUPA were aware that trip B was being  booked and because it effectively told them to wait 
for the rates to come  out, it left Mrs L in a position where she was uninsured.  Thats why it 
retrospectively covered  her claim for trip B, and I am satisfied this was the right thing for it to 
do.
If during the call Mr L had mentioned trip A, Im satisfied that BUPA wouldve provided a 
quote to cover Mrs L for this trip. And if it hadnt  I wouldve expected  it to have covered her 
costs for the same reasons it covered  trip B. And I think, given  the conversation that was 
being had, it wouldve been reasonable to expect  Mr L to have mentioned it.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ls feelings  that companies  dealing with the elderly should be extra  
careful to ensure that everything has been comprehended correctly.  And I accept that this is 
good practice, but I can only consider  the facts of this specific case  when deciding if BUPA 
did anything wrong,  and I dont believe it did, Ill explain. 
I cant see in this case that BUPA was asked to make  any reasonable adjustments for 
Mr and Mrs L, if it had been I think it wouldve been  happy to do so. And having listened to 
the renewal call, Im satisfied that it was clear  in its message that Mrs L was not eligible for 
worldwide annual cover, and there  was no reason for it to believe it needed to do more to 
clarify its position. It follows that I wont be asking it to do anything  more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4703750