K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  that started in 
2004. Miss H says Santander UK Plc mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Miss H says the PPI was presented  to her as part of the mortgage and she thought  her 
application for the mortgage might not be successful if she didnt take it. Because she didnt  
want to jeopardise her mortgage application, she took it out. And I accept  that (around 15 
years on) thats how Miss H remembers  things.  But theres a difference between  Santander  
encouraging her to take out PPI and pressuring her to do so. 
There isnt any persuasive  evidence to support what Miss H is saying. I also note she 
originally told us she didnt remember agreeing  to take out the PPI, which is somewhat 
different to what shes now saying. So its difficult for me to put too much weight on what  
shes said, when Im deciding whats most  likely to have happened.
What I do know is that Miss H was sent a welcome letter that included  details of the PPI. So 
it seems likely Miss H would have known shed taken it out. This letter  talks about Miss H 
choosing to take out the cover, which suggests  she had a choice. And although  Santander 
doesnt have all the paperwork from when Miss H applied for the PPI, I know she would have 
had to complete  a separate application form and direct debit for the PPI, suggesting she 
would have known  it wasnt part of the mortgage.
On balance, I think its more likely  Santander  made  it clear  that Miss H didnt have to take 
out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  
remember this.
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Miss H so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Miss H has provided information about the sick pay she would have received from her 
employer. I agree this would have allowed her to continue with her mortgage repayments  for 
some time if she was off work because she was unwell. But if she was off for an extended  
period of time, her income would reduce considerably. And it wouldnt just be her mortgage 
repayments she would have to meet with this lower income, but all her other usual 
household expenses. Even with her fiancs support, I think she might  have struggled. So 
having PPI that would cover the mortgage  repayments, seems like it would be useful. 
I appreciate Miss H was in good  health  when she took out the PPI, and has continued to be 
so, but there was no way of her knowing, in 2004,  what would happen in the future. The 
Ref: DRN41668912purpose of insurance,  such  as PPI, is to protect against the unexpected. And if Miss H had 
become ill or had an accident that stopped  her working for a long time, the PPI would have 
meant she wouldnt have  to worry about repaying her mortgage.  After all, the consequences 
of missing mortgage repayments can be serious. 
Overall, Im satisfied the PPI was suitable for Miss H.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Miss H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But as Ive explained, I think  its likely she chose to take it out - so it looks  
like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4166891