K820x#13complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr S says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Nationwide has provided a copy of the mortgage  application completed at the time. I can see 
section 9 of the form is titled Protecting your mortgage payments . It details that the PPI is 
free for 12 months and that after the free period, monthly premiums  are collected. It doesnt 
say in this section that the customer needs to take PPI. I can see the level and length of 
cover has been selected  and the monthly  benefit has also been chosen.  Mr S has signed the 
form which I think indicates  he wanted the cover. As Mr S was agreeing  to a mortgage, 
which is a long term and important commitment, I would have expected him to have read the 
form and raised any questions he had at the time before signing in agreement with it. So I 
think Nationwide made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he may not remember  this now many  years later.
Ive thought about what Mr S has said about being made to take out the PPI. But pressure is 
a subjective area and what one person may think is pressure another may not. So without 
stronger evidence of this I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this basis.  
Nationwide has said it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr S got the information he needed  to decide if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
The PPI policy couldve covered Mr Ss repayments  for up to 12 months per claim if he 
became too ill to work, or if he became unemployed. It wouldve paid out in addition  to any 
sick pay or savings he had and for longer than his sick pay lasted at a full rate. And it 
wouldve paid out on top of any redundancy payment he may have  got if he lost his job. And 
as there  couldve been  serious consequences  of not keeping  up repayments  on a debt 
secured against  his home, if Mr S couldnt  work or lost his job then the PPI meant his 
monthly mortgage payments wouldve been  met. And any savings he had could be used for 
other expenses. Mr S has said he had a pension and another  insurance policy.  But these 
were separate products  to PPI and wouldnt have covered  the same  thing  that a PPI policy  
would have. So I still think he wouldve found  the PPI useful should he have lost his job or 
become unwell. 
Ref: DRN42334252Mr S has said he wasnt able to make a claim on the policy when  he was made redundant. 
Ive only looked  at the sale of the policy in this decision. If Mr S has any concerns about  a 
claims aspect,  he will need to raise  this with the insurer in the first instance. 
Mr S has also said he tried to cancel the policy several times.  Nationwide  has said it has no 
records of Mr S trying to cancel  the policy. Nevertheless, and as Ive already said,  Ive only 
looked at the sale of the policy in this decision.  If Mr S still has concerns regarding this, he 
will need  to raise this with Nationwide. 
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said but these points dont change my decision.
Ive also thought about whether Nationwide needs  to give Mr S some  of the commission he 
paid back. The Supreme  Court ruling  and new rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr Ss mortgage 
became a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Nationwide  doesnt 
need to refund any of the commission Mr S paid for the PPI he had with that mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4233425