K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the charges  levied on his account by TSB Bank plc.
background
Mr P has an account with TSB. But hes unhappy  about the amount  of charges thatve been 
applied over the last six years. He says the charges are unfair and have caused him 
financial difficulty. And that TSB hasnt responded  sympathetically to his circumstances. 
Hed like TSB to refund the charges applied over the last six years and remove the default  
recorded on his credit file. 
TSB said itd applied the charges in line with the terms and conditions  of the account. And 
itd written to Mr P on each occasion  his balance exceeded his overdraft and asked him to 
contact it to discuss any concerns with his finances.  But it says Mr P didnt tell it about  his 
financial circumstances until 2017.  And, at this time,  it offered him a temporary overdraft, a 
payment holiday  on his loan and refunded and waived some  charges to help him. So, it 
didnt think itd done anything wrong. 
Mr P wasnt  satisfied with TSBs  response.  So, he contacted our service  and our investigator 
looked into the matter. But she felt TSB had applied the charges within  the terms and 
conditions of the account. She could see that TSB had offered a range of assistance to Mr P 
when he contacted in 2017.  So, she felt TSB had acted positively and sympathetically and 
wasnt required to refund any further  charges.  
She noted that Mr P had stopped making  payment  to his loan and credits  were no longer  
being received  to the current account. And, as a result, Mr Ps loan was now with a third-
party collection agent while his current account  was being passed to TSBs recoveries 
department. So, she thought the information  TSB had recorded  on Mr Ps credit file was an 
accurate representation  of what had happened  with his accounts. And she didnt  think TSB 
was required to remove the information  it had recorded on Mr Ps credit file.
Mr P didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint  afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do sympathise with Mr Ps situation. Hes experienced some financial  difficulty and feels 
TSB has made  things  worse by applying charges to his account. But having thought about 
everything very carefully,  I dont intend  to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
The Supreme Court made a ruling in 2009  which said account  charges cant  be challenged 
on the basis they are too high or excessive. So, I can only look at whether any mistakes 
were made when TSB applied charges to Mr Ps account.
Having looked  at Mr Ps bank statements,  I havent  seen anything  to make  me think  the 
charges were applied  incorrectly . So, I dont think there are any grounds for me to tell TSB to 
refund charges on this basis. But I would expect TSB to act positively and sympathetically 
once Mr P had made it aware of his difficulties. 
Ref: DRN42930542But having  also looked at TSBs records of the contact between Mr P and it, Im satisfied  that 
there is no record of Mr P contacting TSB about his financial  difficulties before 2017.  So, Ive 
looked at Mr Ps account statements and what TSB did at this time. 
Mr P has said that the charges were  the cause of his financial difficulty. But from the activity  
on Mr Ps account, I dont think the charges  were  the sole reason for his financial difficulties.   
But I can see TSB refunded and waived some of the charges applied to Mr Ps account after 
he contacted it. And it also agreed  a repayment holiday on his loan and provided a 
temporary overdraft to help Mr P around this time.  So, Im satisfied that TSB did treat Mr P 
positively and sympathetically. 
I note Mr P has told us hes changed  bank account  providers and TSBs records show that 
his loan and overdraft havent  been  credited with any further  payments to reduce the amount 
owing. As a result, I also note that Mr Ps loan is now in the hands  of a third-party collection 
agent and his current account  is being  passed to TSBs recovery department. In these 
circumstances, I dont  think  TSB has recorded any incorrect information  on Mr Ps credit file. 
So, I wont be asking TSB to remove the default  it has recorded with the credit  reference 
agencies as it has a duty to record such information.
Ive looked carefully  at everything Mr P has said.  And I dont underestimate how his financial 
difficulties have impacted  on him. But, based  on what  Ive seen, I cant  really say TSB has 
done anything  wrong. 
Its not made  any mistakes when  it applied the charges.  And its acted sympathetically to   
Mr Ps circumstances when he told it about his financial difficulties. So, I wont be asking 
TSB to do anything more.  I would  urge Mr P to contact TSB to discuss his outstanding debt 
as previously outlined  by our investigator. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Sandra Greene
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4293054