K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE wouldnt  pay his home  emergency  insurance 
claim and it wrongly took policy premiums  from his account. My references to Great Lakes 
include its agents.
background
Mr A made a claim for a problem with the toilet in his flat. Great Lakes  was unable to find his 
policy due to an administration  error.  It told Mr A to organise the repairs himself, send it the 
invoice and when  it had found his policy he would be reimbursed if the claim was valid.
Mr A submitted an invoice  for £245.  The invoice  was from a company which Ill refer to as Z.
Great Lakes says when  it tried to verify the invoice  it found 'discrepancies. As it couldnt  
validate the invoice it wouldnt pay the claim.
Mr A complained to us. Z had sent him an email  confirming  it had validated  the invoice  to 
Great Lakes and he sent us Zs email. He wants Great Lakes  to pay the claim. He also said 
Great Lakes had ended his policy but still took premium payments  which  he wants  refunded.
Our investigator thought Great Lakes had made reasonable attempts to validate  the invoice 
but couldnt. Great Lakes didnt need  to pay the claim. Mr As bank statement for July 2018 
showed the premiums  Great Lakes took in error had been refunded.
Mr A disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He asked why our investigator hadn't 
considered Zs email  and on what basis Great Lakes said it hadnt validated  the invoice.
Before I made my decision I asked Great Lakes  who cancelled  the policy and if it had on 
what basis. Great Lakes said Mr A cancelled  the policy. I also asked it to send me evidence  
about how many premiums it had taken  in error,  which  Ill refer to below. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr A asked  to speak to me before I made my decision. I havent  contacted  him 
as I have all the evidence I need to make my decision.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
policy premiums
Mr A told us Great Lakes cancelled the policy but its told us he asked to cancel. Whichever 
it was, Great  Lakes  has now shown  us that in May,  June and July 2018 it took the premiums  
by mistake. Its also shown these  were refunded to Mr A on 16 July 2018 and Mr As bank 
statement shows three premiums being refunded that date. So Great  Lakes doesnt need  to 
do anything more.
Ref: DRN44633192claim
Ive see Zs email to Mr A which  says it spoke to Great Lakes and confirmed the content  of 
the invoice was correct. Great Lakes notes  show it did speak to Z about that information. 
However, Ive also seen other investigations Great Lakes carried  out to try and validate the 
invoice. The investigations do show discrepancies. In summary: Zs business  recorded on 
Company House isnt plumbing but a business of a very different nature; Zs social  media 
profiles dont show  it as a plumbing business;  when Great Lakes called the mobile phone 
number on Zs invoice  a women gave it Zs contact number which  was the same  number as 
Mr As number.
Our investigator sent Mr A the call recording of the call between  Great  Lakes and the women  
who gave his number  as Zs contact  number. Mr A hasnt commented  about that call.
Even though  Great  Lakes  did speak  to someone at Z who confirmed the invoice details, Im 
satisfied Great Lakes  also found enough discrepancies for it to reasonably believe Zs 
business doesnt do the plumbing work Mr A was invoiced for. 
Given the overall evidence Great Lakes acted  fairly  and reasonably  in not paying  Mr As 
claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4463319