K821x#15complaint
Mr J has complained about his home insurer, Ageas Insurance Limited, in relation to a 
claim he made to it following a burglary at his home.
background
Mr J was burgled in 2013. Ageas, following some investigations, initially  refused the claim.  
Mr J challenged Ageas  decision  and in 2016/2017 the claim was accepted  with Ageas 
making a total settlement to Mr J of £10,337.51.
Mr J felt the settlement  was insufficient  in terms of the value of the jewellery items and a TV 
that had been stolen.  It also didnt  include interest which  Mr J felt Ageas should  reasonably  
pay. He was also unhappy that Ageas loss adjuster had disposed of a camera and memory  
card while the claim was being investigated and declined which had contained evidence of 
items owned. Ageas had provided  a settlement for the cameral itself, but not the memory 
card, and that didnt resolve the issue of lost evidence and sentimental images.
Ageas said it had settled  on the basis of half of the cost of all of the jewellery items as it had 
concerns that the claim, as a whole, hadnt  been substantiated. Regarding the TV, Ageas 
said it had settled at the price  of £699  as this was the current  (full) cost of a like-for-like 
replacement of the stolen TV. Whilst this had cost more in 2013, it had come down in price  
since and it was fair for it to pay the price as at settlement of the claim. It accepted it had 
wrongly disposed  of the camera. In light of it having  done  that (although it had settled for 
the cost of the camera), as well as to account for interest on the settlement, plus the delay 
and upset caused to Mr J during the claim, Ageas said it would pay £2,500 compensation.
Mr J complained to our service. When  our investigator pointed  out to Ageas that it needed  
to provide a breakdown for the compensation it had offered, Ageas initially said this hadnt 
been offered based on any exact  calculation, it was just a global offer.  Later Ageas said it 
would view the figure of £2,500 as equating  to £500  compensation  for upset for every  year 
of delay of the claim. It said it would calculate interest separately  but then did so based on 
the compensation amount, not the settlement  values. Ageas then said no interest would be 
paid as payment  had been made based  on current replacement prices when the settlement 
was made.  Our investigator remained of the view that £2,500 compensation and interest on 
the settlement  figures should be paid.
Regarding the TV settlement our investigator felt Ageas  had acted fairly. She noted Mr Js 
request for a higher  settlement based on the fact that the payment was delayed but 
explained that compensation is given for upset caused by delay  not an increased 
settlement. She felt the price Ageas  had paid would reasonably allow  Mr J to replace the 
TV. Mr J explained though that he had replaced  the TV previously  initially with a cheap 
alternative as he had limited funds,  and later with a similar model. He said he understood 
the point about compensation but still felt Ageas should pay more in settlement for the TV.
In respect of the jewellery items our investigator  pointed out that Ageas  basis  for settling 
made little sense, when  considering that Ageas  had only treated the jewellery items in this 
way. She noted  evidence  regarding the jewellery  had been provided by Mr J  such as 
boxes and photos, although no receipts  and felt this was sufficient to demonstrate  
ownership, and Ageas  hadnt argued  the value of the items  hadnt been shown. She felt it 
was unfair  for Ageas to limit its settlement in this respect; in her view it simply didnt have 
reasonable grounds to do so. She said it should pay for the jewellery items in full.
Ref: DRN41548672Whilst Mr J was prepared to accept  our investigators findings, Ageas  was not. The 
complaint was passed to me for a decision to be made. I was minded to uphold  the 
complaint and make a specific award for the jewellery. I was minded to find slightly 
differently from the investigator regarding the TV. I felt Ageas should pay for a replacement 
memory card, pay interest and compensation. 
Both parties  have now responded to my provisional findings. Mr J accepted them.  Ageas 
objected to paying interest  over the whole  claim period. My provisional findings, Ageas 
objection and my response  are set out below  as part of the findings of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I said provisionally:
jewellery
When Ageas  accepted  the claim it appointed specialists to assess the jewellery  element of 
it. The specialists noted there was little evidence to show the nature of the items  claimed  
for. There was a photo of at least one of the rings  claimed for and it isnt clear  if this wasnt  
shared with the specialist, or if the images  were just not of good enough quality  to show  the 
worth of the ring(s). In any event the specialists discussed the items with Mr J and using 
their expertise, and based on the evidence  gathered  from talking to Mr J, set out values for 
the claimed for items.
Mr J claimed for just six items of jewellery. None of which were particularly expensive,  
according to the valuation  of the specialists,  or, in my view, out of line with his lifestyle, in 
terms of nature or price.  The most expensive was a curb chain necklace, the cash 
replacement value for which was set by the specialist at £1,600. The total value for all the 
items was said by the specialist to be £3,461.20.
When Ageas  discussed with the loss adjusting company what  settlement was to be made  in 
respect of the jewellery Ageas said:
With regards to the jewellery aspect we would  want to settle  on a substantiation basis. 
However, if the loss adjuster has commented  that the amount and style of jewellery being 
claimed for was in keeping with [Mr Js] lifestyle then I think it would be unreasonable  to 
dismiss this part of the claim in its entirety. We should look to seek  photographs of the 
items in [Mr Js] possession or past valuations. If none of this is available then we should 
look to settle on a 50% basis  which  we would consider fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
The reference Ageas  makes  here to settling  on a substantiation basis is, I think, in 
reference to concerns it had about the claim.  This phrase normally  means  strict proof, such  
as receipts, must be provided to evidence ownership. What is interesting  to me is that on 
the one hand Ageas says it wants to settle in this way, but then accepts it might not be fair 
to do so, but then goes  on to say it will still want a fairly high burden of proof to be provided 
by Mr J (photos and valuations).
Ref: DRN41548673Even where  claims are handled reasonably and in good time this service  will often say an 
insurer should be flexible  about the proof  it will accept  to evidence ownership.  Only in 
limited circumstances  will we say its fair for an insurer to decline or reduce payment unless 
strict proof is provided. Im not satisfied  such circumstances existed  here.
We also often take the approach that where a good  proportion of the claim has been 
substantiated in some way, wed expect everything to be accepted,  even if there is no proof 
at all regarding some items. Thats because we accept that the average homeowner  
doesnt hold proof, either in the form of documents or other  items  that might  show 
ownership, for every item they own.
Out of the six items of jewellery  Mr J showed  he had boxes for two of the items (a bracelet 
and a watch). These were  shown  at the time of the loss so I think  its likely  they were  
related to the items  stolen  and can reasonably  be said to evidence Mr Js ownership of 
them. Mr Js mother  provided a witness statement confirming a necklace had been  gifted  to 
Mr J for a birthday and two rings had been left to him by his late father. There was a photo  
of Mr Js father wearing the rings  too. As Mrs J was prepared to commit her testimony  to a 
witness statement Im satisfied its reasonable to rely on this as proof of ownership for these  
three items of jewellery. That leaves just one item without substantiation; a necklace.
I havent seen  the loss list as a whole but piecing together the breakdowns  set out in Ageas 
file for payments  it seems there were 29 items claimed for in total, including one amount of 
cash and the six jewellery items. Ageas accepted  that 15 of the 23 non-jewellery  items had 
been substantiated by Mr J as being owned  by him. And Ive explained above why I think  
Mr J showed reasonable proof regarding the five jewellery items. Therefore, 20 items out of 
29 have been  reasonably  substantiated. Thats sufficient in my view to say it should 
reasonably be accepted  that the one remaining item of jewellery  should  be accepted too.
For completeness, Id also add that this wasnt a case of a claim being handled reasonably  
by Ageas. It handled  things poorly and I think its likely that had an impact  on Mr Js ability  
to provide substantiation.  He may well have  had more to show if the memory card and/or 
camera hadnt been lost. Although well never  know for sure.  And if time hadnt passed  due 
to Ageas unfair decline of the claim, Mr J may have  been able to find more  evidence from 
friends and family to show Ageas the items hed lost. Ageas likely did prejudice his position  
in this respect. But, as I say, I add this for completeness. My view (currently) is that Mr J did 
do enough to substantiate his claim and Ageas reduced settlement for the jewellery was 
unfair and unreasonable. It will now have to pay the remaining amount of £1,7230.60 to
Mr J. I deal with interest below.
TV
If Mr J had had no outlay  for replacing the TV, then Id likely agree Ageas belated  
settlement had been fair. However because it unfairly declined  the claim in 2013 Mr J had 
to pay for a replacement TV out of his own pocket.  Because of the position  Ageas  left him 
in he couldnt  afford  to buy a like-for-like item at that time. So he bought a lower spec model 
which was cheaper.  Later he replaced it with a similar model to the one that had been 
stolen.
Ageas, by virtue of its policy and in any situation  where it fails a policyholder, needs to put 
them back  in the position they would have been in but for the loss in question. Here, if 
Ageas hadnt  failed  Mr J, hed have benefitted  from the policy by receiving funds at an 
earlier stage to replace  his stolen TV. Because Ageas failed him he had to pay for 
Ref: DRN41548674replacements out of his own pocket. Ageas should  now, subject to reasonable evidence  of 
that outlay being provided, reimburse Mr J what he paid for the two TVs less the £699 
settlement figure it has already paid. Ill deal with interest later in this decision.
To be clear, if evidence of Mr Js actual outlay  cant be provided, I wouldnt be minded to 
make Ageas pay anything  more.  It wouldnt be fair to make it pay more merely because  the 
prices at the time of the loss were higher. Not when Mr J didnt have such  an outlay. The 
upset and inconvenience he had because Ageas didnt settle the claim as it should have 
done are dealt with by virtue of the compensation payment/award.
memory (SD) card
Ageas loss adjuster took a camera away with him after visiting  Mr Js property in 2013. 
Notes from the time record that the camera contained an SD card.  Later  the adjuster 
disposed of the camera. Mr J was told about this but not until afterwards and when he 
asked about the memory  card the adjuster said he didnt recall having  seen one. Ageas 
paid for the cost of replacing the camera.
I think Ageas  reasonably  needs to provide or pay for a replacement  memory card.  It seems  
likely this was taken  from Mr Js home by its loss adjuster and it hasnt been returned to 
him.
under insurance
I see from Ageas file that, at one time the loss adjuster did raise a concern regarding under 
insurance. He said if further payments were accepted as being  due the level of insurance 
might need  to be considered. The cover was arranged with a £15,000 sum insured  and the 
29 items claimed for came to not much less than that.
Ageas knew the values  concerned before it accepted the claim and it did make further 
payments following the loss adjusters  advice  but didnt seek  to look at the level of cover  
offered by the policy.
At this juncture I think its too late to look into this at all now.  Ageas was aware  of the 
possibility that the policy sum insured might not be enough to replace all Mr Js possessions 
but didnt look into this any further,  and still moved to settle the claim in full (to the level it 
felt was fair).
interest
This service has, over many years, often required insurers to pay interest  on settlement 
amounts from the date of loss. Even when the insurer later provides settlement sufficient to 
allow new items to be purchased. Here it is clear to me that Mr J was without the benefit  of 
settlement of his claim for some time and, at various  points some  or all of the items were  
replaced by him, from his own funds. I wouldnt expect Mr J to have proof of all or even any 
of that after all this time.  And given it is Ageas failure to handle the claim properly at the 
outset that led to the delayed payment he shouldnt lose out as a result   which  he likely 
would do if I were to say Ageas only needs  to pay interest on replaced  items from the date 
of the replacement (because  he probably  couldnt show  when this was). In this case Ageas 
failed Mr J and I cant see any good reason  not to make it pay interest* on the claim 
settlement figure from the date of loss.
Ref: DRN41548675Ageas made three payments to Mr J totalling £10,337.51.  So interest* will have  to be 
applied to the three individual  sums  from the date of loss until each was paid. Ageas will 
also have to pay interest*  on any additional sum paid following my final decision  (should it 
remain the same)  for the jewellery,  TV and memory  card. Also from the date of loss until 
settlement.
Ageas noted the claim was made in 2013 and when it declined it, Mr J let the issue  lie 
dormant for two years before challenging its decision. Ageas, therefore, felt it would be 
unfair on it if interest were  awarded  dating  back to the date of loss. It said it could have 
settled it earlier if Mr J hadnt  waited  so long to raise  his objection.
I understand why Ageas  doesnt  want to pay interest over the period I suggested. But 
I dont agree that to make  that award would  be unfair. Ageas accepts that it got its initial 
claims decision wrong. I havent seen anything that makes me think  Mr J knowingly and 
unreasonably delayed the progress  of his claim or complaint. The error that led the parties 
to this point was Ageas when it unreasonably declined  the claim. Im satisfied my award of 
interest is fair.
I concluded my provisional findings by looking at compensation:
compensation
Ageas originally declined the claim on the advice  of its loss adjuster. Hed raised  various 
concerns about  the claim. But when  challenged Ageas accepted  that his concerns  werent  
reasonable grounds for it to have declined the claim outright.
I accept that Mr J was very upset  at the point Ageas declined the claim. I also accept  that in 
the months following he was caused  a lot of distress and inconvenience because  of being 
left without any settlement  for a claim which should, its clear now, always  have  reasonably 
been settled in full. Even  if that initial settlement had been a little lower than Mr J would like, 
as happened in 2016/2017 when the claim was accepted and settled for, hed at least  have 
had some cushion against the loss he faced following  the burglary.
As it was Ageas left him with nothing. Mr J then either went  without those belongings or 
paid for some, from his own pocket as and when he could, sometimes  having  to 
compromise on quality  too.
Ageas only accepted the claim following a challenge. And then a fair portion of the 
settlement had to be fought for. Its initial  payment was less than £4,000 with two payments 
following that to make the total it had paid when the complaint  was made to us. And Ive 
found that settlement was still light of the total Mr J was, in my view, fairly  entitled to.
The debate about the settlement,  prior to our involvement was quite lengthy. But I bear in 
mind that Mr J was shielded from a lot of that because hed appointed a loss assessor  to 
act for him.
Im mindful though  that it is only now, some  six years  after the loss that Mr J is going to 
receive full settlement for some items  (if my final decision remains  the same  and is 
accepted by Mr J). Im sure that delay  has caused him upset. Not least  as he shouldve 
been able to put the incident  that led to the claim behind him by now (but arguably cant  
with the claim still outstanding).
Ref: DRN41548676Theres the loss of the camera  and photos  too to take into account.
Ageas has offered £2,500  to make up for all of this. The reasoning behind that figure isnt 
quite clear. But as a service we dont usually break our compensation awards down into £X 
amount for this upset or £Y amount per year of delay. Rather  we look at the upset which 
resulted from avoidable  delays  caused by, and failures of, the insurer,  across the period in 
question, and determine what  we think a fair and reasonable  sum to make up for all of that 
is. On this occasion, I think £2,500 is fairly  and reasonably due to Mr J.
As Ive explained, Ageas delays and failures have had a significant and long-lasting impact 
on Mr J. That level of upset warrants, in my view, the compensation award I intend to 
make.
overall
The parties, in the main,  accepted my findings.  So my provisional findings, as set out 
above, now form the findings of this final decision.  Regarding interest, as explained above, 
Ive considered Ageas objection, but it hasnt changed my view on the fair outcome. 
Therefore, my response on that aspect  completes  my findings of this, my final decision.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I intend to require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr J:
£1,730.60 in final settlement  for the stolen jewellery.
If proof of purchase  is reasonably shown, an additional amount to reflect the difference 
between the settlement it made for his TV of £699 and the total cost he incurred for 
buying two replacement TVs, as explained  above.
An amount to replace  the lost memory card; or provide a replacement  to him.
An amount equivalent to interest* on all the settlement sums previously paid and those  
now due pursuant to this decision.  Interest*  will have to be applied  to each settlement 
sum from the date of loss, until the settlement was/is paid.
£2,500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Ageas Insurance 
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr J, it should 
tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr J a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4154867