K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK PLC (Santander) froze his account then closed it and
refused to release the funds held within that account.
background
Mr A had a current account with Santander. On 22 October 2018, he received a payment of
£9,000 into his account. Mr A withdrew  £2,000, then Santander blocked his account and
asked him to provide documentation to evidence his entitlement to the £9,000.
Mr A told Santander the money was from the sale of a van he owned and submitted
evidence for Santander to consider.  Santander  carried out a review  and decided  to withhold
Mr As funds  and close his account,  giving him 30 days notice to make alternative  banking
arrangements. Mr A complained, saying he was unhappy that Santander wouldnt release
his funds.
Santander issued  a written response  on 14 November  2018. It said it had acted in
accordance with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked and closed his account.
And that Mr A could  contact our service  if he remained unhappy.
Mr A rejected Santanders outcome and brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought Santander had acted in line with the relevant regulations  when it
blocked and closed Mr As account. She said Santander carried  out its investigation in a
reasonable timeframe  and advised  Mr A of the outcome  promptly.
She said Santander had offered him £75 in compensation for incorrectly  telling him there
was a balance  of £335.97 that it could release to him. And that she couldnt  fairly ask
Santander to pay any more compensation.
Mr A replied,  saying  Santanders delay meant hed lost the van as well as the payment
because Santander  delayed in raising  its concerns  with him. Our investigator explained that
Santander had no cause for concern  until the day after the £9,000 hit Mr As account, so it
couldnt have  contacted  him any sooner.
Mr A remained unhappy,  so he asked for his case to be reviewed afresh by an ombudsman.
On 5 February 2020, I issued a provisional decision.  In it, I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed Mr As complaint, Im
minded to reach a different conclusion to that of our investigator.
Account block
Im satisfied Santander acted in accordance  with its legal  and regulatory  obligations when  it
blocked and reviewed Mr As account. And that it was entitled to do so under the account
terms and conditions.
I recognise that Mr A says the delay between the payment hitting his account and Santander
raising its concerns,  meant he lost the money and the vehicle. But, having looked at all the
available evidence, I cant reasonably say Santander should have acted more  quickly.
Ref: DRN40106902So I cant say it acted  unfairly in blocking the funds in Mr As account. Santander is entitled
to ask for proof of entitlement to funds,  and to decide what is sufficient. I can see that
Santander isnt satisfied with the evidence Mr A has provided and I wont  be asking it to
release the funds to him, until Mr A has provided  satisfactory evidence.
But I do think it couldve taken action in relation  to the funds more quickly.  Having looked at
the evidence,  it seems that Santander completed its investigation by 14 November 2018. But
it still holds the funds some 15 months later and I havent  seen  anything  to persuade me its
taken reasonable  steps to return them to their rightful owner.
In considering what Santander  should  do to put things right, I have  to assess the impact
Santanders delay  had on Mr A. Because Ive said Santanders error was delaying in
returning the funds to the rightful  owner,  and not necessarily Mr A, I cant say hes lost out
financially. If Santander had acted more quickly, the funds still wouldnt have been returned
to Mr A.
But I do think Mr A has been inconvenienced by the delay, as his complaint has lingered on
a lot longer than it otherwise would  have. He may still have brought a complaint to our
service about where Santander sent the funds, but that would probably have been resolved
much more quickly. And thats  a complaint Mr A may well still bring in the future.
Taking everything into account,  I think Santander should pay Mr A a further £125 in addition
to the £75 it has already offered.
Account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer, so long it does so in a way that
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers  account.
The terms and conditions  of Mr As account   which both Santander and Mr A had to comply
with  say that Santander could close the account immediately and without notice, under
certain circumstances.
On this occasion, Santander went beyond  that and gave Mr A 30 days notice of the
intended closure. So, having  considered the evidence Ive been  provided, Im satisfied
Santander acted  in accordance with its terms and conditions when it closed Mr As account.
I understand Mr As frustration and I know hell be disappointed with what Ive said.  But,
having looked at all of the available  evidence, I dont think I can reasonably  say Santander
has done anything  wrong, save for causing an unnecessary delay. So Im not minded to
uphold Mr As complaint,  save that I am minded  to tell Santander  to pay Mr A a total of £200
to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he experienced.
I asked Mr A and Santander  to provide  any further evidence or submissions. Mr A said that 
Santanders delay  of 24 hours  in contracting him to ask for evidence  meant  he had lost both 
the money, and the van.
Santander accepted my provisional findings  and didnt  have  anything  further to add. 
Ref: DRN40106903my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A says Santander waiting to block his account  until the day after he received the payment 
caused him to lose both the money  and the van.
Ive thought about what Mr A said and Ive looked  at all of the evidence  from both parties  
again. Having  done so I think  Santander acted reasonably in reviewing and blocking Mr As 
account when  it did. And I cant say that it should have done so sooner. In order  to do what  
Mr A says Santander should have done,  it would have had to carry out its review and contact 
Mr A immediately on receipt of the funds. And Im not persuaded it could reasonably have 
done so, in this case.
But I do think Santander should pay Mr A a total of £200 in compensation to recognise  the 
distress and inconvenience its subsequent delays caused him.
my final decision
My final decision is that, for the reasons set out above, Santander UK PLC should pay Mr A 
a total of £200 in compensation, including the £75 it has already offered him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Alex Brooke-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4010690