K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that a new car he acquired with a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) from 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  (BMWFS) is of unsatisfactory quality. 
background
Mr R got this car in January 2018.  He found  the brakes to be really noisy  and contacted the 
dealer when hed driven  around 400 miles.  The dealer said Mr R should mention this at a 
routine running  in service due about six weeks later. Mr R did that and the dealer cleaned  
the brakes but the noise  persisted. Mr R took the car to a different dealer (the one that 
supplied the car) the following month where  the brakes were removed, checked, cleaned,  
deglazed and brake pad paste was added. This seemed  to resolve the problem but Mr R 
was told the noise might come back. It did, very quickly, and Mr R stopped  driving the car. 
He told BMWFS he wanted  to reject it in May 2018. 
BMWFS said this car is made to operate at high speeds so the brakes are manufactured 
especially for heavy  braking under  'duress'. It acknowledged this means there  is some  brake  
noise but considered this was operational and characteristic  of the vehicle. BMWFS didnt 
accept the car had a fault and wouldnt allow  Mr R to reject  it. 
Mr R says he was told at the outset that some brake systems can be noisy  but the brakes on 
his car werent the same sort of brakes.  He's concerned about safety and he has lost faith in 
the car. He wants BMWFS to take the car back and provide a refund and compensation so 
he referred his complaint  to our service.   
One of our investigators  reviewed the evidence which includes videos of the brakes 
squeaking provided by Mr R and information about  work done to the car. Hes satisfied a 
problem with the brakes was highlighted very early on. He doesnt think  the sound the 
brakes make should reasonably be expected in a new prestige vehicle. He considered  
relevant brochures  and specifications  but he cant see that these say this noise should be 
expected during normal use. He thinks its inconsistent to suggest theres nothing wrong, 
given the volume  and frequency  of the sound. And he finds it unlikely this is characteristic  
of the car - in light of the steps taken  by the dealer to try and eradicate the noise. 
He thinks the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. Given work done 
previously and the inconvenience further  work is likely to cause, he considers BMWFS  
should take the car back, end the finance  agreement and return Mr Rs deposit. Hes 
satisfied Mr Rs use of the car was likely  impaired due to concerns about the brakes - as hes 
only driven the car about 6,000  miles,  which is well below the contractual  mileage. He says 
BMWFS should also refund 30% of all of the monthly  payments  made,  pay Mr R £150  
compensation for impaired use, distress  and inconvenience, pay interest on the refunds and 
remove any adverse information  from Mr R's credit file. 
BMWFS accepts the brakes make a noise but it doesnt  agree this is a fault. It says (in 
summary):
the dealer  was unable to find a fault with the brakes but tried to assist Mr R by 
cleaning them;
this wasnt a repair attempt - the brakes would have been replaced not cleaned if 
they had been found to be defective;
Ref: DRN40462202this particular model is a performance  vehicle so the brakes  must be able to perform  
to a certain standard under higher stresses to bring it safely  to a stop;
the car is fitted with performance  brakes which are designed and manufactured 
differently to standard brakes.  The disc is manufactured to a larger thickness  band  
which means, the disc, rotors and clipper  are closer together.  The squeaking sound  
is produced by friction  between these and it has no bearing on performance;  and
Mr Rs vehicle was tested by manufacturer approved technicians  who couldnt find 
any mechanical defects  with the brakes.  
BMWFS referred  to another complaint about  brake noise brought to this service  by a 
different consumer. It considers the facts  were similar to this one yet the investigator came  to 
a different view. BMWFS thinks it is unreasonable to allow  Mr R to reject  this vehicle as 
theres no fault and he had full use of the car. It asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter. 
my provisional decision
I considered all of the available  evidence  and issued my provisional  decision on December 
2019. My provisional  findings are set out below in italics. 
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I looked at the other complaint BMWFS  referred  to. I note that involved a different model 
which was second  hand at the point of supply  and cost significantly less that Mr Rs vehicle. 
That complaint was not considered by an ombudsman  and no decision was issued. 
This service provides informal dispute  resolution.  And, as BMWFS  (in particular) may be 
aware, our decisions do not create binding precedents. We consider each complaint on its 
individual facts  and merits.  And I make  my decision here based  on what I think is fair and 
reasonable - in all of the circumstances of this particular complaint. In reaching  my decision I 
must take account  of relevant law (amongst  other  things). Im satisfied relevant law in this 
case includes the CRA. 
Mr R acquired  this car with a finance  supplied by BMWFS. And BMWFS  was required (under 
the CRA) to ensure that the car was of satisfactory  quality when Mr R got it. Section 9 of the 
CRA says (insofar as its relevant here) 
(2) The quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the standard that a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory, taking account of -
(a) any description of the goods,
(b) the price or other consideration for the goods (if relevant), and
c) all the other relevant circumstances (see subsection (5)).
(3) The quality of goods includes their state and condition; and the following aspects (among 
others) are in appropriate cases aspects of the quality of goods -
(a) fitness for all the purposes for which goods of that kind are usually supplied;
(b) appearance  and finish;
(c) freedom from minor defects;
Ref: DRN40462203(d) safety;
(e) durability.
(4) The term mentioned  in subsection (1) does not cover anything which makes the quality of 
the goods unsatisfactory -
(a) which is specifically drawn to the consumers attention before the contract  is made,
(b) where the consumer  examines the goods  before the contract is made, which  that 
examination ought  to reveal, or
(c) in the case of a contract  to supply goods by sample, which would have been apparent  on 
a reasonable examination of the sample.
(5)The relevant circumstances mentioned in subsection (2) (c) include any public statement 
about the specific characteristics of the goods made by the trader,  the producer or any 
representative of the trader or the producer
The level of quality  that is satisfactory will vary according to circumstances. In the case of a 
vehicle, it is generally  reasonable to consider the age, cost and mileage at the point of 
supply. In this case, the car Mr R got was new. The basic model  cost about £95,000 but 
Mr R paid for extras that took the price up to nearly  £115,000. He borrowed about £75,000 
from BMWFS under  the HPA and agreed to repay this over 48 months at around £850  a 
month.  
I think Mr R had a reasonable expectation that this car would be free from faults at the point 
of supply - and meet a higher standard than might  reasonably be expected  of less expensive  
vehicles.   
the noise made by the brakes on Mr Rs car
There appears to be no dispute  that this car makes a noise on braking. Mr R finds  the sound 
unacceptable - both in terms  of the nature of the sound itself and the volume and frequency 
with which  it occurs. Im satisfied he reported hearing this noise  within weeks  of getting the 
car. And I dont think its likely to have  resulted  from wear and tear or anything that Mr R did. 
BMWFS seems to accept  that. It says the sound is characteristic of the car. And it is 
caused by the specific  specification of the brakes which are manufactured especially to 
ensure that the car is able to stop when travelling at high speeds - because its a 
performance vehicle.   
Ive had the benefit of watching some  videos supplied  by Mr R that show his car travelling at 
various speeds. I think this footage seems to capture the sound that hes concerned about 
fairly well and the noise can best be described as a shrill whirring or squeaking sound. As far 
as I can see, the brakes make this noise routinely - even at relatively low speeds. 
I dont think most people would expect brakes  to make this sort of sound in the usual course 
of events. I find it understandable  that Mr R was unhappy. I can see why he was concerned 
that the brakes on his car might be defective  in some way and took the car to two different 
dealers for checks.  
the work  done  on Mr Rs car
Ref: DRN40462204Both dealers seem to operate as main  dealerships for the relevant manufacturer so I would 
expect the management, salespeople and technicians  to be familiar with this model. If the 
noise Mr Rs car makes is normal for this particular type of car, then Id expect the dealers 
to have mentioned  this at the time. Its not clear to me if they did. But, I accept its not 
unreasonable for a dealer  to agree to check an essential - and safety related - part like 
brakes, when a customer raises an issue. 
However, if no fault was found - which BMWFS says was the case  here- I wouldnt expect 
any remedial action  to be taken. With this in mind,  Ive considered the evidence about  what  
was done to Mr Rs car carefully. The evidence we have about the investigation is limited 
essentially to what Mr R told us, customer contact notes supplied by BMWFS and one 
internal invoice. 
Mr R says the manufacturer sent a specialist  technician  who went  for a test drive in the car 
and agreed the brake noise was unacceptable. The customer  contact notes - which seem to 
be contemporaneous and relatively detailed  - reflect this. Entries  in June and July 2018 say 
Mr R
reported squeaky  breaks after a monthhed taken the car to two retailers  but a fault 
initially could  not be confirmed so he had a tech ride with him and the squeak could be 
heard. They  put grease on wheels and this helped but in less than a day the squeak 
returned. 
Those notes go on to say brake pads were checked  and cleaned  on 25 April 2018 and both 
front brakes were cleaned on 30th of the same month. The mileage at this stage was 
recorded as 1930 miles:  
I have also seen an internal invoice from the supplying  dealership  dated 25 April 2018 
which says 
Carry Out Electronic Vehicle Health 
I Inv
c/r on brake squeaking Found relating PUMA
removed front brake pads and checked the absorber of pads,  all ok 
checked brakes for damage,  all ok
checked all bolts and callipers for corrosion, all ok 
cleaned and deglazed all brakes and components
T NOTES
Applied BMW  brake pad paste to individual positions of the brake calliper as well as the
Pads - retested and all ok at time of test
Customer aware noise  may occur
Our investigator asked  BMWFS to provide additional information about  PUMA but it hasnt  
done so. As I understand it, PUMA  refers to the manufacturers problems  and measures 
management aftersales  database which contains information  about reported problems and 
recommended fixes. 
I think the reference to PUMA on this invoice suggests the technician consulted  that 
database as part of the investigation. Then,  as far as I can see, having  checked the 
manufacturers problem  management database,  the technician seems to have  found  
something relevant.  
Ref: DRN40462205The technician went on to remove, clean, de-glaze and lubricate relevant parts. I find it 
difficult to see why he would do that - in a relatively  new car with less than 2,000 miles on 
the clock - if not in an effort to fix a problem.  It would make little sense to undertake  such 
work if the noise complained about  was in fact not unexpected or due to a fault.  
I appreciate BMWFS considers this work  was done  simply  in an effort to assist or 
appease Mr R. But, I am not persuaded that explanation is consistent  with the nature of 
investigation and the remedial work undertaken. On the current evidence,  I am minded to 
find it is more likely  this was an attempt  to repair a fault. 
satisfactory quality
BMWFS says the noise is normal and characteristic for this particular this model.  As Ive 
explained above, I think most people generally  expect brakes to work  without  significant  
noise most  of the time.  I consider the noise here is sufficiently out of the ordinary to render 
this car of unsatisfactory  quality  - which is consistent with the dealers attempts to fix the car. 
But, even  if I were  to accept this noise  is supposed to be present, I would expect such  a 
significant and unusual braking sound to be drawn  to the attention  of potential customers 
pre-sale. 
I think the manufacturer here recognises  that unusual noise should be flagged  up to 
prospective purchasers in advance - because I can see it has done that in online information  
provided for some other models. If, as BMWFS says, noise on braking is characteristic for 
the model Mr R got - then Id expect that to be pointed out to potential customers of this 
model as well. 
Ive looked at the manufacturers brochure for the 2018 model of Mr Rs car (which  is also 
available on the internet). This is 26 pages  long and sets out the vehicles specification in 
some detail. It also refers to the cars  high standard  of manufacture, breath-taking 
aesthetics and outstanding elegance. Theres no reference to the car making noise on 
braking that I can see. In the absence of such information clearly displayed in relevant 
literature - its difficult to see how Mr R could reasonably have been alerted to the fact that 
the brakes on his car would make the sound that they do. 
I have seen nothing  to show that this noise impacts on the cars roadworthiness. But, I think  
most people  would it off-putting, at best - and many,  like Mr R, would consider it worrying.  I 
think this noise would be unacceptable in the average new car - never mind one that cost 
around £100,000. 
On balance overall, I am minded to find the noise is indicative of some sort of issue.  I cant 
be certain what that is exactly, but I dont need to pinpoint a specific  defect to be persuaded 
that this car has something wrong  with it. Taking into account  the vehicles description and 
the high standards which I think Mr R could reasonably have expected from a new vehicle at 
this price, I am minded to find this car was of unsatisfactory  quality  at the point  of supply.  
putting things  right
Working out what amounts to fair redress in this sort of situation is not an exact  science. 
The CRA sets out a number of remedies that are available when goods are of unsatisfactory  
quality. One of those  is to give BMWFS  the chance  to repair. For the reasons Ive given 
above I think the work the work done already was carried out in an effort to fix the car. I am 
satisfied this was unsuccessful - as the noise returned fairly quickly.  And Ive got no reason 
to think any further  repairs  are likely to improve matters in the longer  term. 
Ref: DRN40462206I dont think it is reasonable to expect Mr R to keep this car with noisy  brakes. So I am 
minded to agree with our investigator that he should be allowed  to reject it and the HPA 
should be cancelled  with nothing further  owed. If any adverse information has been recorded  
on Mr Rs credit file I think this should be removed and the account should  be marked as 
settled in full.  
I am minded to find it fair that Mr R should have any deposit refunded  with interest.  
According to the finance  agreement Mr R made  an advance payment of £23,611.35. The 
sales invoice says he traded in two vehicles and paid off some existing finance  when he got 
this car so I would be grateful if the parties could  please confirm exactly what was paid by 
way of a deposit under  the finance.  In the absence of any information to the contrary, I 
intend to require BMWFS  to refund the advance  payment referred  earlier in this paragraph. 
I can see that Mr R had to take the car in several  times for investigations and remedial work. 
I think that was probably inconvenient and its likely to have been  disappointing and most 
frustrating for Mr R to have to drive  this car with such noisy  brakes.  Mr R told us he stopped 
using the car some  months ago because of the noise and his safety concerns. I have seen 
nothing to show that there was a safety issue relating to the brakes on Mr Rs car. But I find 
it understandable  that he was reluctant to continue to drive it in this situation. Im satisfied 
the car had only been driven  around  6,000 miles and I think BMWFS will likely get some  
benefit from this low mileage when the vehicle  is sold.  
From the evidence available so far, I am minded to find the investigators recommendation, 
that Mr R should  have 30% of each monthly payment refunded and £150 compensation for 
his impaired use and upset and inconvenience, seems reasonable. 
I invited the parties  to consider my provisional findings and provide any further  comments or 
information by 23 December 2019.  I explained that I would look at all of the evidence 
available after that date and make my final decision.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The parties have  responded and accepted my provisional findings. In my provisional 
decision I asked the parties to confirm specifically how much exactly  was paid by way of 
deposit. Mr R is not entirely  certain - as he traded  in two vehicles  and he also paid some  
cash towards the deposit. BMWFS says the deposit amount set out in the HPA - £23,611  - is 
correct. I am satisfied this amount seems  to be reflected in the sales  invoice - which says the 
total amount due was nearly £99,000  (inclusive  of a new vehicle discount) and BMWFS 
provided credit of over £75,000, leaving about  £23,611 due from Mr R. 
In light of the above, I see no reasonable grounds  to depart from my provisional conclusions. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require BMW  
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) to 
1.cancel the finance with nothing  further  owed;
Ref: DRN404622072.collect the car at no cost to Mr R;
3.refund  the deposit paid of £23,611.35;
4.refund  30% of each monthly  payment  that Mr R made towards the finance;
5.remove any adverse information  recorded  about the HPA from Mr Rs credit file and 
mark the finance agreement as settled;
6.add interest to the refunds above at 8% simple a year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement; and 
7.pay Mr R £150 for distress and inconvenience. 
If BMWFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax 
from the interest referred to above, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr R a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so that he can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4046220