K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained Metro Bank PLC wont refund him for transactions  which  he didnt 
make.
background
Mr S got in touch with Metro in February  2018. Hed not been able to use his account for 
some time and had only then noticed more than £330 worth  of transactions which  he hadnt 
made. These had happened from March to July 2017 after a replacement card had been  
sent to Mr S on 16 March.
Mr S wasnt  in a position to make these transactions himself.  Metro however felt he must 
have written his PIN down  to allow someone else to use his card.  They wouldnt refund him. 
Mr S brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. She realised Mr S hadnt known a replacement  card 
was about to be sent to him. Hed taken  his existing card with him. She didnt think there was 
any evidence Mr S had been grossly  negligent in looking  after his card and PIN. It seemed 
clear that even if his PIN had been  written down  and Metro  hadnt  been able to show this 
was the case   he had his card with him throughout this period. So hed taken  reasonable 
steps to protect  his card.
She asked  Metro to refund Mr S. They refused  to do this. Theyve asked an ombudsman  to 
consider this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly similar reasons. Ill explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
in this type of case whether the customer was grossly negligent in looking after their card 
and PIN. So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly  in rejecting someones fraud 
complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer  made  the transactions  
themselves or allowed  them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank 
to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both Metro  and Mr S have  told us. 
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made were 
comprehensively covered in our investigators view of 2 July 2019. I dont intend to repeat 
everything that was said there. Except to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly.
The facts  I think that are pertinent to this complaint include:
Ref: DRN40948202Theres no dispute Mr S took his card with him when he went away.  This card 
expired at the end of May 2017. Metro  had sent him a replacement  card.  This only 
ever arrived  at his premises after hed left. 
Metro accept Mr S didnt make these  transactions  himself. This would have been 
impossible. Nor have they suggested  he authorised  these.
Metro says Mr S must have been grossly  negligent in looking after his card and PIN. 
Mr S has told us he wrote his PIN (for another card) in a public place  on a wall. Ive 
seen nothing which suggests this PIN was the same as the one Mr S had for his 
Metro debit card. This seems to me a bit of a red herring  as this PIN seems  to apply 
to another card. Although Ive considered this, its not played a major part in my 
decision.
Mr S lived with his family.  Theres no getting  away from the fact that when you live 
with people, they can be aware  of your PIN even though you take steps to protect it. 
The key aspect of gross negligence is whether someone has acted more  than slightly 
carelessly. This is seen as keeping the card and PIN together and being aware of the 
risks of doing that.
Mr S had his card with him so however his PIN may have been recorded  I dont  
believe the card and PIN were kept together. There is no dispute about these facts.
Ive considered Metros  argument that Mr S was grossly negligent. I dont however believe 
the evidence backs this up. I believe Mr S didnt make or authorise these transactions,  nor 
did his actions constitute gross negligence.
In any case the transactions that took place from 29 March 2017 happened when Mr Ss 
account was overdrawn. Metro know theres  no provision in law for saying  Mr S was grossly 
negligent in those circumstances.
Metro will need to refund the money  Mr S lost to him. Metro hasnt shared a copy  of their 
terms and conditions applicable to Mr Ss account  for us to review.  There may well be a 
provision that allows  them to withhold some of the disputed funds but I cant  see theyve  said 
this is the case.  Theyve had ample time to do this so overall I dont think it would be fair of 
them to do this in the circumstances of this case.  
This must have been a horrible surprise for Mr S when he got home to find he was a victim 
of fraud. Its clear Mr S doesnt have a lot of money and the loss of the money here will have 
had a large impact. Metro has been  given the opportunity to realise what  our service was 
likely to decide. Theyve continued  to argue Mr S was grossly negligent when the facts didnt 
support this. Having thought about this I think its fair they pay him £150 for the distress 
caused.
Ref: DRN40948203my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Metro  Bank  PLC to:
Refund £332.52 to Mr S for the transactions he didnt make;
Add 8% simple interest per year to the transactions from the date they were made 
until the date of settlement; and
Pay Mr S £150 for the trouble caused in not sorting out his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4094820