K821x#15complaint
Mr W says PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four payday  loans  Mr Lender provided to Mr W between August 
2017 and July 2018. Mr Ws borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 12/8/2017 29/11/2017 3 £450 £319.20
2 29/11/2017 31/03/2018 6 £750 £299.00
3 31/03/2018 23/05/2018 12 £1,000 £210.83
4 28/07/2018 outstanding 12 £1,000 £227.33
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ws complaint and thought the loans 3 and 4 shouldnt  have 
been given as Mr W as he had existing pay day loans and was having issues managing his 
finances. Mr Lender disagreed and said it carried out adequate  checks on Mr W. As no 
agreement could be reached,  the complaint assed to me  an ombudsman   for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending  itself
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN44957422I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr W could  sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to 
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably  if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments  without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Lender needed to more  when  it approved loans 1 and 2. Mr 
W didnt disagree with this so I won be making  further findings  on them.
However, our adjudicator  explained that had Mr Lender carried out proportionate  checks  for 
loan 3 and 4 it would have  shown  Mr W was having issues managing  his money.  I also think  
both loans shouldnt  have been  given  to Mr W and Ill explain why.
Mr Lender says it carried out checks on Mr W when he applied  for loans 3 and 4. This 
included gathering details of his income  and existing  commitments. It also says it checked 
his credit report. Mr Lender  says based on this information the loans were affordable for 
Mr W. 
However, I think if Mr Lender had reacted effectively to the information  it had it wouldve 
seen Mr W had other existing short-term loans, all taken out within  months of each other and 
which were running when Mr W applied for loan 3. Based on these loans  and the previous 
loans Mr W had taken with Mr Lender its reasonable to say that Mr W was having issues  
managing his finances. Mr W was also borrowing a larger amount and making  a commitment 
to making loan repayments for 12 months  for loans  3 and 4. It seems  likely he was relying  on 
short term credit  to cover ongoing shortfalls and further lending  was not appropriate. 
So Mr W wasnt in a position  to take on loans 3 and 4 and repay  them in a sustainable  
manner.
Mr Lender has said Mr W repaid loan 3 ten months early so the loan was affordable,  and he 
could repay  it sustainably. But I dont think early repayment demonstrates  this and often 
early settlement of a loan can be an indication of issues with debt management. And in Mr 
Ws case despite repaying  loan 3 early,  he applied for loan 4 for the same amount within  two 
months of early repayment  of loan 3. And I think this demonstrates  that he was having 
issues managing  his finances, and loan 4 remains outstanding. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 3 and 4 and Mr Lender  should put things right.
putting things right   what PDL Finance Limited needs to do
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding debts it should  buy these back  if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Mr Lender is not able to buy the debts back  then Mr Lender 
should liaise  with the new debt owner to achieve  the results  outlined below.
Ref: DRN44957423A.)Mr Lender  should  add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything  that has been refunded.
B.)Mr Lender  should  calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by 
Mr W which  were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr W originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.)Mr Lender  should  remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr W as though they 
had been repayments  of the principal  on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr W 
having made overpayments then Mr Lender should  refund these overpayments  with 
8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Mr Lender should then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D.)If there  is still an outstanding  balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding  loans. If this results 
in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr W. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance  then you should  try to agree  an affordable repayment plan with
Mr W.
Mr Lender should  remove  any adverse information  it has recorded on Mr Ws credit file in 
relation to loans  3 and 4. If Mr Lender has sold any of the loans it should ask the debt 
purchaser to do the same.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ws complaint. PDL Finance Limited should 
pay put things  right for Mr W as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision 
before 7 March  2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4495742