K820x#14complaint
Mr Y and Mrs H complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mr Y and Mrs H in connection with a 
mortgage they arranged in 1987. The policy provided cover  for Mr Y if he couldnt work  
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr Y and Mrs H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Y and Mrs Hs case.
Im aware that Mr Y and Mrs H bought other  PPI policies in connection  with borrowing 
secured on their home.  But for the purpose  of this complaint, I will only consider the policy 
that was sold in connection with the mortgage they arranged in 1987.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr Y and Mrs Hs needs?
-Did Halifax give Mr Y and Mrs H the information they needed  to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether 
Mr Y and Mrs H are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different 
 such as not taking out the policy  if there  hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Y and Mrs Hs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Ive noted what  Mr Y and Mrs H have said about how the PPI was presented when they 
arranged their mortgage in 1987.  They say they were put under pressure to buy it, and that 
they thought they had to take the cover  to get the mortgage they wanted.
Ive also looked  at the paperwork  that was completed when Mr Y and Mrs H applied for their 
mortgage. The application form said:
Ref: DRN49317292Halifaxs Sickness, Accident and Unemployment insurance provides you with peace of mind  
if you are for any unforeseeable reason unable to work
If you wish to join the Scheme enter  the amount of monthly benefit you require
Mr Y then completed a separate  application  form to apply for the PPI.
From what  Ive seen, theres  nothing  to suggest  in the mortgage  application  that taking the 
PPI was a condition of arranging  the borrowing. And as Mr Y had to complete a separate 
application for the PPI, I think this emphasised the fact that it was a separate product to the 
mortgage. 
Overall, I think Halifax made Mr Y and Mrs H aware the policy  was optional and they chose 
to take it out.
Halifax has accepted  that it advised  Mr Y and Mrs H to take out the policy  and it doesnt look like it 
was unsuitable  for them  based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
-Mr Y was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions.  
-Mr Y says he was entitled  to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt  work due to sickness  or 
accident. But the policy would have paid out in addition  to Mr Ys employer sick pay and would 
do so, it seems,  for longer. Having the policy in place would mean Mr Y and Mrs H could use 
Mr Ys employer  benefits to pay for other expenses. So I think Mr Y and Mrs H would have had 
some use for the policy despite their existing arrangements.
-Mr Y wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits,  such as those 
affecting self-employed  people or people  with pre-existing  medical conditions. As he could 
have benefited  from the full extent  of the cover I think it unlikely  he and Mrs H needed better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
-I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr Y and Mrs H before they agreed to buy 
it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have  to pay something for it. The policy was 
competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit.  So I think  it unlikely Mr Y and Mrs H would 
have made a different decision if better  information  about the cost had been  provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr Y and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr Y wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr Y and Mrs H would have 
made a different decision if better  information had been provided   overall, I think  they would still 
have taken out the policy.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr Y and Mrs H because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr Y and Mrs H about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
Mr Y and Mrs H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN49317293my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr Y and Mrs H.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back  to Mr Y and Mrs H any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4931729