K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs A says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  trading as Halifax  mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs A has said it wasnt  made clear to her that the PPI was optional.  Ive seen a copy  
of Mrs As credit  card and PPI application. The form has all of Mrs As details and I 
think its likely it was completed  at the meeting. So I think  its a reasonable reflection 
of what Mrs A discussed with BoS at the time of sale. On the form Mrs A indicated  
that she wanted to buy Credit  Card Repayment  Cover (the PPI). She didnt have to 
do this if she didnt  want the PPI. I think BoS made it clear that Mrs A didnt have  to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she 
cant remember this.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs A so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. Mrs A has said that she didnt have any sick pay. So she seems to have had a 
need for the cover.   
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs A paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give Mrs A back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mrs A now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 February  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4300338