K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains about charges Tesco Personal  Finance PLC (Tesco) made to her credit  
card account.
background
On 24 July 2018, Mrs H purchased  some Euros from her local department store using her 
Tesco credit  card. Before  paying she asked if shed incur any fees or charges. She was told 
by the store  assistant that credit  card providers dont  charge for this type of transaction.
 
In her August 2018 statement she was charged £8.15 in cash handling fees which  included  
£1.31 interest for her currency exchange transaction. Mrs H said if shed known there was a 
charge she wouldnt  have used her credit card as payment. Mrs H was also unhappy that 
two further statements for September and October  2018, included interest charges of £2.24 
and 2p respectively for the same  transaction. She didnt think  this was correct as shed paid 
her credit card bill in full before the due date. So she complained  to Tesco.
Tesco said that in Mrs Hs April statement it gave her notice of variation  showing it changed  
its definition of cash transactions  for credit  card use. This included  currency exchange 
transactions which now incurred a cash handling fee and interest  charges totalling  3.99%. 
So it said it had charged Mrs H correctly.  Mrs H said she didnt recall ever seeing  the Notice  
of Variation statement that Tesco  said it sent to her and she didnt think the charges were  
fair. So she brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator who looked into this matter was satisfied that Tesco had informed Mrs H 
about changes  to the account in April 2018. He also said that any incorrect information the 
department store assistant gave to Mrs H wasnt the responsibility of Tesco. 
Our investigator considered there was no evidence that Tesco  had charged Mrs H wrongly 
for interest  in her September and October  statements.  He explained that Mrs H was charged 
interest from 24 July 2018 (date of the transaction), until she paid her balance  in full on 
27 August 2018.  So he said as interest  in her September  statement covers the period from 4 
August to 27 August 2018,  this is why she was charged interest in this statement. Our 
investigator considered  Tescos explanation  that it charged an additional 2p interest in Mrs 
Hs October statement  because this shouldve been applied  to her previous statement, was 
reasonable. So on balance he didnt think Tesco had done anything wrong and didnt uphold 
Mrs Hs complaint.
Mrs H disagreed with our investigator. She said that Tesco had told her over the phone that 
she wouldnt  be charged anymore interest for the transaction in August. She considers that 
this advice was incorrect. So she asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having considered  Mrs Hs complaint, Im 
not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Tesco sent information to Mrs H in early April 2018.  This included information  about changes 
about to take effect on her credit  card account from 31 May 2018. As set out in its terms and 
conditions, Tesco are required  to provide  at least 30 days notice of any such changes. The 
Ref: DRN42009662Notice of Variation  (NoV)  that was sent to Mrs H in April, said there would be changes to 
what Tesco  classified as cash transactions which included Purchasing non-Sterling 
currency outside of Tesco. It said that from 31 May, these types of transactions would 
incur a cash handling fee of 3.99%. I think that was made  clear  to Mrs H from the NoV.
Mrs H says she cant remember receiving the NoV. But I can see this was sent to her in 
April 2018 by post and email. Given  the evidence provided to us by Tesco  of the mailings it 
sent before  the currency exchange transaction in July, on balance, Im satisfied Mrs H did 
receive notice of the change. And that this was received at least 30 days  before  it took effect 
and three  months  before the currency exchange  transaction.
So all things  considered, I think it shouldve been  reasonably clear to Mrs H from this 
information that certain charges applied  to currency exchange transactions. And as the 
investigator noted, Tesco cant be held accountable for the information Mrs H was provided  
with by the store assistant, who seems to have provided her with some general  advice rather  
than specifically relating to Tesco  credit  card transactions.
I appreciate that Mrs H considers that Tesco have  charged her interest  incorrectly  since the 
August statement. But I agree  with the investigators explanation to her which  is set out in 
summary above. And Ive no evidence to suggest that Tesco  has done anything  wrong  in 
this respect despite  what she was told over the phone.
More broadly, Mrs H thinks Tesco shouldnt be demanding a charge  for these types  of 
transactions. But thats not something  I can comment on. The way in which  businesses  are 
allowed to charge their customers  is the role of the regulator, the Financial  Conduct  Authority 
(FCA), which  deals with broader  issues affecting  large numbers of consumers. But 
unfortunately, the FCA will not normally  deal with individual complaints.
So whilst I appreciate  Mrs Hs strong feelings on this subject, for the reasons Ive set out 
above, Im not upholding her complaint.
my final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4200966