K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP mis-sold him loans without properly checking 
whether he could afford to repay them.
background
Mr M took out three  payday loans and three  instalment  loans with Uncle  Buck between 
October 2014 and July 2015. 
Mr M complained that the difficulties he had repaying these loans affected his health  and his 
quality of life generally.  And he says he ended up having to take out loans to pay borrowing 
with other  payday  lenders.
Heres a table showing  details of his loans  with Uncle Buck:
loan no
start date date paid loan type amount £
contractual repayments
1 30/10/2014
14/11/2014payday 100 1 x £134.95
2 27/11/2014
13/12/2014payday 125
1 x £168.69
3 15/12/2014
15/01/2015payday 100
1 x £134.95
4 02/02/2015
15/04/2015instalment 100
3 x £44.20
5 16/04/2015
15/07/2015instalment 150
3 x £75.49
6 21/07/2015
15/10/2015instalment 150
3 x £73.87
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ms complaint be upheld in part. He thought that 
Uncle Buck  shouldnt have agreed  loans 4 through to 6. Our adjudicator recommended  that 
Uncle Buck  refund the interest  and charges that Mr M had paid on these loans. He also 
recommended that Uncle Buck remove any adverse information about loans 4 and 5 from 
Mr Ms credit file  and remove loan 6 entirely from Mr Ms credit  file. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
Ref: DRN47010112With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Uncle 
Buck should  fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish  that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income); 
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable). There  may even  come a point where the lending history and pattern 
of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.  
Uncle Buck  was required to establish whether Mr M could  sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the  relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting  other reasonable  commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Based on all the information Ive seen, and like our adjudicator, for loans 1-3 I think  Uncle  
Buck was entitled  to rely on what Mr M said about his financial circumstances. And I think  its 
fair to say that the amounts he needed to repay  wouldve seemed relatively affordable  
compared with the disposable income hed declared. 
Mr M didnt  give Uncle  Buck any indication that he was likely  to have problems repaying 
these loans - and he repaid loans 1-3 without  any apparent difficulty, so far as Uncle  Buck 
could reasonably see. Overall, given these repayment amounts, what was apparent  about 
Mr Ms circumstances  at the time, and his borrowing history at that stage with Uncle  Buck, 
I dont think it wouldve been  proportionate for Uncle Buck  to ask Mr M for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing 
the first three loans.  
Mr M didnt  disagree with the adjudicators  opinion  about loans one to three. So I dont think 
there is any ongoing dispute  about  these loans and I dont think  I need to say more about 
these.
Ref: DRN47010113By the time that Mr M applied for loan four, Uncle Buck  could see that this was the third time 
in a row that he was asking to take on a new loan shortly after repaying an earlier one. Loan 
2 started within two weeks of Mr M paying  loan 1, and he took out loan 3 just two days  after 
paying loan 2. 
This was his fourth  loan in around four months.  And the amount that Mr M asked to borrow 
was exactly the same  amount as loan 1. 
Bearing all this in mind, I think Uncle Buck shouldve been  concerned  that Mr Ms finances 
mightve been under pressure and that he was having difficulties managing  his money.
Ive taken into account that loan 4 was repayable over three months  so the monthly 
repayments were less than hed been making  when paying the first three loans. And it looks  
like Mr M told Uncle  Buck  that his monthly outgoings were now just £50  so significantly 
less than they had been. 
I dont think its very likely thats a realistic  figure  for all Mr Ms expenses  it looks  like Uncle 
Buck recorded housing,  fuel, power  and water costs of just £10 for Mr M when it arranged  
this loan  although when  he borrowed other loans, generally Mr M told Uncle  Buck this 
figure was around  £400. 
So I think Uncle Buck  ought to have carried out further checks  to ensure it had a proper 
understanding of Mr Ms finances by the time he was asking for loan 4.  
Uncle Buck  hasnt provided the results of its credit checks nor has Mr M provided a copy  of 
his credit file or his bank statements. So I cant say for sure what Uncle Buck  mightve seen 
on the credit  checks it says it carried out. And I havent seen anything in the information 
available to me which shows that Uncle Buck wouldve decided not to agree loan 4 even if it 
had it done the further  checks into Mr Ms financial circumstances that I think it ought  to have 
carried out. 
So I dont  think Ive seen  enough overall  to say that Uncle Buck  was wrong  to give the first 
four loans to Mr M. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending  history with Mr M with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so Uncle  Buck should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have given Mr M any more  loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ms case,  Id say that this point was reached by 
loan 5 when I think the overall pattern of Mr Ms borrowing suggested that hed become  
persistently reliant  on short term loans.
I say this because:
at this point Uncle  Buck  could see that Mr M had an established  pattern  of borrowing 
again shortly after repaying previous loans. Hed borrowed loan 2 less than two 
weeks after paying loan 1. He took out loan 3 a couple of days after paying loan 2. 
And loan 4 started within  a few weeks of Mr M paying  loan 3. Loan 5 started the day 
after paying  loan 4. 
Ref: DRN47010114By now,  Uncle Buck ought to have realised  Mr M was not managing  to repay  his 
loans sustainably. Mr M had been indebted  to Uncle Buck  for around  six months  
when he applied for loan 5. So Uncle Buck ought to have realised it was more likely 
than not that Mr M was having  to borrow further to cover the hole repaying  his 
previous loan was leaving  in his finances  and that Mr Ms indebtedness  was 
increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ms first loan was for £100 and loan 5 was for £150  half as much  again  as hed 
first borrowed. So, by loan 5, I think Uncle  Buck shouldve realised that Mr M 
probably wasnt borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in income but to meet  an 
ongoing need. In other words, this wasnt money he needed  for an unforeseen 
emergency or temporary cash flow issue  Mr M needed the loan to help cover his 
everyday costs and the outgoings he had to meet.
Mr M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed. And hed been paying 
large amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to Uncle Buck  over an extended 
period. 
I appreciate what Uncle  Buck says about the gaps in lending  and that these were relatively 
small loans  when compared to Mr Ms declared income and expenditure. But I dont think 
that the non-borrowing periods Uncle Buck mentions were  significant enough to reasonably 
say that this showed Mr M had moved on from whatever  situation  had required  his earlier  
loans.
I think that Mr M lost out when Uncle Buck provided loan 5 because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mr M borrowed was likely to have negative implications 
on Mr Ms ability to access  mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
Im planning  to uphold Mr Ms complaint about loans 5 and 6 and say Uncle  Buck should put 
things right.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr M told us he has nothing  further  to add. 
Uncle Buck  says it disagrees  with me for the reasons it set out in previous correspondence 
when it responded  to our adjudicators view. And in particular,  it doesnt agree that:
loans 5 and 6 had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness  by 
allowing him to take expensive  credit  intended for short-term use over an 
extended period  of time, given that Mr M had been borrowing  for less than a 
year at the point  of being funded with loan 5, or that
the length of time over which Mr M borrowed was likely to have negative 
implications on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream credit.
Ref: DRN47010115my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
In coming to my final decision Ive thought  carefully  about what Uncle Buck  has said in 
response to my provisional  decision. 
When reaching my provisional view,  I took into account what  Uncle Buck  had said in 
response to the adjudicators view  and I agreed  in part with what  Uncle Buck  had said. Ive 
explained in my provisional decision  why (unlike  the adjudicator)  I didnt  think Id seen 
enough information fairly to be able to say that Uncle Buck shouldnt have provided loan 4 to 
Mr M. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys definition of high cost short  term credit that Uncle Buck  
mentions doesnt  mean that Uncle Buck acted  fairly  when it provided loans 5 and 6 to Mr M. 
Ive explained  in my provisional decision why I think that Mr Ms overall  pattern of borrowing 
demonstrated that, by loan 5, it looked  like hed become dependent on short  term high cost 
credit. 
All the indications in Mr Ms case were that repeatedly hed had to borrow  again, and very 
quickly after repaying  previous loans. Loan  5 was the biggest loan hed asked for  
indicating that he appeared  to have an escalating ongoing need and it didnt look like he was 
using this borrowing  for its intended  purpose  of a short term fix. And that seems  to be borne 
out by the fact that loan 6 was taken out within a week of Mr M repaying  loan 5  and for 
exactly the same amount  of money  again. 
I think its fair to say that as these loans indicated  a dependency on short  term high cost 
credit this wouldve  likely impacted adversely on his credit record.  I accept that I couldve 
expressed this point better in my provisional  decision  rather  than saying the length  of time 
over which Mr M borrowed  was likely  to have negative  implications  on Mr Ms ability to 
access mainstream credit. But my overall  view remains the same  that loans 5 and 6 were 
unfair so all information recorded about loans 5 and 6 is unfairly  adverse and should  be 
removed entirely from Mr Ms credit file.
I appreciate that Uncle Buck disagrees  with the way Ive reached  my view. In my decision 
Ive concentrated  on dealing  with the main  points raised that affect the outcome  of this 
complaint. I hope  that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached 
my final decision.
As no further  comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained  in my provisional  decision.  
putting things right - what  Uncle Buck  needs to do 
 refund all interest  and charges that Mr M paid on loans 5 and 6 
Ref: DRN47010116 add simple  interest  at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement* 
 the number of loans  taken by the time of loan 5 means that any information about this loan 
is adverse. So all entries about  loans 5 and 6 should  be removed from Mr Ms credit  file.
 *HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I partially uphold  this complaint and direct Uncle Buck Finance LLP to pay Mr M as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4701011