K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited  (Erudio) have refused to defer his 
student loans  and have cancelled them, demanding payment in full. He wants the loans 
reactivated and deferred and hes also unhappy  that there are arrears on his account   he 
says there  werent  any.
background
Mr H has three student loans that are administered by Erudio. He was disappointed  to be 
told by them that his account had been terminated and they would be seeking  full settlement 
of his student loans. 
He complained to Erudio  but they didnt respond in time so he referred his complaint to this 
service.
Erudio noted that his address details  hadnt  been updated correctly and that this meant Mr H 
hadnt received  correspondence from them. Their systems wouldnt allow  them to reinstate 
the account but they confirmed that they would  treat it as if it were live. They said:
no further interest would be applied to his account
they wouldnt record the defaults  with the credit  reference agencies as they shouldnt 
have been applied
they would honour  all rights (for example, age related  cancellation and deferment) 
that would  have been available to Mr H prior to termination
he would  continue  to receive statements and correspondence as normal
they would pay him £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hed 
experienced
they would defer  his account by a further  year. The deferment approved  now runs 
until March 2020
Mr H said he was broadly  satisfied with their response but he was still disappointed that they 
wouldnt reinstate  his account and he also disputed the arrears on it. He said he couldnt 
remember there being any.
Our adjudicator explained that we couldnt insist Erudio re-instate the account if systems 
prevented them from doing so and she noted  that the arrears on Mr Hs account  had been 
calculated correctly. So she didnt think  Erudio  needed to take any more action than it 
already had.
But Mr H disagreed and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Erudio have  now taken sufficient action to rectify the problems Mr H has unfortunately 
experienced. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN46752072Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ive reviewed the actions  taken by Erudio so far and agree with them.  I wont  comment  any 
further on the issues surrounding  the termination  of the account  as I can see thats now been  
investigated and resolved.
There are two outstanding  issues. Mr H is disappointed that Erudio  havent  reinstated  his 
account as he believes they should be able to and hes also still concerned about  the arrears  
on his account.
account reinstatement
I can understand that Mr H is concerned about  future rights  and about how future contact 
with Erudio will work out if his account  isnt live. But Erudio have explained that their systems 
simply dont enable them to reinstate  a terminated account and I think it would  be 
unreasonable for me to suggest otherwise. I have no knowledge of their system.  
The alternative arrangement theyve suggested sounds sensible and theyve confirmed that 
all of the rights Mr H wouldve had if his account was live will still be applicable. I cant see 
that Mr H is disadvantaged by this arrangement; it seems a sensible and fair solution, so Im 
not asking Erudio to take any further action.
the arrears
Erudio have confirmed  that interest charged  to Mr Hs account  since  April 2017  has now 
been removed  as it shouldnt have been charged.
The arrears  that remain  originate from more historic transactions.  Ive seen that when  new 
deferment periods  were  confirmed, in 2014 and in 2015, arrears for the previous three 
months were  rolled back  and payments due in those months therefore dont form part of 
the current arrears. But payments were due in January 2014 and also in February 2015 so 
the arrears appear  to have been calculated  correctly.
I wont therefore be asking Erudio to take any more action than they already have. I can see 
that theyve agreed  to pay Mr H £200  in recognition of the obvious distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused him and that theyve  provided an additional year of 
deferment - I think thats reasonable  in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN46752073my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Erudio Student Loans 
Limited, if they havent already done so, to:
continue to manage Mr Hs account as if live
remove any adverse credit reports they may have made  to the credit reference 
agencies in relation to this account 
honour all rights (for example, age related  cancellation  and deferment)  that would 
have been available to Mr H through his account  prior to termination
continue to provide  statements and correspondence as would be the case  if the 
account were live
pay Mr H £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced
defer the account until 14 March 2020
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4675207