K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Mr E says The Co-operative Bank Plc mis-sold  him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr Es mortgage application offered him the choice to take PPI or turn it down. At that 
point, he didnt choose PPI and his mortgage  was approved  without it. Later, The Co-op  
wrote to him to offer PPI if he wanted it, with the first 12 months being free. Mr E signed 
and submitted an application  specifically  for the PPI. His mortgage  had already been 
approved, so he wouldve known he didnt have  to take the policy.
It looks like The Co-op wrote  to Mr E again  when the free period was ending,  to clarify 
how much  the PPI would  cost if he kept it, and to check he still wanted it. I can see 
The Co-op sent him a further  letter thanking him for renewing the policy  and setting up a 
separate direct debit  to pay for it.
It looks like Mr E took a relatively  pro-active  role in managing  his insurance, adjusting  it 
to fit his circumstances  in later years. So he did know he had the cover, even if he may 
have forgotten  now. And in those later years, it also seems  to have been made clear that 
the insurance was optional.  Overall,  I think that The Co-op made  it clear  Mr E didnt have 
to take out PPI and that he chose  to take it at the time.
The Co-op didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr E, so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. It did have to make  sure Mr E got the information he needed  to decide if it was right 
for him. 
From  what Ive seen, it looks like The Co-op  made the PPIs costs  clear to Mr E, so he 
wouldve understood how much hed need to pay for it if he chose  to go ahead. Further, 
the PPI was competitively priced  given  how much it would pay out in a claim, and it 
wouldve paid out on top of Mr Es existing benefits.
Its possible that The Co-op couldve given Mr E clearer information  about the main 
things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr E doesnt appear to have been affected by any of 
those things.
 
This means  The Co-op doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But The Co-op  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr E because: 
The Co-op got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr E about that. Because  The Co-op  didnt tell him, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN45266412To put that right, The Co-op has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
What the business needs  to do
The Co-op has to pay back to Mr E any commission and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. The Co-op  should also pay back  to Mr E any extra interest  he 
paid because of that.
That means The Co-op should pay back to Mr E the extra he paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. The Co-op should 
also pay Mr E 8%* simple  interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr E can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Co-operative Bank Plc doesnt have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But The Co-operative Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr E any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, then 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4526641