K821x#15complaint
Mr V complains that Paysafe Financial Services Limited wont refund over €11,000 made 
from his account, which  he says he didnt authorise. 
background
In October  2015, Mr V was the victim of a scam known as phishing  (where  fraudsters send 
an email to a customer as though it had come from a known service provider  in this case 
NETELLER). Its not in dispute that what happened  was an act of fraud. So I have used the 
term fraudster throughout to refer to the third party involved. 
Mr V held an electronic  money wallet with Paysafe  his NETELLER account. On 7,8 and 9 
of October  2015 he received emails from the fraudster, posing as NETELLER, asking him to 
confirm his registered email address on the account. The emails  asked Mr V to click on a link 
which was valid for seven days. It also said he needed to verify his email  address as soon as 
possible. 
Mr V says the emails  looked the same  as other, genuine, emails  he had received from 
NETELLER about  his account. And he recently  changed his phone and so thought  the 
emails related to him accessing  his account from a new device. Mr V was worried about  
losing access to his account and so clicked on the link. He says he was taken to a webpage 
which resembled the genuine NETELLER webpage. The webpage asked Mr V to enter his 
password and other personal details  his email address was already pre-populated.  Due to 
the amount of information wanted  Mr V gave up and he says he never hit the submit button.  
Over the weekend of 10 and 11 October  2015  several transactions  happened on the 
account, which Mr V says he never authorised.  NETELLER had stopped  one transaction but 
he was €11,993.50 out of pocket. The transactions are as set out below:
Date and time Status Amount
10/10/2015  08.40 Accepted 3425.10
10/10/2015  09.09 Accepted 3425.10
10/10/2015  09.58 Declined 2295.60
10/10/2015  10.07 Accepted 2149.26
11/10/2015  11.17 Accepted 1134.11 reversed  19/10/2015
11/10/2015  11.23 Accepted 1134.11 reversed  19/10/2015
11/10/2015  15.44 Accepted 362.91
11/10/2015  16.57 Accepted 362.91
He discovered this early  on 12 October 2015  and contacted NETELLER immediately about 
that. He also realised the fraudster had changed the recovery email address for the account,  
which meant he didnt  receive information  from NETELLER  about  his account. 
NETELLER deactivated  Mr Vs account  for security  reasons, and it was able to retrieve  
€2,268.22  shown as the reversals in the above  table for 19 October 2015. It was a local 
NETELLER office  that Mr V contacted  as he wanted to speak to someone in his native  
language. When  this was finally arranged, Mr V says he was contacted by a cleaner, not a 
NETELLER representative. 
He was told by NETELLER on 13 October 2015  that the email sent to him had been  a 
phishing email. Mr V was asked to complete  a questionnaire about the transactions.  He was 
also asked to provide  a police report about the matter. Mr V tried to report  this to local police 
Ref: DRN41393482but was told this would need to be done  in the capital. This would take some time,  as it 
meant Mr V needed to travel there. Mr V notified  NETELLER  of the difficulties this would 
present but he says it refused to help until this was done.   Mr  V managed to travel  there  
towards the end of October 2015,  and he was told the police investigation  was likely to take 
some time. Mr V notified NETELLER the matter had been reported. 
I understand that police  sent reports to NETELLER about the matter in February 2016 and 
August 2016.  Mr V contacted  NETELLER for an update in December 2016  and was told it 
would provide details of its findings  should it be contacted by officials.  In March  2019 Mr V 
complained about this matter via his lawyer.  It issued  a final response  on 28 March 2019 
declining Mr Vs request  for a refund as it said is account had been compromised as a result 
of his intent and/or gross negligence. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She wasnt persuaded Mr V had acted  with intent or 
gross negligence and so she found  Paysafe ought  to refund the unauthorised transactions. 
She also felt Paysafe had handled  the matter particularly poorly and so also asked for £500 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused. 
Mr V accepted the outcome,  but Paysafe didnt. It said it didnt agree that Paysafe should be 
liable to reimburse Mr V when he was the victim  of phishing outside of the NETELLER 
wallet. Its investigation shows that whoever had access to Mr Vs account had direct  access  
to his credentials (his e-mail, account  password and secure ID). It remains  of the view Mr V 
has been grossly negligent. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When considering whats  fair and 
reasonable I am required to take into account; relevant law and regulations; the regulators 
rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice;  and where appropriate what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
relevant considerations
Paysafe is a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulated firm and was carrying  out 
regulated activities. As such, the FCAs overarching  Principles for Businesses  apply 
including the requirement to pay regard  to the customers interests  and treat them  fairly  
(Principle 6).
The withdrawals from Mr Vs account  were made in October 2015. So the relevant legislation 
is that set out in the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (PSRs) as Paysafe was providing 
payment services  electronic money  issuers are payment service  providers. And Im 
satisfied this was a payment account.  In October  2018, the Court  of Justice of the 
European Union handed down a judgment which considered what a payment account was 
Bundeskammer fr Arbeiter  und Angestellte  v ING-DiBa Direktbank Austria  Niederlassung 
der ING-DiBa AG (Case  C 191/17) (4 October  2018).  Its my understanding  that during its 
consideration, it found the defining characteristic of a payment account was the ability to 
both send third party  transactions and receive  them. As a result of this the Financial  Conduct  
Authority changed  its guidance at PERG  15.3 Q16 to include this characteristic.  In its view 
payment accounts  would include  e-money  accounts.   
Ref: DRN41393483But if Im wrong about that, the terms and conditions, which are set out below, are closely  
linked with PSR 2009 such that I find it fair and reasonable  to take them  into account. 
I think these sections of PSR 2009  are of particular relevance here:
Consent and withdrawal of consent
55.(1) A payment transaction is to be regarded  as having been  authorised  by the payer for 
the purposes of this Part only if the payer has given its consent  to
(a) the execution  of the payment transaction; 
Obligations of the payment service user in relation to payment instruments
57.(1) A payment service user to whom a payment instrument has been issued must 
(a)use the payment  instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions  
governing its issue  and use; and
(b)notify the payment service provider in the agreed manner and without undue 
delay on becoming  aware  of the loss, theft,  misappropriation or unauthorised  use 
of the payment instrument.
(2) The payment  service user must on receiving a payment instrument take all reasonable 
steps to keep its personalised security features safe.
Evidence on authentication  and execution  of payment transactions
60.(1) Where a payment service user
(a)denies having authorised an executed  payment transaction; or
(b)claims that a payment  transaction has not been correctly executed,
it is for the payment service provider  to prove  that the payment transaction was 
authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment  service  providers accounts and 
not affected by a technical breakdown or some  other  deficiency.
(2) In paragraph  (1) authenticated means the use of any procedure  by which  a payment 
service provider is able to verify the use of a specific payment instrument, including its 
personalised security  features.
(3) Where a payment  service user denies  having authorised an executed payment 
transaction, the use of a payment instrument recorded by the payment service provider is 
not in itself necessarily  sufficient to prove  either that
(a) the payment  transaction  was authorised by the payer; or
(b) the payer acted  fraudulently or failed with intent or gross  negligence to comply with 
regulation 57.
Payment service providers liability  for unauthorised payment transactions
Ref: DRN4139348461. Subject to regulations  59 [Notification  of unauthorised or incorrectly  executed  payment 
transactions] and 60, where an executed payment transaction was not authorised  in 
accordance with regulation 55, the payment service provider must  immediately 
(a) refund  the amount of the unauthorised payment transaction  to the payer;  and
(b) where applicable, restore the debited  payment account  to the state  it would have been in 
had the unauthorised payment transaction not taken place.
Payers liability for unauthorised  payment  transaction
62.(1) Subject  to paragraphs (2) , the payer  is liable up to a maximum of £50 for any 
losses incurred in respect of unauthorised payment transactions arising
(a) from the use of a lost or stolen payment instrument; or
(b) where the payer has failed to keep the personalised  security features of the payment 
instrument safe, from the misappropriation of the payment instrument.
(2) The payer is liable for all losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment 
transaction where the payer
(a) has acted fraudulently; or
(b) has with intent or gross negligence  failed to comply with regulation 57.
Intent
Intent isnt defined  within the terms and conditions  of the account.  Ill therefore apply the 
natural meaning  of intent  that being something you want or plan to do; a deliberate  act. 
I note the FCAs guidance  on the PSRs 2009,  which gives  a helpful indication of the 
regulators view of what it means, and refers to:
8.108 a customer  who deliberately  failed to comply  with their obligations
8.116 a customer  who has intentionally  not complied with their obligations... the 
burden of proof lies with the payment service providerthe  rejection must  be 
supported by sufficient evidence to prove  that the customer is guilty of  intentional 
breach. 
This guidance also gives an indication of the regulators view of whats  meant by taking all 
reasonable steps to keep [a payment instruments] security features safe at Regulation 57(2)  
PSRs 2009:
8.97 says What constitutes  reasonable steps  will depend on the circumstances, but 
payment service providers must say what steps they expect customers to take in 
their pre-contract disclosure information.
gross negligence
Whether a customer has acted with gross  negligence  is something that can only be 
assessed on a case by case basis, taking into account all the circumstances.  The term is not 
defined in PSR 2009 nor in the first Payment Services Directive. However, recital 72 of the 
second Payment  Services Directive provides as follows:
Ref: DRN41393485In order to assess possible negligence or gross negligence on the part of the payment 
service user,  account should be taken of all of the circumstances.  The evidence and degree 
of alleged negligence should generally be evaluated  according to national  law. However, 
while the concept of negligence implies  a breach of a duty of care, gross negligence should  
mean more  than mere  negligence, involving conduct exhibiting a significant degree of 
carelessness; for example, keeping the credentials used to authorise a payment transaction  
beside the payment instrument in a format that is open and easily  detectable by third 
parties
Reflecting this, the FCA, in its document setting out its role under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, says:
 we interpret gross negligence to be a higher  standard than the standard of negligence 
under common law. The customer needs  to have shown a very significant degree  of 
carelessness.
Although neither of these is directly relevant  to this complaint, theyre of value as a relevant 
consideration in the absence of contemporaneous  interpretative guidance, and because they 
inform the meaning  of a concept  that has been in place for some  time (in the Banking Code). 
When considering  gross negligence in a commercial contract context, Mance J in Red Sea 
Tankers Ltd v Papachristidis  (The Ardent) [1997]  2 Lloyds Rep 547, 586 said:
If the matter is viewed  according to purely English principles of construction,   Gross 
negligence is clearly  intended to represent  something more fundamental than failure to 
exercise proper skill and/or care constituting negligence  as a matter  of ordinary language 
and general impression, the concept of gross  negligence  seems to me capable of embracing 
not only conduct undertaken with actual appreciation  of the risks involved, but also serious 
disregard of or indifference to an obvious  risk.
Negligence is often  referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care, but as I have 
described above gross negligence suggests a lack of care that goes significantly beyond  
ordinary negligence. So I have to consider whether Mr Vs actions fell so far below the 
standard of a reasonable person  that it would be fair to say he failed with gross negligence 
to keep his personalised security details safe or to comply with the terms and conditions  of 
the account.
the terms and conditions of Mr Vs account
Paysafe has provided  a copy  of the terms and conditions that apply to the account. I note 
these are from January  2020 as did the investigator. The investigator set out the assumption 
these are the same as those that applied in 2015.  Paysafe  hasnt corrected that assumption 
and so I also proceed on the basis  they are the same. 
The terms that are of particular relevance in this context are:
6.5.10 You must give consent to the execution of a Transaction for it to be authorised. You 
agree that by pressing  the agree button, or entering  your Account ID Information (or any 
equivalent button or process whereby you submit the required Transaction information you 
are confirming that you are providing consent  to for Transaction to be processed and for the 
relevant Fees to be charged  and deducted  from your Account. All transactions made using 
Ref: DRN41393486your PIN, your Account ID Information or any other security procedures that we require are 
deemed to be authorised  by you. 
13 Keeping your account and card safe
13.1 It is your responsibility to keep  your Card safe; your Card  is personal to you and you 
must not give it to anyone  else to use. You must take all reasonable precautions  to keep  
your Account ID Information  confidential  and secure. This includes ensuring the ongoing 
security of your Account ID Information  and your personal computer device for accessing the 
Internet. 
17 Warranties, liabilities and disclaimers
17.5 In the case of an unauthorised payment or a payment that was incorrectly  executed  due 
to an error  by us, we shall,  as soon as practicable,  refund the payment amount including  all 
fees deducted therefrom. This shall not apply:
17.5.1 where the unauthorised payments arises  from your failure  to keep your Account ID 
Information safe in accordance with section  13 of these Terms of Use, in which  case  you 
shall remain  liable for the first £35 GBP (or equivalent in the currency of your Account) 
unless section 17.5.3 applies;
17.5.3 if the transaction was unauthorised but you have acted fraudulently or compromised 
the security of your Account with intent or gross  negligence, in which case you shall be 
solely liable for all losses; 
The above  relevant considerations means  that, if the transactions  Mr V says were 
unauthorised, it would be fair and reasonable for Paysafe to refund the full amount taken, 
unless, with intent  or gross negligence,  Mr V failed to comply with the account  terms and 
conditions (and the obligations set out in Regulation 57).
There are two key questions relevant to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint:
1.were the disputed transactions authorised by Mr V? and;
2.if they werent, did Mr V fail with intent or gross negligence to comply  with his 
obligations under  the PSRSs 2009  in particular, did he fail to comply with the terms 
and conditions of his account,  or to keep  his personal security  features safe?
Were the disputed  transactions authorised by Mr V?
Regulation 55 says that the payer  must give consent, and it must  be given in the form, and 
in accordance with the procedure, agreed  between the payer and its payment  service 
provider. The payment  services directive  itself (which PSR 2009  implements)  says In the 
absence of such consent, a payment transaction shall be considered to be unauthorised.
The disputed transactions were made  on-line. There is nothing within the account terms and 
conditions which sets out the exact  form and procedure required for payments to be made 
on-line. However.  6.5.10 says:
You must give consent to the execution of a Transaction for it to be authorised. You agree  
that by pressing the agree button, or entering  your Account ID Information (or any 
Ref: DRN41393487equivalent button or process whereby you submit the required Transaction information you 
are confirming that you are providing consent  for the Transaction to be processed  and for 
the relevant Fees to be charged and deducted from your Account.  All transactions  made 
using your PIN, your Account ID Information or any other security  procedures that we require 
are deemed to be authorised by you. 
Our investigator queried what steps are necessary  for a transaction to be completed.  
Paysafe confirmed the customer would need  to log onto the account using the customers 
email and password  and that a Secure  Identification number is required to complete a 
transaction. So it seems  to me that in order to complete a transaction Mr V would  need  to:
1.log on to his account using his email  and password;
2.provide information  about who he wanted to pay;
3.provide his Secure  ID to complete  the transaction.
Mr V says he clicked on a link which  took him through to a webpage which  looked like 
NETELLERs website.  He provided  information,  which he believed, was to authenticate his 
email address. This seemingly included logging onto his account. Mr V says he didnt submit  
his details. I think he likely did. But it is possible the email contained  keylogging software 
which meant that even  if Mr V didnt hit submit, the fraudsters will have gained the 
information needed to be able to log into his account, using his credentials. 
Given that it wasnt actually NETELLERs website that he was logging onto, its questionable  
whether Mr V completed  even the first step to authenticate a payment. Nevertheless, Im 
satisfied Mr V didnt complete the remaining steps as he didnt know payments  were made 
from his account  until he checked it on the morning of 12 October 2015. He also didnt 
recognise the payee although it was clear  this was another NETELLER account holder as 
the payments  were  recorded as member-to-member  payments. 
On balance, Im not persuaded  Mr V completed  the steps required for the payments to be 
considered authorised. So it follows  they were unauthorised. 
Did Mr V fail with intent,  or gross negligence with the terms and conditions  of the 
account, or to keep his personalised security details safe?
I need to consider whether Mr V appreciated that his actions, or inactions, in the 
circumstances meant  he wasnt complying with the terms and conditions  of his account; or 
that he appreciated he wasnt  taking all reasonable steps to keep account  information and 
security details safe. In the circumstances, I dont think  Mr V failed to comply  with his 
obligations with intent. 
Mr V says he received  several emails that appeared to be genuine NETELLER emails. He 
said he had received emails before, and they looked  the same. He wasnt surprised to 
receive the emails  as he had just changed  his phone  and so was accessing his account from 
a new device. 
I have seen a copy of the email Mr V was sent. I agree with Mr V, this does  look like a 
genuine email.  And it does explain  that Mr V needs  to verify his email  as soon as possible.  
Mr V says he clicked on the link as he didnt want to lose access  to his funds. And when  he 
did so he was taken  to a webpage that looked the same as NETELLERs genuine  website. I 
havent seen a copy of that, but I have  no reason  to doubt what hes said, given the email I 
have seen. 
Ref: DRN41393488NETELLER has confirmed the email wasnt genuine. I have no reason to doubt the webpage 
wasnt either. Im not persuaded  Mr V knew or appreciated this when  he clicked  on the link, 
or when  he entered his account  and security details. Although  Mr V says he didnt hit the 
submit button either he did, or the fraudsters didnt need him to as the email could have 
contained keylogging software   a known method used by fraudsters. I dont think Mr V 
would have realised  that by entering his details,  whether he hit submit  or not, would allow his 
details to be obtained by a fraudster.  
I accept that by completing the log in process  and inputting his personalised security  
features, Mr V did give this information  to a fraudster. But I cant  ignore that he did this in 
order to retain access to his account and he thought he was doing so on a genuine  
webpage. I dont  think he realised or appreciated hed been tricked or that he wasnt 
complying with his account terms and conditions  or was failing to take reasonable steps  to 
keep his account and personalised security  information safe. It follows that I dont find Mr V 
failed to comply with his obligations under the account terms and conditions  with intent, as 
he didnt appreciate the true nature of what he was doing.   
I turn now to whether Mr V acted  with gross negligence. I have considered whether the 
actions Mr V took fell so far below the standard of a reasonable person that he failed with 
gross negligence to take reasonable  steps to keep his account information and personalised 
security information safe or to comply  with the terms and conditions  of the account. 
As set out earlier, negligence is often referred  to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. 
And the use of gross  negligence  rather than negligence suggests a lack of care that goes 
significantly beyond ordinary negligence. So Ive thought about Mr Vs actions and what a 
reasonable person would do in his circumstances. 
Its important to take into account  all the circumstances  when  considering whether an 
individuals actions  amount to gross  negligence.  Scams such  as the one experienced by 
Mr V are sophisticated. 
Paysafe has argued  that it shouldnt be held liable for the disputed  transactions as Mr V was 
the victim of phishing outside of the NETELLER wallet. It also says whoever had access to 
Mr Vs account had direct access to his credentials.
I have thought carefully about this. But Im not persuaded that the phishing  happening 
outside of the NETELLER  wallet  bears any relevance to whether Mr V was acting with gross 
negligence. Phishing is a well know scam used by fraudsters to trick account holders into 
believing they have received emails from a genuine  account provider, with links to fake 
websites. By its very nature phishing  will always occur outside  of a genuine providers 
systems  that is the very point of the scam.  
Its not in dispute  that Mr V shared his account  details  and security  information. But that of 
itself isnt enough for me to find he acted  with gross negligence; I also need to consider the 
circumstances in which those details were shared. 
I need to bear in mind that Mr V believed he had received  a genuine email from NETELLER 
about verifying his email  address. Against a backdrop of his changing his phone  recently,  I 
dont think him receiving this email  ought  to have  alerted him to anything  untoward 
happening; he was using a new device and so thought email verification was a legitimate 
request from NETELLER. 
Ref: DRN41393489As mentioned above, having  seen  a copy of the email,  I can understand why Mr V thought it 
was genuine.  I dont think it was until Mr V noticed  funds had gone  from his account, or 
NETELLER confirmed it, that he realised the email might not have been genuine. 
As mentioned above, I havent  seen  the webpage  that Mr V was presented  with when  he 
clicked on the link in the email. As he was accessing  the link via what he thought was a 
genuine email,  I have no reason to doubt Mr V thought he was on the real website. Indeed, 
Mr V has said as much; that the website resembled NETELLERs webpage/online 
environment. The webpage requested he complete his personal  details  and provide his 
password. And he says the email  address  had already been completed for him. 
As Mr V believed he was on NETELLERs  genuine  website, there would have been no 
reason for him to question  the information he was being asked for. It was in the context of 
verifying his email address that the information  was given.  I think a lot of people  in a similar 
situation would have behaved in the same way as Mr V. It follows  that I dont think  the 
actions Mrs V took fell so far below the standard of a reasonable person, such  that I would 
find he failed with gross  negligence to keep his account information  and security details safe 
or comply with the terms and conditions of his account. 
Other matters
Mr V made NETELLER aware of the fraud  on the morning of 12 October 2015. This was just 
one day after the last disputed transaction. Although it sent Mr V a questionnaire  and 
requested a police  report, I cannot see any evidence that it actually investigated the fraud at 
the time.  
I know it managed to recover a total of €2,268.22. But despite a police report being sent to 
NETELLER in February and August 2016, it didnt do anything further about the fraud  until 
Mr V complained, via his lawyer, in 2019.
Whilst I accept  notifying  the police of the fraud was part of its requirements at the time, I see 
no reason why a police report was required before  NETELLER could start or even complete 
its investigations. It is, after all, the party that is required  to show that disputed  transactions  
are authorised or, if not, the account holder has acted with gross negligence or intent to not 
comply with the account terms  and conditions. Failing that, the money should be refunded.  
NETELLER took none  of those steps until Mr V raised a complaint in 2019. I consider this to 
be very poor customer service and means that Mr V has been out of pocket for far longer  
than he ought  to have been. I therefore  agree he should be fairly compensated for that. 
putting things right
I am upholding  this complaint and require Paysafe to:
Refund the unauthorised transactions of €9,725.28 (the disputed amount less those 
already reversed)  less the £35 allowed for in the account terms and conditions  (if it 
chooses to retain this). 
Pay Mr V £500  or the Euro equivalent - for the inconvenience he has been  put to 
as a result of Paysafe not settling this matter much sooner. 
 
Ref: DRN413934810my final decision
For the reason  given,  I uphold this complaint and require Paysafe Financial Services  Limited 
to redress Mr V as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2020.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4139348