K822xcomplaint
Mrs P complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc recorded inaccurate  information on her 
credit file. Mrs P also complains that the default  was registered later than it shouldve  been. 
background 
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 6 March 2019   a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld.  I 
invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make. 
Santander responded to say it accepted my provisional decision. Mr P responded on behalf 
of Mrs P and asked some questions about the information in my provision decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has raised some concerns about  the information Santander  may report to the credit  
reference agencies  and is worried about  Mrs Ps ability to secure credit in the future. Mr P 
has also asked about the timing of the default  Santander registered  against Mrs P and has 
asked whether it should be moved  to 2015. 
In this case, Mrs Ps account entered into a payment arrangement around August 2015 
(reported on the credit  file as a Debt Management Programme) but that delayed Santanders 
decision to default  it. Mrs P made the payments agreed to avoid  the default for around a 
year and in line with my provisional decision Santander then took the step of defaulting the 
account. For clarity, Mrs Ps account  was only defaulted once, in November 2016.  
Santander has agreed to amend Mrs Ps credit  file to reflect  a payment arrangement  instead  
of the Debt Management Programme. But this is still considered to be adverse  information. 
So its possible that could  affect Mrs Ps ability to get credit  in the future. 
I havent told Santander to seek approval  for the information it records  on putting the 
decision into place. Thats because theres only a limited number of things  it can say on the 
credit file. And whilst  my provisional decision says the Debt Management Programme should 
not be reported by Santander  it is able to report a payment arrangement  if it chooses  to do 
so. If Mrs P is concerned  about the information Santander reports  if she accepts the decision 
shes welcome to refer her concerns back to us and well check whether the settlement fairly 
reflects my decision.  
Having thought about the responses to my provisional decision I still think  the settlement  Ive 
told Santander to put into place is the fairest way to resolve this complaint. As a result,  I am 
upholding this complaint in line with my provisional  decision. 
Ref: DRN45603842my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct  Santander  Consumer (UK) Plc 
to remove any reference to a Debt Management  Programme from Mrs Ps credit  file. I also 
direct Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to stop reporting any information about a Debt 
Management Programme to the credit reference agencies  in relation to Mrs Ps loan. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mrs P to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
copy provisional decision 6 March  2019
complaint
Mrs P complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc recorded inaccurate  information on her
credit file. Mrs P also complains that the default  was registered later than it shouldve  been.
Ref: DRN45603843background
Mrs P had a loan with Santander but experienced financial difficulties in 2015 which affected
her ability to maintain  payments. She contacted a charity to get some  advice about how to
handle her debts  and completed  an income and outgoings assessment. Mrs P was advised
to approach her creditors and discuss her options and send Santander  an informal  payment
plan request. Mrs P did that and Santander  agreed to accept £1 a month towards  the debt.
Santander recorded a Debt Management  Programme on Mrs Ps credit  file to reflect the
arrangement.
Santander moved to default the account on 7 November 2016. Mrs P repaid the outstanding
balance in February 2018 and went on to look at her credit  file. She complained  to
Santander about the Debt Management Programme entry  but it said her payment
arrangement had been negotiated via the debt charity so the information  was accurate.
Mrs P referred her concerns to this service and an adjudicator looked at what  had happened.
They thought the information on Mrs Ps credit file was correct and didnt agree the date of
default was wrong  so didnt ask Santander to do anything else. Mrs P didnt agree so her
complaints been  passed to me to make  a decision.
Mrs P is represented by Mr P in bringing  the complaint.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a different
decision to the adjudicator.
There are two separate issues in this case.  Whether  Santander is reporting accurate
information in terms of the payment  arrangement it agreed in 2015 and when it shouldve
fairly moved  to default the account.  Ill deal with each in turn.
As Ive said,  Ive reached a different decision to the adjudicator. Ive looked at the
Information Commissioners Offices  (ICO)  guidance  called  Principles for Reporting of
Arrears, Arrangements  and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies.  The ICO guidance says:
A debt management programme  is when a third party debt adviser negotiates a repayment
schedule for all or a number of a consumers credit  agreements.
Im satisfied that the industry guidance  on this point establishes that for Santander to report
a Debt Management  Programme on Mrs Ps credit file a third party shouldve negotiated it on
her behalf.  Santander  says the debt charity  did negotiate on Mrs Ps behalf.  But the
evidence its supplied doesnt support that and Mr P has sent a letter from the debt charity
which specifically confirms it never acted on Mrs Ps behalf to negotiate with her creditors.
Santanders recently sent us a copy of the 12 August 2015 temporary payment arrangement
request it received from Mrs P. I agree that the letter says Mrs P received advice from the
debt charity and was acting on the basis of what she was told in trying to reach an
arrangement to pay £1 with Santander. But the request  has come directly  from Mrs P, not
the debt charity.  I also appreciate that Mrs P sent income and expenditure information from
the debt charity.  But, again, the request  for a temporary payment plan was from Mrs P, not
the debt charity.
Ref: DRN45603844As the payment arrangement wasnt negotiated  by a third party adviser I havent found
Santanders accurately  reported Mrs Ps information to the credit  reference agencies by
saying she was in a Debt Management Arrangement.  Im satisfied the information
Santanders reported isnt accurate so I intend to tell it to change  it.
I need to explain  to Mrs P that whilst I intend to tell Santander to remove  the reference to a
Debt Management Programme, it may decide  to report  a payment arrangement  existed to
make reduced payments  instead. The guidance Ive looked at from the ICO says businesses
can report this type of temporary arrangement  (and Im satisfied thats what was agreed in
this case) to the credit  reference  agencies. I just wanted to make Mrs P aware that while I
agree theres an error, the resolution  wont remove all traces  of a reduced payment
arrangement from her credit file.
Mrs P says that Santander  shouldve taken the step of defaulting the account  sooner. But
the ICO guidance Ive referred  to above also says businesses  will normally  move to default
an account when  its between three  and six months  in arrears. However, if the consumer is
in an existing payment  arrangement businesses wont normally register  a default until the
arrangement is broken.
Santanders recently told us that it moved to default  the account after it wasnt able to make
contact with Mrs P to discuss extending  the existing payment  arrangement. Given  Mrs P had
agreed to pay Santander  £1 a month towards her debt, I think it acted reasonably  by not
defaulting the account until it wasnt able to confirm an extension of the payment
arrangement. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs P but I think  Santanders  decision to default the
account in November 2016 was reasonable.
I appreciate Mrs Ps circumstances meant she wasnt able to maintain her payments but I
think Santanders decision  to record the default with the credit  reference agencies was fair
so Im not telling it to remove  that information.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part and direct
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc to remove any reference to a Debt Management  Programme
from Mrs Ps credit  file. I also direct Santander to stop reporting any information about  a
Debt Management Programme to the credit reference agencies in relation  to Mrs Ps loan.
Mrs P and Santander have until 20 March 2019 to send me anything  further theyd  like me to
consider before I make a final decision.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4560384