K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Society of Lloyds wont pay his claim for water damage to four lodges  
owned by him, under  his static caravan insurance.
background
Mr P owned  four wooden clad lodges with central heating, in a holiday home park which he 
let out to holidaymakers. Between September 2017 and March 2018  he spent some time 
there convalescing after an illness. On 1 January 2018, the water system in all four lodges  
was drained down. On 9 March the same  systems  were reconnected in readiness for letting 
out. On 23 March when the outside temperatures dropped to below freezing, the water pipes 
in all four lodges  froze  and burst, causing  considerable  internal damage.
Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster who came  out to review the damage. On a second visit, a 
site contractor was present. Although  the loss adjuster  suggested during the site visit that 
Lloyds might pay for the water damage (rather than repairs to the system), ultimately after 
referring it to the underwriter Lloyds decided to decline the claim. This was because it 
believed that Mr P had failed to comply with a condition  in the policy  when the properties 
were unoccupied for more than 48 hours. This was that between  1 November and 31 March 
either the water system must be drained down or the heating kept on continuously and set to 
10C or if the system  had a frost stat, to at least 4C. Lloyds didnt believe the heating 
system had been  kept on particularly because the freezing had affected all four properties at 
once.
Mr P insisted that he had kept the heating  on at 10C, with the frost stat also in place. He 
also complained  that because  of the delay in Lloyds deciding on the claim he had lost 
thousands in rental  income. He had had to sell the properties at a loss as he couldnt afford 
to have the repairs done.
Lloyds offered Mr P £200 for its delays (which he refused) but maintained  its position 
concerning the claim.
On referral to this service  Mr P sent us evidence that, even with a frost guard or 
temperatures set at a minimum of 10C pipes can freeze. He believes that is what happened  
in his case. He has appointed out that a number of other properties  on the site had suffered 
frozen pipes in similar situations and had their claims paid.
Our investigator thought that it was likely  that Mr P hadnt left the heating  on so was in 
breach of the policy terms.  He thought that for the failing in claim handling  the £200 offered 
by Lloyds was reasonable.
Mr P didnt agree and the matter has been  passed to me for consideration.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the claim
Ref: DRN43078012Whilst there are four claims, I think the same evidence applies to each one so I shall 
consider them all together. The relevant part of the policy that applies to this case  is set out 
in the general  conditions:
IF YOU WISH TO LEAVE THE WATER SUPPLY TURNED ON BETWEEN 1ST 
NOVEMBER AND 31ST MARCH BOTH DAYS INCLUSIVE, YOU MUST ENSURE:
the entire home benefits from a heating  system  being gas or oil fired central heating  or a 
geothermal or full electric  heating system  (not night  storage heaters), fitted with 
automatic controls and a separate thermostat.
The system  must be set to operate continuously  for 24 hours of each day (not controlled 
by any timing device) and the thermostat set at not less than 10 degrees Celsius and, 
where fitted, the loft hatch door left open.
or:
If the heating  system  as described above is installed and is additionally fitted with a "frost  
stat" that is designed and installed to override all other heating controls, irrespective of 
their functional  status, then this may be set to operate  at not less than 4 degrees  Celsius. 

Failure to comply  with the requirements  above will result in loss or damage resulting from 
escape of water  or burst pipes  being excluded from this insurance.
I think the conditions  are clear and usual for this sort of policy.  
The loss adjuster did confuse the dates, initially saying that the damage  was first noticed on 
or about 16 March  2018. But it appears  that this was in fact 23 March. It appears  that it was 
accepted there was freezing weather around that time. And on 23 March all the properties 
had been unoccupied for more than 48 hours. So, as Mr P had central  heating  in all four 
properties and as the water had been reconnected, he was required to keep it at a minimum 
of 10C  or with frost stat on, at 4C. He says he kept the heating  at 10C and has shown us 
a photo of the relevant  thermostat which doesnt  go below 10C.
The site contractor offered a possible  explanation for the freezing of the pipe which was that 
they had experience of a single compression fitting  failing  in a private property which  was 
occupied with a heating system  operational at the time. The loss adjuster commented that 
Experience of such failures in the past has been  encountered but they invariably relate to a 
particular area of pipework which may be exposed to a direct  external draught  and are 
inadequately or not insulated, rather than the multiple  failures evident in the caravan.
In considering such matters especially where  the evidence is of a technical  nature I have to 
rely on what the expert evidence says. As Mr P has told us, the contractor  wasnt  a plumber 
or heating  engineer. And they didnt carry out an inspection which backed up their possible 
explanation. So the only technical evidence from the time of the reporting of the claim comes 
from the loss adjusters  report. His view was that the explanation offered was unlikely.  More  
importantly he pointed  out that the damage occurred in all four properties at the same time. I 
think that this points to the damage occurring  because the properties werent kept heated  to 
the minimum temperature. 
I appreciate that Mr P has shown us some  general  evidence that pipes  can freeze even if the 
property is kept at the minimum  temperature of 10C. I appreciate that that is a possibility, 
but I havent seen expert evidence in the case of Mr Ps properties that that applied. The 
Ref: DRN43078013terms I have quoted are quite common in this sort of policy  and it is generally accepted that 
normally the minimum temperature  would be sufficient to keep the system from freezing. I 
have to decide what in my view is most likely to have happened and it seems to me that the 
most likely explanation for all four properties  to be affected at once is that the system  wasnt  
on at the time.
I understand the difficulty of proving that the heating was on especially so long after the 
event. Our investigator obtained from Mr P records of the gas usage at the property. 
Unfortunately these dont  help.  They  only show nine months gas usage which was extremely  
low, no doubt  because the properties  were unoccupied for most of that time. And I 
understand Mr Ps point  about other properties on the same site having similar claims. But I 
dont know what insurance terms applied to those properties or the reason for their claims 
apparently succeeding.
So, and I know this will be disappointing for Mr P, I cant find that Lloyds should pay Mr Ps 
claim. I know  he had to sell the properties  but ultimately as Lloyds didnt in my view have  
any liability  for the claim, it isnt responsible for his losses.
compensation
Lloyds declined the claim on 22 June so took three  months to reach a decision. There were 
some delays in getting to that point and Lloyds agreed that it had taken too long. So it 
offered to pay £200 compensation. It can take a while  to review all the evidence and get an 
underwriters decision  in this sort of case but it does appear that there were some  delays. I 
think the offered  compensation  was reasonable and in line with the sort of award we have 
made in similar cases. I note Mr P rejected this, but if he wants  to accept the offer from 
Lloyds he should  contact it directly.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4307801