K820x#14complaint
Mrs O says Capital One (Europe) Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mrs O was sold the policy in 2004  when she telephoned Capital One to activate a new credit 
card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Os case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Os complaint because:
The PPI was sold to Mrs O during a telephone  call. Capital One hasnt been  able to give us 
a recording of the call. I dont  find that surprising as the call took place over 14 years ago. 
And I wouldnt expect a business  to retain  call recordings for that long.
Capital One has given us a copy of the script that it says was in use at the time of the sale.    
I dont know how closely the Capital One representative followed the script,  but I think  it 
likely gives an indication of how the call was structured. And I can see it wouldve been  
made clear the policy was optional.
I also note the PPI remained on Mrs Os account for some time until 2007. And during that 
time the premiums wouldve appeared on Mrs Os monthly statements. So if it was 
something she hadnt asked for or wanted,  Id expect her to have questioned it at an early  
stage. But Ive not seen any evidence that she did.
So taking everything into account I think its most likely that Capital One made  Mrs O aware 
she had a choice  about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. Although I can 
understand if Mrs O cant recall this after so many years. 
From looking  at the script, I dont think Capital One recommended  the PPI to Mrs O so it 
didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it still had to give Mrs O clear information  about 
the policy so she could decide  for herself whether  to buy it. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs O about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  Mrs O was interested in this type of cover. And Mrs O doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy  didnt cover. For example 
Mrs O has told us she didnt have any existing  medical conditions  that wouldnt have been 
covered.
Ref: DRN49949312It looks like Mrs O was eligible  for the cover. So shed  have been  able to make a claim if she 
needed to.
Based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been useful 
to Mrs O if things  went wrong. In her complaint forms to this service Mrs O told us she would 
have received some sick pay from her employer if she was unable to work due an accident  
or sickness. The PPI policy sold to her couldve paid a monthly  benefit  for up to 12 months in 
addition to any sick pay if Mrs O became unwell. And it couldve paid a monthly benefit if   
Mrs O lost her job. And Ive not seen any evidence that suggests the PPI premiums were 
unaffordable for Mrs O.
Mrs O recalled that she had an insurance  policy in place already. But wasnt  able to give 
details of this. Her representative told us itd provide her with cover of three times her salary, 
so I think its likely this was a death-in-service  life assurance policy.  And the PPI sold by 
Capital One provided a different type of cover  to this
So after taking everything into account, I think its most likely Capital One made it clear that 
Mrs O had a choice about buying  the policy and she chose to take it. I also think  Mrs O 
wouldve gone ahead and bought  it even if Capital One had given her all the clear 
information it should have. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs O.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs O because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs O about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell     
Mrs O, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs O.
But Capital One (Europe) plc  does have  to pay back to Mrs O any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs O to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4994931