K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) has treated her unfairly  when it 
registered a default on her current  account.
background
Miss W had an easycash current account with BOS which went  into an unplanned overdraft 
of more than £900.00  after a number  of transactions were made in early  February  2018.  This 
account doesnt allow overdrafts as part of its terms and conditions.  
Miss W contacted BOS on 6 February to let it know she wanted to arrange  a repayment plan 
to reduce the overdraft. She explained  the transactions which  took her overdrawn were  a 
result of online gambling, but she wasnt experiencing  any financial difficulties. It was agreed 
at this point that Miss W would pay £69.00  per month starting on 28 February  2018.  This 
wasnt met and the plan was broken in March 2018.
A second plan was set up in May 2018.  This plan was to reduce the outstanding balance  by 
£40.00 per month starting  on 1 June 2018.  Miss W wasnt able to meet  the first payment on 
this and the plan was broken.
Miss W called BOS  on 17 July to try and arrange  a new repayment  plan for the account.  She 
was on the phone for over an hour during this call and was told at the end of it that BOS  
couldnt agree to a further repayment plan  as the previous ones  had been  broken. It was 
explained that the account would be closed and the outstanding balance passed to 
recoveries and this would  be recorded on Miss Ws credit file.
Miss W complained about the service she received on this call and that BOS was failing to 
offer another repayment plan. She felt the advisor  she spoke with didnt know  what  he was 
doing and she needed her account to remain open as her wages were paid into it.
BOS looked at Miss Ws complaint and said that it didnt  feel the service she had received 
was unreasonable. It agreed shed been on the call for a long time but she was trying to 
organise a repayment  plan and to see what could be done.  And there was nothing  to 
suggest the amount of time she spent on the call was excessive.
Halifax registered a default on Miss Ws account  on 5 November  2018  and sent the 
outstanding balance to a collections  agency  for recovery.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and said he didnt think BOS  needed  to do 
anymore. He felt it had acted fairly when it arranged two payment plans and that it wasnt 
unreasonable for it not to try and arrange  another after these had been  broken. And it was 
fair that this information is recorded on Miss Ws credit 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint,  for much the same reasons as our investigator.  I 
know this will be disappointing for Miss W, but Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN45115202Ive considered whether I think BOS should have done any more to help Miss W with her 
outstanding debt. And whether I feel it could  have done anything  differently in the call she 
made to it on 17 July 2018.
Miss W let BOS  know she wasnt experiencing financial  difficulties when she first arranged a 
payment plan. So there isnt an expectation for it to act in a positive  and sympathetic manner 
when trying to find a solution  to her debt. But it is fair to expect that is takes some 
reasonable steps to help reduce the impact  of this on Miss W.
Miss Ws account doesnt allow an overdraft normally based  on its terms and conditions. But 
it was agreed a reducing overdraft could be left on the account while she paid off the 
outstanding balance. Two plans were put in place to facilitate this at different amounts. 
Despite this, neither  plan was met.
As Miss W explained to BOS she wasnt in financial difficulty, its fair to expect that the 
repayment plan agreed to would have been met. And when it wasnt,  that BOS would 
question whether this would  ever be met. The overdraft was on the account for over five 
months and in this time Miss W failed to reduce  it. 
When Miss W called  in July 2018 to try and arrange a third plan for her account,  I dont  think 
BOS acted unfairly to say this couldnt  be done. It took account of everything  that had 
happened previously  and made  a decision on what it what it thought  was best to try and 
move the account  forward. 
Ive listened to the call Miss W had with BOS on 17 July 2018.  I think the advisor Miss W first 
spoke with could  have had a better understanding of the issues from the start. But he went 
away and spoke to a number of people  to help clarify what was happening on her account. 
And he did his best to try and find an answer  on this. 
I appreciate the call ended with Miss W being told that no plan would be agreed and that the 
account would be closed with the outstanding  debt passed to a recovery  agent  and that 
this would impact on her credit file. This would  have been disappointing  for Miss W to hear 
as she was hoping  to organise  a new payment plan. But I dont think the call was 
excessively long based on what the adviser  was trying to find out for Miss W  nor do I think  
there was a customer service failing  during  the call.
Overall, BOS is able to decide how it operates its accounts. It made a decision  based on 
how Miss W managed her account, not to offer a further repayment plan. I dont think it has 
been unfair in doing this and I wont be asking it to do any more  on this complaint.
Ref: DRN45115203my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2019.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4511520