K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the service hes received from Bank  of Scotland  plc (Halifax). He 
says the bank didnt take due care and attention  in communicating the correct information  to 
him.
 
background
Mr B says Halifax  didnt take enough care with the service it provided him in connection  with 
his credit card. Mr B told us:
He completed a balance  transfer  in July 2016  that came  with a 0% promotional rate 
valid until 28 October 2018. And the credit card statement he received in September 
2018 gave him notice  that his promotional rate would  expire the following month.
The notice  from Halifax incorrectly made reference to a balance transfer hed 
completed in April 2016, when the correct date was 16 July 2016, some  three  months 
later.
This mistake caused him worry and concern; he thought  something  had gone wrong 
on my account and a transfer that I was not aware  off (sic), had indeed taken 
place And he spent  time telephoning Halifax to resolve the matter.
Halifax upheld Mr Bs complaint. It acknowledged the time hed spent on the telephone and 
the concern he wouldve felt about the incorrectly  dated transfer.  The bank apologised for 
the lack of clarity in the email. It confirmed the date in April was when the account actually 
opened and the promotional rate started and the balance transfer had taken place in July 
2016. And it offered Mr B £50 in recognition of the poor service  hed received.
Mr B rejected Halifaxs offer and brought his complaint to this Service.  He says the bank 
should pay him more  compensation  to settle  his complaint.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
he thought Halifaxs  offer was fair in the circumstances and he wouldnt ask the bank to pay 
Mr B more  compensation.
Mr B disagreed so the complaint comes to me to decide. He said if you compare the rate of 
compensation Halifax have offered me to that of the highest paid executive of Halifax,  Im 
sure this will result in an astronomical difference.  I cannot believe that my time and 
frustrationhas been valued at £50.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I hope that Mr B wont  take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint. Our rules allow  me to do that. Mr B should note, however, that although  I may not 
address each individual point that hes raised,  I have given careful consideration to all of his 
submissions before arriving at my decision.
Ref: DRN43839692Having considered the evidence, Im afraid I have to tell Mr B that I think the adjudicator  has 
reached entirely the right outcome here.  To be honest, theres  very little I can add to what  
hes already said and I think the adjudicator  has set out the position very clearly.
First of all its important that I explain  that this service doesnt supervise,  regulate or 
discipline the businesses  we cover. And my role isnt to punish or penalise  businesses for 
their performance or behaviour  thats  the role of the regulator, in this case the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  So with this in mind,  it wouldnt be appropriate  for me to comment  on the 
financial crisis, executive  pay or other policy changes that Mr B might like to see.
My role is to look at problems that a consumer may have experienced and, in this case, see 
if Halifax has done anything wrong.  If it has, we seek to put the consumer back  in the 
position they wouldve been  in if the mistakes hadnt happened.  And we may award modest  
compensation that we think is fair and reasonable.
In this particular  case I can see that it was concerning for Mr B when the bank used the 
wrong date for his balance transfer  and it communicated the end of his promotional rate. But 
Ive also noted  that when  Mr B contacted it, Halifax apologised  for the mistake and confirmed 
that his account  had been conducted  as he expected; there  was nothing wrong with the 
account itself. And it offered him £50 compensation in recognition  of the service hed 
received.
So, taking everything  into consideration, Im satisfied Halifaxs offer of £50 is fair, reasonable 
and appropriate  under the circumstances and I dont  think  it needs to pay Mr B anything 
more.
For the reasons  given,  I reject this complaint.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4383969