K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK plc declined a cheque without good reason and failed to 
notify him that it had done so.
background
In late May 2018 Mr B sent a cheque made  out to Inland Revenue (now known as HMRC)  to 
settle his tax bill which was due on 31 July. On 15 June  the cheque  was declined  for 
payment by Santander. Mr B wasnt notified by Santander that this had happened and so he 
didnt notice until he checked his quarterly bank  statement in early August.
Mr B phoned  Santander to complain.  He was told cheques drawn on his account required a 
second signature. Santander later agreed this wasnt true. He was also told there was a 
problem with his signature on the cheque.  Mr B requested a copy  of the cheque, and on 
examination he established that it had been correctly signed.
Mr B complained again. Santander said the cheque had been declined  by HMRCs bank and 
it again told him the reason for this was a problem with his signature.  
After discussing the matter with HMRC,  Mr B complained to Santander again.  Santander  
apologised and explained  its initial explanation  had been incorrect. It told him the cheque  
had actually been declined because it had been altered, and the alteration should have had 
a signature beside  it. It acknowledged a mistake had been made and offered Mr B £40 for 
the stress  and inconvenience caused  by its error.
Mr B doesnt  accept the differing explanations given by Santander. He disagrees  that the 
cheque was altered  and believes Santander  was wrong to decline it. He feels it was 
Santanders responsibility to advise him the cheque had been declined in the first place and 
by failing to do so, he missed the deadline to pay his tax bill. He believes the late payment is 
likely to damage his reputation with HMRC. 
Our investigator didnt  think Santander  had done  anything wrong when it declined the 
cheque. She explained  the cheque was correctly declined because  an alteration  had been  
made. And she said it wasnt Santanders  responsibility to notify Mr B it had declined the 
cheque  he should have been  notified instead by HMRC. She thought the £40 
compensation Santander had offered was fair for the incorrect  information it gave. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said that the cheque shouldnt have been declined  and that Santander 
should pay him £5,000 to compensate him for reputational damage caused. 
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN45041062Ive taken on board everything Mr B has told us about the stress and inconvenience  that 
resulted from his cheque  being declined. I can fully appreciate why it was important for him 
that this transaction was handled  smoothly  and that his payment was made on time. But 
despite all that, I still dont think its reasonable to say Santander made a mistake or that it 
needs to compensate him further for what happened. Ill explain why.
Mr B says the cheque  was incorrectly declined and Santanders explanation as to why this 
happened isnt reasonable.  He says the cheque wasnt altered in any way and Santander is 
simply looking for excuses to justify what it did. 
I have examined a copy of the cheque and can see a ten digit number after the name of the 
payee and the handwriting appears  to be different. When I spoke with him Mr B said he had 
written out the cheque, but his wife had then added his revenue  account number, in line with 
HMRCs guidance. During  the clearing  process  it was noticed that the payee details had 
been added  to, using different handwriting. The cheque  was therefore returned to HMRC. It 
had been stamped Alteration requires drawers signature. This fact was confirmed by HMRC 
in a letter to Mr Bs accountant.
In common with all banks  Santander has fraud  prevention measures in place. It requires any 
amendment to a cheque to be signed  or initialled. The amendment  to the cheque was not 
signed or initialled. So I think Santander  was justified  in its decision to decline payment.  
Whilst I appreciate this may not have happened in previous years,  this suggests  to me that 
not all cheques are closely examined  and so some altered cheques may get through.
   
Mr B says having declined the cheque, Santander should have told him in order that he 
could deal with the matter  quickly and pay his tax bill on time. But the responsibility for 
informing Mr B that the cheque had been  returned unpaid lies with the payee, which  was 
HMRC in this case. Its not the responsibility of the bank which the cheque  is drawn  upon  to 
inform their customer it has declined to pay it. This is standard  banking practice. 
I acknowledge Santander provided an incorrect explanation about why the cheque had not 
been paid. It has admitted  its mistake and its because of this error that its offered £40 for 
stress and inconvenience. In my opinion this is proportionate compensation for the error  that 
was made.
I dont think Santander  has made  any mistake  when it rejected Mr Bs cheque, nor was it 
negligent when  it didnt inform him it had done  so. For those reasons I dont  think  its fair to 
recommend that Santander pay Mr B additional  compensation  for what  happened. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is Santander UK Plcs  offer of £40 
compensation is fair and reasonable. If it hasnt already, Santander should pay Mr B £40.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Jon Speed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4504106