K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc Barclays mis-sold her a number of 
packaged bank  accounts.
background
Mrs Cs account history  is as follows:
Opened as a fee-paying Additions account  on 17 January  2006
Downgraded to a fee-paying First Additions account on 5 February 2007
Upgraded to a fee-paying Additions account  on 7 May 2008
Upgraded to a fee-paying Additions Plus account on 9 May 2008
Downgraded to a fee-free account on 20 May 2008
Our adjudicators didnt  think the Additions account  and First Additions account sold in 2006  
and 2007 respectively were mis-sold. And as Mrs C wasnt charged the monthly account fee 
when holding the Additions  account  and Additions  Plus account in 2008, they didnt look into 
whether those accounts were mis-sold because Mrs C never  paid the monthly account fee to 
have those accounts. 
Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators views and asked for an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint. 
The complaint has since been passed to me for a final decision. I will only be addressing the 
sale of the Additions  and First Additions  accounts sold in 2006 and 2007 in my decision,  as 
Mrs C wasnt charged for the latter two packaged accounts.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mrs Cs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mrs Cs complaint a lot of thought, I dont  think the Additions or the First 
Additions accounts were  mis-sold to Mrs C. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mrs C was given a fair choice when she took her 
packaged bank  accounts.
In the questionnaire  that Mrs C completed, she said that shed held fee-free  accounts  before 
she was sold the Additions account.  And looking at Mrs Cs complaint points, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that she thought she had to have the packaged accounts. So I think  
Mrs C agreed  to the Additions and First Additions accounts, knowing that she didnt have to 
have a fee-paying  account and that fee-free options were generally available.
Ref: DRN41841812Mrs C says the accounts were sold over the phone and that the accounts were 
recommended to her. Whereas Barclays  says that the two packaged accounts were sold in 
Branch and on a non-advised  basis i.e. without a recommendation.
In terms of the method of sale, I think its more likely that the accounts were sold in a branch, 
rather than over the phone as Mrs C recalls.  I say this because Barclays  has provided  
screen shots from its system records which show that the two packaged accounts were sold 
in branch. And Mrs C says she recalls being  told about breakdown cover,  mobile phone 
insurance and travel  insurance  during  the sale of the accounts. But neither the Additions 
account (in 2006) nor the First Additions  account  (in 2007) offered all of these  benefits.  In 
fact, out of all of the packaged accounts  that Mrs C held, these were only all available  as a 
package on the Additions Plus account   which is a sale that Im not looking into in this 
decision. So it appears that Mrs Cs recollections  may relate to a later sale,  rather than the 
two sales that are the subject of this decision.   
As Ive seen  nothing to suggest that Barclays recommended the accounts to Mrs C, I think  
its most  likely that the Additions and First Additions accounts were sold on a non-advised 
basis. This means Barclays didnt have  to check if the accounts  were right for Mrs C. But it 
did have to give her important information about the accounts so that she could make an 
informed decision whether to take out the accounts.
In January 2006 the Additions  account cost £10 per month and provided breakdown cover,  
domestic emergency cover, purchase protection  and card holder  cover,  extended warranty  
cover and accidental  death cover. In addition  to these benefits,  it provided other benefits 
such as a £250 interest and fee free overdraft, with a reduce debit interest rate on balances 
overdrawn by more  than £250.
I can see that Mrs C used  the overdraft regularly in 2006, so I think  this mayve been a 
benefit that attracted her to the Additions  account. And Mrs C says she drove a car at the 
time, so couldve benefited  from the breakdown cover too. 
Mrs C has said that her vehicle wasnt covered by the policy,  but hasnt  provided  any further 
information about why she thinks it wasnt. Mrs C also says that if she knew  that the cover 
was only basic cover, rather than comprehensive cover, she wouldnt have agreed to the 
account. But Ive not seen  anything  to say that Mrs C was prevented  from relying on the 
breakdown cover due to its limitations. Plus I can see that it did provide  some enhanced 
levels of cover. For example it included Homecall  cover. And it included the option to 
upgrade the level of cover it provided. So I think if Barclays had given Mrs C more 
information about the Additions account,  I think its likely that Mrs C would still have agreed 
to it, given what it provided and the ability to increase breakdown  cover  levels  it provided.
Turning to the First Additions account, at the time it cost £6.50 compared to £11.50  per 
month for the Additions account. Therefore, when Mrs C changed  her account, it was a 
downgrade to a cheaper packaged  account. And it provided mobile phone and gadget 
insurance as well as cardholder protection. It also provided a £100 interest and fee-free 
overdraft benefit  and a reduced  debit interest rate on balances  overdrawn by more than 
£100 (in comparison to the debit interest rate on fee-free accounts).
Ref: DRN41841813Mrs Cs recollections dont  appear to distinguish the different account sales that took place. 
So its not clear  why exactly Mrs C thinks the First Additions account was also mis-sold.  But 
Mrs Cs comments  about breakdown cover dont  apply to the First Additions sale,  because it 
wasnt a benefit  of the account at the time.  And although Mrs C says she never  had a 
smartphone, a standard mobile phone wouldve still been covered by the mobile phone 
insurance that it did provide. 
Nevertheless, as Mrs C downgraded to a cheaper  account, this suggests that it was likely 
that she had an awareness of what  benefits she was receiving from the Additions  account 
and that she chose to have the cheaper First Additions account. Therefore, I think  there 
mustve been something that attracted Mrs C to the First Additions account, because  if she 
didnt want it, I wouldve expected her to have  downgraded to a fee-free account  instead. 
Furthermore, I can see that Mrs C kept the First Additions account  for over a year before she 
changed it again, which suggests there was something that it provided that mayve been of 
use to Mrs C.   
I cant be sure what information Mrs C was given during the sale of both accounts and it may 
have been the case that she was not told everything  about  all of the benefits that the 
accounts came with. But Ive not seen anything specific  about  Mrs Cs circumstances that 
makes me think that she wouldve been  put off from agreeing to them,  had she been given 
better information.
So for these reasons, I dont think the Additions account or the First Additions account sold 
in 2006 and 2007 respectively were  mis-sold.  I appreciate that this may come  as a 
disappointment to Mrs C, but I hope Ive been  able to explain the reasons why Ive reached 
this decision.  
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4184181