K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Coventry Building Society (CBS) mis-sold a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr P in 1994 in connection with a 
mortgage. The policy provided Mr P with cover if he couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. Mr P paid a monthly  amount  for the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr P disagreed with
the adjudicators  opinion  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
From what  Ive seen, it seems a broker may have been involved in the mortgage  application  
process. But I havent seen or been told anything to suggest that the broker gave any advice 
to Mr P about the PPI. Overall, Im satisfied that CBS was responsible for the sale of the 
policy.
From the evidence I have  seen I dont think that CBS recommended  the policy  to Mr P 
personally, so the key question I need  to consider  is:
- Did CBS give Mr P information that was clear,  fair and not misleading  in order to put 
him in a position where he could make  an informed choice about the insurance he 
was considering buying?
If the answer  to this question is no, then I need  to consider whether Mr P is worse off as a 
result. That is, would he have done  something different  such  as not taking out the policy  
if there had been  no problems  with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr P says PPI wasnt mentioned when he applied for his mortgage, and he didnt know  hed 
got the cover. Ive noted everything Mr P has said.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr P and CBS when 
the policy sold. Im also mindful that these events took place over twenty years ago, and that 
exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Ref: DRN43201472CBS hasnt been able to provide much  paperwork from the time the policy  was sold.  Thats 
not surprising  given the amount of time thats  passed since  the sale,  and its similar  to some 
other cases Ive seen. 
But CBS has provided a sample  of the mortgage application form that was in use at the time 
Mr P applied for his mortgage. This suggests  Mr P wouldve  had to make a choice about 
whether or not he wanted CBS to arrange the PPI cover.  On balance, I think  its unlikely that 
CBS wouldve arranged  the PPI for Mr P if he hadnt  indicated on the application form that 
he wanted to take the cover.
So without anything  else to support  what Mr P has told me, I havent  been able to safely 
conclude that CBS didnt make  him aware  that the policy was optional.
Theres nothing to suggest that Mr P didnt satisfy the eligibility requirements of the policy 
when taking it out.
I cant see that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated to Mr P before he agreed  to 
buy it. But he chose to take out the policy, knowing he would have to pay something for it. 
The policy was competitively priced  and had a reasonable  benefit.  So I dont think  Mr P 
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Mr P wasnt  affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover.  So I dont think he 
needed better information about the policys  exclusions  and limitations.
CBS didnt recommend  the policy to Mr P, so it didnt have to check his circumstances to 
make sure it was suitable for him. He had to decide  that for himself.
But even if CBS had recommended  the policy, from what Ive seen of Mr Ps circumstances I 
dont think it was unsuitable for him. The policy wouldve paid out in addition to the employer  
sick pay Mr P says he was entitled to. And it wouldve meant he could use those  benefits  
and his savings  to pay for other expenses. Mr P was borrowing a large amount for a long 
time, secured on his home, so failing to make the repayments promptly  couldve been  
serious for him. So I think  Mr P wouldve had some  use for the policy, despite his existing 
arrangements.
In summary,  I think its likely that Mr P agreed to take out the cover,  knowing he didnt have  
to. And given it provided broadly what I think he expected  when he agreed to it, I dont think 
he would  have made a different decision (and decided  against taking it out) if he had been 
better informed about its cost and terms.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4320147