K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the way in which  U K Insurance  Limited (UKI)  handled  his home  
insurance claim.
background
Mr H discovered  a leak in his home and made  a claim on his home insurance. UKI accepted 
the claim and a schedule of works  was done  to repair  the damage to the bathroom, hallway 
and stairs.  But UKI later said that while it was willing to cover  some of the claim, the damage 
to the bathroom  wasnt  covered under the terms of the policy  as the damage  had been 
caused gradually by wear  and tear, rather than by a one-off event. UKI offered a cash  
settlement as a gesture of goodwill  and offered  Mr H £100 compensation for its mistake.
Mr H wasnt happy with the proposed repair for the wall between the bathroom and the 
hallway, which is to plasterboard over the existing, damaged wall in the hallway. He doesnt 
believe the works can be carried out without  affecting the bathroom. And he doesnt want to 
cash settle the claim.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She said that UKI had provided 
evidence that it didnt need  to make any repairs to the bathroom and thought the £100 
compensation was fair in the circumstances. Mr H didnt agree so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same  reasons.
UKI says any damage to the bathroom  is caused by wear and tear  and Mr H doesnt 
dispute this. But Mr H doesnt think the proposed repair  for the wall which  separates  the 
bathroom and hallway is satisfactory or that it can be done without affecting the bathroom. 
During the course of the claim there  seems to have been different opinions on whether the 
wall needs  replacing  or whether the existing wall can be repaired. But Ive seen the most 
recent comments from an expert UKI consulted about this issue which states  that the 
hallway is able to be repaired  without affecting the bathroom. So Im satisfied that UKI took 
the appropriate steps to ascertain what it needed to cover under the policy.
Mr Hs policy  states that where  there is a claim it will choose whether to manage and pay for 
repairing or rebuildingor make  a cash payment so Im satisfied that under the terms of the 
policy, UKI is entitled to offer a cash  settlement  rather  than carry out the repairs itself.
Mr H has complained about the way in which UKI handled his claim.  He has been  unclear on 
what is happening  throughout the claim and appears  to have been given inaccurate 
information at the beginning  of his claim. Having reviewed UKIs file on this claim,  I think its 
clear that there have  been times that even  UKIs  own internal  staff have been unclear what  
is happening  so I think its likely Mr H was given incorrect information at times. And overall,  
I think Mr Hs claim  should  have been  handled  better than it was. So I think  the 
compensation UKI has offered  of £100  to reflect  the distress and inconvenience  this caused 
is fair in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN47818242Mr H has raised  a further complaint about  the new schedule of works  so I havent addressed 
that in this decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. If UKI hasnt done so already, it should 
pay Mr H a total of £100 compensation  either  as part of any cash settlement or under  
separate cover.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4781824