K820x#14complaint
Mr Ds complaint concerns a whole of life policy administered by The Royal  London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited. He feels the policy was mis-sold as there was no indication  that 
the premiums would increase by as much  as they have and the increases appear 
disproportionate to the corresponding increases in the policys sum assured. Mr D also feels  
the information provided about the policy  reviews  is unclear and misleading.
background
Mr D took out the policy in 2003. It provided an initial  sum assured  of £170,000 but this was 
indexed, meaning  it rose annually in line with the rate of inflation.  The policy was set up on 
the basis of providing  career  cover   so with the intention of it broadly providing  protection 
until retirement. 
The policy was reviewed  in 2013 and 2018 and on both occasions  failed the reviews,  
meaning that increases in addition to the annual indexation increases were  required to 
maintain the sum assured. 
In response to Mr Ds concerns Royal London highlighted that the policy had been sold by 
an independent financial adviser (IFA), which was therefore the business responsible for 
ensuring the policy had been  suitable for Mr Ds needs and circumstances. Royal  Londons 
responsibilities extended only to ensuring  the policy was administered  correctly. 
And in this respect, it felt it had done  nothing wrong.  It said the policy had been  reviewed as 
it shouldve been  at the correct times  and that the resulting increases in premium  were due 
to the increasing  cost of life cover provided by the policy.  
It noted Mr Ds point  about the review increases not being shown as a percentage in the 
same ways as the annual  indexation increases were. But it didnt feel this was wrong as it 
wouldnt be usual to show the review increases in this way. 
Mr D referred  his complaint to this service where  our investigator reached broadly the same  
conclusions as Royal London. She didnt  feel the complaint should be upheld.     
As Mr D remained unhappy, the matters  been referred to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As noted,  Im not considering the suitability  of the policy for Mr D, only whether or not Royal 
London has administered  it correctly, in line with the terms and conditions. And having 
looked closely at the documentation Ive seen nothing that suggests Royal  London made an 
error in its administration. 
The annual indexation increases appear to have been carried  out correctly. I note Mr Ds 
comments about proportionality. But the terms of the policy  dont say that the increases in 
premium resulting from the increases  in the sum assured will be proportionate. They explain 
that the calculation of the new premium to support  the indexed sum assured will depend on 
a number of factors.   
Ref: DRN46353612And in respect  of the review increases,  these  too appear to be in keeping  with the terms and 
to have been carried out on the correct career cover basis, identified at the outset. As the 
policy progresses the cost of life cover becomes increasingly expensive.  And the ability of 
the premiums to support this increasing cost is dependent upon the investment performance. 
So its not unusual,  even with a defined  target  sustainability such as the career cover on Mr 
Ds policy, for some increase to be required at the point of a review, as the initial premium 
(indexation allowing in this case) is only guaranteed  up until the point of the first review.  
So, in summary,  Im unable to conclude that Royal London acted incorrectly  or unreasonably 
in its administration  of Mr Ds policy. While I can understand his disappointment with the 
increased costs he does have the options, as has been highlighted to him by Royal  London, 
of stopping the indexation or reducing  the sum assured in order to reduce the premiums.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4635361