K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with 
Lloyds Bank  PLC was not of satisfactory quality and that Lloyds  did not provide him with the 
service it should have when he raised  his complaint.
background
Mr S entered into a HPA with Lloyds in August 2017  for a car. He experienced issues with 
the car in regard  to the heater, bumper and door.  He reported these to Lloyds and was not 
happy with it referring  to the issues as 'potential issues', when he says they were  clearly  
present. Mr S discussed  the issues with the dealer and offers were made including a 
possible replacement.
Mr S says that in response to his complaint  Lloyds  failed to correctly  acknowledge the value  
and coverage of the protection  product he had acquired and suggested the damage to the 
door occurred while  he had the car. He says that the dealer accepted  there was damage  to 
the door at the point of supply and Lloyds had not taken this evidence  into account.  He also 
says that while the inspection  report said the damage could have happened while  Mr S was 
in possession of the car Lloyds then misrepresented this point by saying the inspection 
report said the damage would have happened while Mr S had the car.
Because of Lloyds  response to his complaint,  Mr S says he felt forced  to accept the dealer's  
offer of returning  the car and paying  for usage.  He says this cost him £3,000. Mr S also says 
that Lloyds would not consider a discount for any loss of use while  he had chosen not to 
drive the car. Mr S says this is not fair as the complaint took a long time to resolve and he 
was not happy driving  the car due to the usage  charge  and the risk of further damage and 
associated costs.
Mr S says that the car was mis-sold  and he should have been able to return it and get a full 
refund. As well as the refund Mr S wants an apology from Lloyds, and compensation for the 
suggestion that he had caused damage  to the car, and also an admission  that Lloyds 
falsified the inspection report.
Lloyds says that Mr S contacted it in February  2018, raising  issues  with his car's heater, 
bumper and door. It says Mr S indicated that he wanted to reject the car. Lloyds says it 
investigated Mr S' complaint and upheld  it in part. It says that in regard  to the bumper  the 
dealer confirmed that it was a condition of sale that this would be resprayed,  and that 
although a repair was carried out the dealer accepted this was not satisfactory and agreed to 
cover the cost of a further repair by the manufacturer. It accepted that the heater issue was 
most likely present from the point of supply. It did not uphold the complaint in regard to the 
door.
Lloyds says that the inspection report noted the damage would have been visible  to anyone 
in the motor trade, and as it was not recorded on the pre-delivery paperwork there was no 
evidence that the issue was present at the point of supply.
Lloyds offered to pay Mr S £100 as a gesture of goodwill for the trouble and upset he had 
been caused.
Ref: DRN46572182Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He thought that Lloyds had dealt with Mr S' 
complaint fairly and that the offer to pay him £100  in recognition  of the trouble and upset  he 
had been caused was reasonable.
Mr S did not accept our adjudicator's view. He said his complaint was that Lloyds ignored the 
fact that the dealer had accepted blame for selling  a substandard car, and that it had altered 
evidence in regard  to the inspection report. Mr S said that Lloyds had insinuated that he had 
committed fraud, and he'd spent an extended  period believing he would be left to pay for a 
substandard car. Mr S said the £100  compensation was not sufficient  given the stress this 
issue had caused  him.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
reasonable actions had been taken in regard  to Mr S complaint about  the cars  bumper 
and heater. The outstanding issue related  to the damage to the door;
I couldnt say for sure when the damage to the door occurred, but found  on balance  it 
was more likely than not to have been present at the point of supply;
the car was returned and so the usual remedy of repair could not be undertaken;
Mr S was upset that the inspection report said the door damage  would  have happened  
while in his possession  rather  than could have happened but I accepted this was a 
mistake and that Lloyds had accepted  a mistake was made;
Mr S agreed with the dealer  to return the car and agreed the settlement amount and 
I didnt think that Lloyds was required to do anything further  in regard to this;
although Mr S had said he did not wish to drive  the car while  his complaint  was 
investigated the issues raised did not prevent him from having  safe use of the car;
the evidence  regarding the door should  have  been considered further by Lloyds. Had this 
happened, this complaint may not have been raised (given  the other issues  Mr S 
complained about  were upheld),  or could have been  dealt with sooner;
although Lloyds  offered compensation of £100  in its final response letter, this was when 
the issue of the door was not upheld. I thought the trouble and upset Mr S' was caused in 
regard to the issue with the door needed to be reflected in the compensation offer. 
I thought a total of £250 was fair and reasonable.
Mr S responded to my provisional decision.  He said the car had been returned  and been 
advertised for £40,000 suggesting the deprecation on his car was no more than £400 when 
he was charged £2,805.  He felt he had not been treated fairly and that his complaint had not 
been correctly  handled.
Mr S said that Lloyds had not suggested  he had caused the damage but clearly stated the 
damage happened while in his possession.  This was despite the dealer having accepted the 
damage was present  at the point  of delivery.  He did not accept that the change of word  from 
could to would in the inspection report was a mistake. He said it was deliberate  and he did 
not accept that Lloyds  had admitted its mistake and he still wanted an apology for this.
Ref: DRN46572183Mr S reiterated that he felt he was forced  to accept the settlement offered by the dealer  
given the final response he had received from Lloyds. He further said that my provisional 
decision was inconclusive  in regard to the damage  to the door and that there was no doubt  
this was present  at the point of supply.
Mr S did not consider  my suggestion  of an additional  £150  compensation (additional  to the 
£100 offered by Lloyds) was sufficient  given the time and stress  this issue  has caused him.
Lloyds did not respond to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to consider each case based  on its own individual merits. I understand that Mr S 
has not been satisfied with the service he has received while his complaint has been  
investigated. However my role is to take fresh  look at the case  and then make  a decision 
based on my findings. 
As I set out in my provisional  decision I thought  on balance that it was more  likely than not 
that the damage to the door occurred before Mr S took delivery. I understand that Mr S 
thinks this is not conclusive and has stated that the damage definitely occurred before 
delivery. However there is conflicting  evidence in this case and so I dont find I can say when  
the damage definitely happened. However  by accepting on balance it happened before  
delivery I have required  Lloyds to take action in regard to this issue.
I can see that the word  change from could to would caused Mr S a great  deal of upset.  
However I set out my thoughts in regard to this in my provisional  decision. While I take on 
board Mr S comment about  it being a deliberate act, I have accepted what Lloyds has said 
about it being a mistake. As Lloyds has acknowledged the mistake I find this is sufficient in 
regard to this issue.
I understand that Mr S felt pressured into accepting the offer from the dealer. However I still 
find that it was his choice to accept the offer and as he agreed to it I do not find that there is 
anything further  Lloyds is required to do in regard  to this.
I know my decision is a disappointment to Mr S and that he feels  compensation totalling 
£250 is not enough. However, as I set out in my provisional decision,  I find this a reasonable 
amount in this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should  pay Mr S £250 compensation for the 
trouble and upset  he has been caused  in bringing his complaint (that is £150 additional to its 
previous £100  offer).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Jane Archer
Ref: DRN46572184ombudsman
Ref: DRN4657218