K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled  a claim made  on his motor  
insurance policy leaving Mrs A with a County  Court Judgement (CCJ) against her. He wants  
this removed from their records and compensation.
background 
Mrs A, a named driver on Mr As policy, had an accident in January 2017  and reported this 
to UKI. In December 2017, Mrs A received a letter telling her that the other  driver intended to 
take her to court. She sent this to UKI and she said it told her it would handle things. Mrs A 
subsequently received  a CCJ against her. Mrs A said she hadnt  been able to get work 
because of this and Mr A was unable to get finance for the balloon payment required for the 
finance agreement  for his car. Mrs A also said her health was affected. 
UKI agreed  that it had made an error.  It said the solicitors didnt receive the required 
documentation due to an error.  It paid Mr A £600 compensation for the trouble and upset 
and it said it would act to have the CCJ removed.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She couldnt  see 
evidence of the financial impact of the CCJ on Mr A and Mrs A. But she did see that it had 
affected Mrs As health. Also, Mrs A was told that it would take nine months to get the CCJ 
fully removed from the credit record. So, to recognise the impact this would have, she 
thought UKI should pay Mr A £800  further  compensation and get the CCJ fully removed. 
UKI didnt  agree to do this. It said the CCJ had been removed within  two months.  It 
questioned the evidence  Mrs A provided  of the effect of the CCJ on her health. The 
investigator then further recommended  that UKI pay £250 further compensation. But Mrs A 
asked for a further  £1,500  to reflect the impact the CCJ had on them.  She also said she 
hadnt been told the CCJ had been removed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurer has made  an error, as UKI has agreed that it did here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers  position to what it would  have been without that error, as far as its 
possible to do so. We also look at evidence of the impact  the error had on the consumer  
when considering compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by it.
Mrs A received the notice that the CCJ had been applied  in July 2018  and sent it to UKI. It 
took UKI two weeks to send instructions to its solicitors. By then it was too late and the 
solicitors told Mrs A it could take up to nine months to remove it. As it turned out, it actually  
took about two months to do this as I can see that the CCJ was set aside in late August 
2018.
Mrs A said she wasnt told the CCJ had been removed. But Ive seen  notes of a telephone 
call from UKIs solicitors  that show that this was done. The call then went  on to discuss the 
liability aspects of the claim. Ive also seen court records showing that a letter  was sent to 
Mrs A confirming that the CCJ had been  removed.  So I think Mrs A was told that the CCJ 
had been removed in early September.  So Ill consider the impact this had on Mr and Mrs A.
UKI said it paid Mr A and Mrs A £600  compensation for the trouble and upset caused by 
having the error applied. This included  £500  for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
Ref: DRN42166622the CCJ, which is in keeping with our usual  approach. UKI added  a further £100 
compensation as the CCJ letter had arrived at a significant date for Mrs A and had spoiled 
her enjoyment. I think this was fair and reasonable compensation for receiving the CCJ and 
the spoiled day. Its in keeping with what Id usually require. 
UKI told Mrs A to let it know  if she had evidence that the CCJ was affecting  her employment. 
Mrs A said the CCJ had prevented her from getting work. But shes  also said that this cant  
be proved as employers  dont  specifically  say a rejection  was due to the CCJ. The 
investigator asked for further details of this, but she didnt provide any. So I havent seen any 
evidence that the CCJ affected Mrs As employment. And therefore I cant  consider that 
further. 
Mrs A said the CCJ had affected their cars finance. But I havent  seen any evidence  to show 
this. I can see that UKI advised Mrs A that they shouldnt apply for finance  whilst the CCJ 
was in place as this could  have further repercussions.  I think thats fair and reasonable. But 
without evidence, I cant consider the financial impact of the CCJ further.
Mrs A provided us with medical evidence of the impact the CCJ had on her health. UKI 
questioned this as it was a doctors  report based on what Mrs A had told her. But I note that 
the doctor confirms the medical  concern started at the date Mrs A received the CCJ. So I 
think its unfair for UKI to dismiss this expert medical  evidence.  
UKI paid Mr A and Mrs A £600 compensation for the effect  of the CCJ on them. I cant see 
evidence that the CCJ had any financial or employment impact on Mr A and Mrs A. But UKI 
didnt instruct its solicitors  until two weeks after Mrs A had told them  about  the CCJ. I think 
its removal could have  been hastened  if UKI had instructed  its solicitors  sooner. I can also 
see that Mrs A was told it could take up to nine months to have the CCJ removed which  I 
think caused her undue worry. 
I think theres sufficient evidence that the CCJ contributed to Mrs As ill-health. So I think UKI 
should pay further compensation for this and its avoidable delay in having the CCJ removed. 
The investigator has recommended £250. I think this is fair and reasonable as its what  Id 
recommend in similar situations. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance  Limited to pay Mr A 
£250 further (£850 in total) compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  by its 
level of service. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4216662