K820x#14Complaint
Mr W has complained about various  issues with National Westminster  Bank  Plcs  
administration of his bank account.
Background
NatWest refunded just over £3,600  of direct debits to Mr Ws account  because he disputed 
that he owed the money to the supplier (who Ill refer to as S). NatWest said it told Mr W 
that it would  contact S to see if the payments were  owed  to it and, if they were, the refund 
would be reversed  which  in turn would mean  Mr W would need to cover the payments. S 
told NatWest that the money was owed, so NatWest reversed the refund. Following the 
reversal the account was overdrawn by just over £5,500.
Mr W complained  to NatWest about the refund being reversed (Ill refer to this as the direct 
debit complaint).
The account  remained overdrawn by about  £5,500 until a few months later when just over 
£11,000 was paid into the account.  These were benefit payments paid by the Department of 
Work and Pensions. Mr W then withdrew £7,358.04. That left the account balance at £2,000  
overdrawn (which was Mr Ws agreed overdraft limit).
Mr W complained  to NatWest because it used some  of the funds paid by the DWP to clear  
the overdraft that had accrued due to the direct  debit refund being reversed (Ill refer to this 
as the benefits  complaint). Irrespective of the direct debit complaint, Mr W felt the law 
prevented NatWest from using funds  paid to him as benefits to clear any outstanding 
overdraft.
NatWest didnt think it had done anything wrong. But it offered Mr W £150 compensation in 
respect of some  other  issues he had raised.
Mr W remained unhappy so he referred  the matter to us. He said benefits  had been taken 
from his account  in order to clear  an unauthorised  overdraft that shouldnt  have been there in 
the first place.
In a conversation  with our investigator  Mr W mentioned a further issue.  This happened in 
2017 when he paid a company (who Ill refer to as R) to rent some  office  space. He didnt  
receive the service  he paid for as the office was still under construction.  He said NatWest 
told him to put in a claim and it would refund the money (just over £3,000).  He complained to 
NatWest because it later refused to refund the money. Ill refer to this as the office space 
complaint.
Our investigator wrote to NatWest and Mr W outlining her conclusions.  Overall, she didnt  
think NatWest had acted  unfairly. In summary, she said:
-NatWest has treated Mr W fairly  when it reversed the direct debit refund;
-It wasnt unreasonable for NatWest to use some  of the money paid into the account to 
repay the unauthorised overdraft; and
-We couldnt investigate the office space complaint as Mr W didnt bring  it to us in time.
Mr W disagreed  with our investigator. He said she hadnt referred  to the relevant  legislation  
or to the principles  detailed by the regulator. Our investigator said the legislation Mr W raised 
Ref: DRN44732562referred to a charge on benefit  payments and makes it an offence to offer (or accept) a 
benefits entitlement as security for a debt. She went on to say that the word charge meant 
security on a loan and not charges  levied  by a bank. She said the legislation  didnt mean  
NatWest couldnt  levy charges on an account  if benefit payments are paid into it. Mr W still 
disagreed with our investigator so the matter has been referred  to me to review.
Complaints I cant look at
I cant consider, investigate or decide  a complaint if its referred to us more  than six months  
after the date on which the business complained  about sent its final response  letter.
The office space  complaint
NatWest wrote to Mr W on 18 April 2018  outlining its final response to this complaint. It said 
it couldnt refund Mr Ws account because the payments were genuine payments made by 
him and were credited in good faith to the correct account they were  intended  for. NatWest 
also explained that if Mr W was unhappy  with the outcome he could refer the matter  to us, 
but that he had to do so within six months  of the date of the letter, i.e. by 18 October 2018.
We received Mr Ws direct debit complaint and benefits complaint on 12 April 2019, and 
Mr W told us about  the office space  complaint  on 16 May 2019. So, whichever date is used,  
Mr W didnt refer the office space complaint to us within six months of the date NatWest sent 
him its final response.
Exceptions
There are two exceptions to the rule that might  allow me to waive the time limit. The first is if 
NatWest consents to us looking  at the complaint even though the time limit has expired. But 
NatWest hasnt given  its consent for us to look at the complaint. It said in its final response  
letter that if Mr W didnt refer the complaint to us in time we wont have its permission to 
consider the complaint. 
The second  is if, in my view, Mr Ws failure  to comply with the time limit was as a result  of 
exceptional circumstances.  For clarity,  there needs to have been exceptional circumstances, 
and those circumstances must have  been the reason why Mr W wasnt able to comply  with 
the time limit. 
Mr W has told us that he has had serious mental  health issues which prevented him from 
following through with his complaint. Ive seen a letter from his GP which confirms that he 
has been diagnosed with several mental  health conditions. I accept that these conditions 
might amount to exceptional circumstances if theyre severe enough. But I havent seen any 
medical evidence  which details the severity  of the conditions or how they impacted Mr Ws 
ability to refer his complaints  to us.
However, even if I ruled in Mr Ws favour on this point and concluded that the conditions did 
amount to exceptional  circumstances, they would still have had to have been the reason why 
he wasnt able to comply  with the time limit. And Im not persuaded, based on what Ive 
seen, that they were.
This is because during  the six month period following NatWests  letter  dated 18 April 2018 
Mr W was able to contact  NatWest and raise the direct debit complaint. So his conditions  
Ref: DRN44732563didnt prevent him from raising that issue with NatWest. Accordingly, Im not persuaded they 
prevented him from raising the complaint  with us in the necessary timescale either.
Conclusion
Mr W didnt bring  his complaint about  the office space to us within  the time scale allowed in 
NatWests final response  letter dated 18 April 2018. As NatWest hasnt given its consent and 
I dont think Mr Ws circumstances  prevented him bring the complaint to us in the timescale  
allowed, Im unable to consider  it.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and Ill explain why.
The direct debit complaint
To decide this complaint, Ive considered whether NatWest acted reasonably in reversing the 
refund it made to Mr W in respect of his direct debit indemnity  claim.
Mr W claimed  under  the rules of the direct debit guarantee scheme   a refund of payments 
made by direct debit  to S. He says he didnt owe S the money it has taken  from his account 
by direct debit.
I think the wording on the direct debit guarantee suggests that it protects  consumers in the 
event of errors of an administrative  nature. It says: 
If there are any changes  to the amount, date or frequency of your Direct Debit  the 
organisation will notify you (normally 10 working  days) in advance  of your account  
being debited  or as otherwise agreed. If you request the organisation to collect a 
payment, confirmation  of the amount and date will be given  to you at the time of the 
request.
Mr Ws complaint  is that he disputes the amount he owes  S. Because S disagreed with Mr 
W, NatWest had no choice  but to debit the money  back out of Mr Ws account. It isnt 
NatWests role to decide which party is genuinely owed the money. All it can do is follow  the 
direct debit guarantee process.  
The direct debit guarantee  wording also explains what  should happen if a consumer makes 
a claim.  It says:
If an error is made in the payment of your Direct  Debit, by the organisation or your 
bank or building society, you are entitled  to a full and immediate refund of the amount 
paid from your bank or building  society.
If you receive a refund  you are not entitled  to, you must pay it back  when  the 
organisation asks you to.
In this case, NatWest  did credit Mr Ws account with the disputed  amount. But as Mr W 
wasnt protected under the direct  debit guarantee scheme, it reversed this payment. I think it 
did so in line with direct debit guarantee, so I dont think it acted unreasonably.
Ref: DRN44732564I understand Mr W is in a very difficult financial position. But I think  his dispute  in relation to 
this part of his complaint  is with S, so it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to find that 
NatWest should  bear the cost of the disputed payments.
I know Mr W has complained that NatWest told him it wouldnt return his payments to S. Ive 
seen that NatWest upheld this part of his complaint along with some issues  relating to him 
being kept on-hold and NatWest not returning  a call. It offered him £150  as compensation for 
these errors,  though  it wasnt able to find evidence they occurred. I think this is a reasonable 
offer in the circumstances. I say this because  its clear to me that if Mr W was told the 
amount refunded to him would not be reversed, it was an error. Thats not something I would 
ask NatWest to fulfil and I think it resulted in Mr W suffering a loss of expectation  rather  than 
a financial one.
The benefits  complaint
Mr W says NatWest wasnt allowed to use the money paid into his account in October 2018 
to pay back his unauthorised overdraft balance  because  it was a part of a benefits payment. 
He says the Social Security  Administration Act 1992  prohibits banks from using funds from 
benefits in this way. And he disputes that the money was owed, as explained  in the part of 
the complaint  Ive called  the direct  debit complaint. 
I wont address the issue of whether  Mr W owed the amount in question to NatWest   by 
way of an unauthorised overdraft   any further. Ive outlined  my findings  about that under 
the direct  debit complaint. For clarity, those findings  mean I do think Mr W owed the amount 
in question to NatWest. So, to decide  the benefits  complaint , Ive considered whether it was 
reasonable for NatWest to use the money paid to Mr Ws account  in October 2018 to repay 
his unauthorised overdraft. In doing so, Ive thought  about the legislation  Mr W has pointed 
to, his financial circumstances  at the time and what is fair to both parties.
Mr Ws account statements show that his account  had a positive balance of over £5,000  
following the benefits payment hes referred  to. The benefits  payment was approximately 
£11,000. The account had a negative  balance of over £5,000 from June 2018  when 
NatWest claimed back the money it refunded under the direct  debit guarantee  until the day 
of the benefits  payment. So, the positive balance was net of his authorised  overdraft  
£2,000  and his unauthorised overdraft. An amount of over £7,000  was withdrawn  from the 
account on the same day to leave it up to the authorised overdraft limit of £2,000.
Ive considered the legislation and industry  standards. I agree that, generally, its fair that 
benefit recipients  should have access to the benefits  theyre paid so that theyre able to 
cover their living expenses. But I dont  think  Mr Ws financial circumstances at the time  as 
outlined above  in the movement of money through his bank  account   fall under  that 
scenario.
I accept that Mr Ws financial circumstances were  difficult. But given the amount of money 
remaining available to Mr W after the unauthorised overdraft was cleared, I dont think  
NatWest prevented him from having  access to sufficient finds for living  expenses. And even 
if the funds from the benefits payment hadnt been used to clear  the unauthorised overdraft, 
given my findings on the direct debit complaint, I think NatWest wouldve been  entitled to 
pursue him for repayment.  So I dont think NatWest acted unreasonably.
Ref: DRN44732565In summary
I know Mr Ws financial circumstances  are extremely difficult,  but I have to reach my decision 
based on whats fair to both parties.  With that in mind, I dont think  NatWest  has acted 
unreasonably in respect of either  complaint Ive been able to consider.
My final decision
Given the above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about National Westminster  Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4473256