K822xcomplaint
Ms L complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim she wanted to make  
under her private medical insurance policy. 
background
Ms L had previously had breast reconstruction surgery.  Some years later the implant in her 
right breast ruptured. Ms L advised  Aviva shed been told the implant needed replacing, and 
that she would also need surgery on her left breast  to achieve symmetry. 
Aviva advised Ms L it would cover the replacement of the implant, but it wouldnt cover the 
surgery to achieve  symmetry. Ms L found  this very upsetting. Ms L then underwent  a 
bilateral mastectomy on the NHS. She was later told by Aviva  that it would have covered a 
DIEP flap reconstruction. She thought  this information should  have been given to her 
sooner. She made a complaint. 
Aviva recognised Ms L was upset when it first informed her that it wouldnt cover the surgery  
for symmetry. It offered her £100  compensation. Ms L refused this offer and brought her 
complaint to this service.  
Aviva told us it would  increase its offer of compensation to £300.  Our adjudicator  thought this 
was reasonable  in the circumstances and didnt  think  Aviva needed to do anything more. 
Ms L was unhappy with the adjudicators findings.  The matter has therefore been passed  to 
me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ms L has explained that following a diagnosis of breast cancer some years ago, she had a 
mastectomy of her right breast and had reconstruction  using an implant. She also had a 
breast reduction operation to her left breast  for symmetry reasons. This was covered by 
Aviva. In 2018,  the implant  in her right breast  ruptured. She needed surgery  to put right the 
ruptured implant, but also needed surgery on her left breast  to achieve symmetry. 
Ms L is unhappy that Aviva said it would only cover the surgery  to put right the ruptured 
implant, and wouldnt  cover surgery on her left breast for symmetry  reasons.  
As the adjudicator has explained, we dont tell a business what  it should or shouldnt cover. 
Our role is to look at whether a business  has dealt with a claim fairly, and in line with its 
policy terms. 
The policy covers treatment for an acute medical  condition. Thats defined in the policy as a 
disease, illness or injury  that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which  aims to return 
you to the state  of health you were in immediately before suffering the disease, illness or 
injury, or which leads to your full recovery.
Whilst I understand Ms L was in a lot of pain when the implant  initially  ruptured, it seems this 
had largely subsided by the time she contacted Aviva about the claim. Therefore, I cant  
Ref: DRN41031402conclude the ruptured implant ought  to be considered an injury  and therefore fall under the 
definition of an acute  medical condition. Consequently,  I think  Aviva was right to consider the 
claim under the cosmetic treatment exclusion.  
The policy says:
Cosmetic treatment
We do not cover treatmentthat is intended to change your appearancewhether or not 
this is carried out for psychological or medical  reasons. 

BUT: We will cover a surgical procedure to restore your appearance if:
the surgical procedure immediately follows an accident, or treatment for cancer, and
the accident or cancer treatment took place when you were covered under the policy 
and you have had no break in cover  since then. 
If you have an implant  or implants following treatment for cancer  we will pay for the removal 
and replacement of the implant or implants at the end of their lifespan providing you were 
covered under the policy when the cancer treatment  took place and you have had no break 
in cover since then.
I interpret the policy  terms to mean that if the appearance of one breast has been affected  
because of an accident or treatment for cancer,  then restoring appearance would mean not 
only restoring the appearance of the affected  breast,  but also achieving symmetry if needed 
on the other unaffected breast.  
It seems  Aviva  accepts this as it previously covered the surgery Ms L had to the left breast to 
achieve symmetry. The reason for that was because that surgical procedure was to restore  
Ms Ls appearance immediately following  treatment  for cancer. 
Ms L says the implant in her right breast ruptured in an accident. She explains she was 
leaning into a wheelie  bin when it happened. 
Ive looked at the information provided by Ms Ls consultant,  and he doesnt mention the 
implant rupturing in an accident. He says Ms L developed pain in her right breast and an 
ultrasound showed the implant  had ruptured.  And in any case, even if the implant ruptured 
accidentally, given that Ms L didnt suffer injury I dont think  she could be said to have 
suffered an accident  in the way I believe the policy was meant to be interpreted.  So Ms Ls 
claim wasnt for a surgical procedure  immediately following either an accident  or treatment 
for cancer.
Instead, I think the appropriate  way to regard the ruptured implant was to say it had simply 
reached the end of its lifespan (even if that was earlier than expected).
I understand that breast implants dont last a lifetime and a known complication is that they 
can rupture and require  replacing. I think it was fair for Aviva to approach Ms Ls claim in this 
way. The policy confirms  that, because the implant  had been  inserted following treatment for 
cancer, the removal and replacement  of the implant would be covered  but I dont think the 
policy implies that, in these circumstances, Aviva would again additionally cover surgery  to 
the left breast to achieve symmetry.
Following the rupture, the consultant said that one option was to leave things as they were. 
However, he didnt  recommend that because the implant had ruptured and this could cause 
Ref: DRN41031403silicone lymphadenopathy.  The other options  were  to replace the implant or remove  the 
implant altogether  and have a DIEP flap reconstruction. 
Given that Avivas obligations  under the policy were only to cover the removal and 
replacement of the implant, Im satisfied that it was appropriate for Aviva to say that surgery 
to the left breast for symmetry reasons wouldnt  be covered under the policy.
Ms L has explained how upset she felt after Avivas  representative told her the surgery  for 
symmetry reasons wouldnt be covered. She thought the representative  had absolutely  no 
empathy or understanding at all of her situation. 
Ive listened to the call in question, and I do think Avivas representative could have 
expressed more empathy  than he did. Aviva has accepted this and offered Ms L £300 
compensation to recognise how upset she was. Like the adjudicator, I think this was 
reasonable. 
Ms L says that Aviva told her it would cover  a one-sided DIEP flap reconstruction.  However, 
by that time shed  already  undergone a bilateral  mastectomy on the NHS. She thinks Aviva 
should have told her the options available to her far sooner.  
When Ms L initially spoke  with Aviva on 3 April, she advised her implant had ruptured. 
Avivas representative  said that potentially the policy would cover the replacement of the 
implant, but they needed to know what her consultant was proposing  in terms of treatment 
and so would need some more information.  Ms L terminated that call because she was 
upset after learning  that Aviva  wouldnt  cover  the surgery  for symmetry.  
Someone else at Aviva then called Ms L back and again advised  her they needed  
information from her specialist. This wasnt received  until 15 May. By that time,  Ms L had 
already undergone a bilateral mastectomy. She says she did this at the thought  of being 
asymmetrical and that Aviva wouldnt fund any surgery other than the replacement of the 
implant. 
I dont think Aviva did anything wrong  here. Aviva had told Ms L it would need to see a report 
from her specialist to see what treatment he was proposing. Once Aviva had considered that 
report, it decided  it would  cover the cost of the DIEP flap reconstruction  if Ms L wanted to 
have that. It advised  Ms L of this, but she had already had the bilateral  mastectomy. 
As Ive said,  I think Aviva  was only obliged  under  the policy to cover the removal and 
replacement of the implant. I dont think it was required to fund the DIEP flap reconstruction.
However, its still the case that Aviva wouldnt have covered any surgery to the left breast  for 
symmetry purposes. Therefore, even  if Ms L had decided to go ahead with the DIEP flap 
reconstruction, shes confirmed she would have still required surgery to the left breast to 
achieve symmetry. As Aviva wouldnt have covered this, she would have still needed to pay 
for it herself.   
I dont think Avivas handling of the claim resulted in Ms L undergoing a bilateral mastectomy  
that she wouldnt have  otherwise had if shed known from the outset that it was willing  to 
cover the DIEP flap reconstruction.  I therefore dont  uphold this aspect of her complaint. 
Ref: DRN41031404my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Aviva  Insurance Limited to 
pay Ms L £300 compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4103140