K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Ms T are unhappy  that they werent  given details of the property theyd insured by 
Thamesbank Insurance  Services  on auto renewal  so ended up taking out another policy on 
the same  property
background
Mr S and Ms T had their home insurance  through Thamesbank. They  also had three let 
properties. When they received the renewal  notice from Thamesbank for their home 
address, it didnt identify  what  address the insurance  related to. Ms T assumed  that it related 
to one of their other properties although  neither  he nor Mr S checked  the position  with 
Thamesbank. Mr S wanted  to change their home insurance anyway so went  ahead and 
arranged insurance  for it elsewhere. 
Mr S realised that he had had the premium debited  for the insurance arranged  through  
Thamesbank some six months later. He advised  Thamesbank who sought reimbursement 
from the insurer it had arranged cover with on the basis of the dual insurance procedure  
(whereby each insurer providing cover refunds 50% of the premiums). This reimbursement, 
with a cancellation fee, was obtained.  But when approached for its refund the other insurer 
suggested that Mr S keep  that policy on full cover  and that the other (Thamesbank) insurer 
agree to cancel  their policy  in its entirety  back to the start, providing a full refund. 
Mr S wasnt  happy with this and advised  Thamesbank that if it had told him the address for 
the property covered by the renewal  details it had sent out, he wouldnt have ended  up being  
dual insured. Thamesbank said it should have sent out the schedule  with the renewal letter  
but pointed out that neither he nor Ms T had queried  the position at the time.  It was satisfied 
that it had followed  the dual insurance  procedure and that Mr S had received the appropriate 
refund less any cancellation charges.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Thamesbank should refund the 
balance of the policy premium to Mr S and Ms T, as it had failed to advise  him what address 
was insured when  it sent the renewal  notice.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that although I thought Thamesbank should have 
sent a copy of the schedule to Mr S and Ms T at renewal, it was up to them to check the new 
insurance was suitable  for their needs.  I noted that neither Mr S nor Ms T checked  which  
address the insurance related to before taking out new insurance. There is an industry 
recognised practice  in the case of dual insurance,  which Mr S and Ms T should  take up with 
the other dual Insurer.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
These were  my provisional findings:
Ref: DRN48641612Mr S and Ms T advise us that they have  four properties including  their home. When  they 
received the insurance renewal it didnt have  an address on it so they couldnt identify what  
property it related to. Ms T forwarded the renewal notice to Mr S by email  saying  she thought 
it related to another of their properties. As far as I can see neither of them thought  to check  
with Thamesbank.
Mr S made the decision that he was going to change the insurance on their own property 
and duly took out a policy elsewhere. But he has told us that the insurances on their various 
properties come up at different times. So I would have thought that, by taking out the new 
policy at that time with the auto renewal  notice in front of him around the same time, he 
would have ensured that any existing  insurance  was cancelled.
Thamesbank was at fault for not enclosing  the schedule with the auto renewal letter, 
although I note it was addressed to the home  property. But I do think that as the letter  made 
clear it was for Mr S and Ms T to ensure that the auto renewed policy was suitable for their 
needs. As they had a portfolio of properties it was up to them to check, if their policies were  
on auto renewal, that they werent  continuing  with any unnecessary insurance.
Where there is dual insurance the industry  recognised practice is for both insurers to refund 
50% of any premiums, which is what the Thamesbank insurer has done. So Mr S and Ms T 
should approach the other dual insurer and ask it if it will also refund 50%. 
As to whether  Thamesbank should  pay compensation or make a contribution  Im not inclined 
to make an award. The missing schedule could have  easily  been remedied if Mr S or Ms T 
had contacted Thamesbank to check. And they wouldnt have been  in a dual insurance  
position if they had cancelled the policy before renewal. I realise  that this will come  as a 
disappointment to Mr S and Ms T, but in the circumstances and based  on the present 
evidence, I dont intend to uphold the complaint.
As neither party has responded  my provisional  findings are now final and form part of this 
final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 December  2019
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4864161