K820x#14complaint
Miss R has complained that Everyday Lending  Limited trading as TrustTwo (TrustTwo  or 
the lender) should not have accepted  her as a guarantor on a loan provided to a friend of 
hers, Miss D. 
Miss R says that TrustTwo was irresponsible to have accepted her as guarantor  because it 
didnt carry out a full assessment of her ability to meet the loan repayments, which were 
unaffordable for her. Miss R also says she felt pressured by Miss D to take out the loan, that 
she wasnt given any information  about it, and that her mental health is suffering as a 
consequence of being held responsible for the loan repayments. 
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of September 2019. 
Ive included a copy of this at the end of this document and it forms part of my final decision 
on the matter. I wont repeat its content  here but in summary, I didnt find that Trust Two was 
irresponsible to have  accepted Miss R as a guarantor and so I didnt  uphold  her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As before, I have also taken into account 
the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good  industry practice at the time. As neither party 
has sent me any further information or arguments  to consider, it follows that my decision 
remains unchanged. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I do not uphold Miss Rs 
complaint against  Everyday Lending Limited trading  as TrustTwo and so I am not asking  it to 
remove her as guarantor  for the loan in question  or to award  any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December  2019.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN42215562COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Miss R has complained that Everyday Lending Limited  trading  as TrustTwo (TrustTwo or the 
lender) should not have accepted  her as a guarantor on a loan provided to a friend  of hers,  Miss D. 
Miss R says that TrustTwo was irresponsible to have accepted her as guarantor  because  it didnt  
carry out a full assessment  of her ability to meet the loan repayments, which were  unaffordable for 
her. Miss R also says she felt pressured by Miss D to take out the loan, that she wasnt given any 
information about it, and that her mental health is suffering as a consequence of being held 
responsible for the loan repayments. 
background
TrustTwo agreed a loan of £4,000 for Miss D on 5 July 2018. The monthly repayment was £158.21 
over a term of five years. Miss R signed a guarantee and an indemnity agreement which  bound  her to 
make repayments for the loan in the event that Miss D didnt.
I understand the first loan repayment was made as agreed in August  2018 but none were  received for 
the following five months. Payments resumed  in March of this year and have been made in each  
month up to and including August. TrustTwo says that it is Miss D, the borrower,  who has been 
making these  repayments. 
Our adjudicator assessed  the complaint  and found  that TrustTwo should  have  gone further in its 
assessment of Miss Rs ability to meet the loan repayments. And, had it done so, it would  have found 
that she wasnt in a position to afford the repayments and so should  not have been accepted as 
guarantor. Our adjudicator recommended that TrustTwo remove Miss R as guarantor, refund any 
payments she made towards  the loan and remove  any information  about  it from her credit file. 
TrustTwo didnt  agree  with this recommendation. It said that its affordability assessment was 
appropriate, that it took into account Miss Rs existing  credit commitments and concluded that she 
could afford  to meet the repayments.  TrustTwo asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a review and final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time.
Having considered  everything, Ive provisionally  concluded  that TrustTwos assessment of 
affordability for both Miss D and Miss R needed to go further  than asking about  their income and 
estimating their expenses. However, this doesnt automatically mean I am upholding Miss Rs 
complaint.
Miss D isnt a party to this complaint and I dont have enough  information  about her circumstances to 
conclude that further checks would have shown  the loan to be unaffordable for her. However, from 
what Ive seen  of Miss Rs circumstances  thus far I dont currently think  further checks would have 
shown that she could not afford  to meet the loan repayments in a sustainable  way. Furthermore, I 
cant say that she wasnt properly informed about the impact of being a guarantor. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss R and, to some extent,  for TrustTwo also 
given that I have found  its checks to be insufficient. I hope  my explanation below  makes it clear how I 
have come to this conclusion.
Ref: DRN42215563the relevant regulations
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  was the regulator when Miss Ds loan was granted. The 
relevant rules and guidance  are set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC),  in particular 
Section 5 which deals with responsible lending.  The Office  of Fair Trading  (OFT) was the previous 
regulator and CONC refers  back  to its handbook, entitled Irresponsible Lending Guidance or ILG. 
Ive set out some of these regulations below for ease of reference.
Section 5.2.1R(2)(a)  of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing  to give a consumer 
credit. It says a firm must  consider:
The potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to adversely impact 
the customers financial situation, taking into account the information of which the firm is 
aware at the time the regulated  credit agreement is to be made. 
[Note: paragraph  4.1 of ILG]
Paragraph 4.1 of ILG (box) stated:
'Assessing affordability, in the context of this guidance, is a 'borrower-focussed  test' which 
involves a creditor assessing a borrower's ability to undertake a
specific credit  commitment,  or specific additional credit commitment, in a
sustainable manner, without the borrower incurring (further) financial difficulties
and/or experiencing adverse consequences.
CONC included guidance about these assessments. CONC 5.2.3G says:
The extent and scope  of the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  in a 
given case, should be dependent upon  and proportionate to factors which  may include  one or 
more of the following:
the type of credit;
the amount  of the credit;
the cost of the credit;
the financial position  of the customer at the time of seeking  the credit;
the customer's  credit  history, including any indications that the customer  is 
experiencing or has experienced  financial difficulties;
the customer's  existing  financial commitments  including any repayments due in 
respect of other credit  agreements, consumer  hire agreements, regulated mortgage 
contracts, payments for rent, council  tax, electricity, gas, telecommunications, water 
and other  major outgoings known to the firm;
any future financial commitments of the customer;
any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably expected to have  a 
significant financial  adverse  impact on the customer;
the vulnerability of the customer, in particular where the firm understands the 
customer has some form of mental capacity limitation or reasonably suspects  this to 
be so because the customer displays indications of some form of mental  capacity 
limitation 
CONC 5.2.4G(1)  said that to consider all factors in all cases  would  be disproportionate. 
Ref: DRN42215564CONC 5.2.4G(2)  said
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit being  sought and the potential risks to the customer. 
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and the 
total charge for credit  relative to the customers financial  situation.
CONC 5.3.1G (1) stated  that 
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  a firm should take 
into account  more than assessing  the customer's  ability to repay  the credit.
And CONC 5.3.1G(6)  defined  sustainable as the consumer being  able to meet  the loan repayments
(a) without  undue difficulties,  in particular:
(i) the customer  should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet  the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end  agreement, 
within a reasonable period;  and
(c) out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets
CONC also commented on the source of the information considered. CONC  5.3.1G(4)(b) stated that if 
a lender takes income or expenditure  into account in its assessment
it is not generally sufficient  for a firm to rely solely  for its assessment of the customer's 
income and expenditure,  on a statement of those matters  made by the customer. [Note: 
paragraph 4.13, 4.14 and 4.15 of ILG]. 
Paragraph 4.15 of ILG stated that
We do not consider self-certification of income  would generally be sufficient  in respect  of 
significant long term credit  agreements.
CONC also set out rules  and guidance  for lenders where a loan is guaranteed. 
CONC 5.2.5R stated
(2) Before  entering into the regulated credit agreement, the lender must undertake an 
assessment of the potential for the guarantors  commitments in respect of the regulated credit 
agreement to adversely impact the guarantors financial  situation.
(3) A firm must consider sufficient information to enable it to make a reasonable assessment 
under this rule, taking into account the information of which the firm is aware at the time the 
regulated credit agreement is to be made.
(4) For the purposes of (2), CONC 5.2.3G,  CONC 5.2.4G and CONC 5.3.1G
to CONC 5.3.8G apply as if:
(a) references to the customer were references to the guarantor; and
(b) references to CONC 5.2.2R(1) were references  to CONC 5.2.5R(2).
This last paragraph means that what CONC says about assessing a borrowers risk also applies to 
assessing a guarantors risk.
CONC 5.2.6G(1)  and 5.2.6G(2) stated
The assessment of the guarantor does not need to be identical to the assessment undertaken 
in respect of the borrower, but should be sufficient in depth and scope having regard  to the 
potential obligations  which  might  fall on the guarantor.
Ref: DRN42215565The provision of the guarantee or indemnity (or both), and the assessment of the guarantor   
does not remove or reduce the obligation on the lender to carry  out an assessment of the 
borrower
CONC 4.2.22R(2)  stated
The firm must,  before  making the regulated credit  agreement, provide the guarantor with an 
adequate explanation of the matters in (3) in order to place the guarantor  in a position to 
make an informed  decision  as to whether to act as the guarantor  in relation to the regulated 
credit agreement.
CONC 4.2.22R(3)  stated that these matters are
(a) the circumstances in which the guarantee  or the indemnity (or both) might be      called on; 
and
(b) the implications for the guarantor of the guarantee or the indemnity (or both) being  called 
on.
what this means in Miss Rs case
TrustTwo needed to check that the borrower, Miss D, could afford to meet  her repayments in a 
sustainable manner. This meant Miss D being able to meet her loan repayments out of her normal 
income without having to go without or borrow further.  The regulations didnt  specify how exactly  the 
assessment was to be carried out but, whatever the method, it needed to be enough  to assess the 
sustainability of the arrangement for Miss D. 
The regulations also required TrustTwo to assess whether the loan repayment would impact 
negatively on the finances  of Miss R as guarantor. This assessment didnt need to be identical to that 
carried out for Miss D as borrower but it did need to be sufficient in depth  and scope having  regard to 
the potential obligations  which might  fall on the guarantor. And CONC 5.2.5R(4) states  that the same 
assessment considerations regarding assessments  for borrowers also apply to assessments for 
guarantors. 
It seems to me then that TrustTwos affordability  assessments needed  to be appropriate to the 
circumstances of the loan in question and to Miss D and Miss Rs personal circumstances. 
In addition, as set out in CONC 4.2, TrustTwo  needed  to provide Miss R with enough  information  
about the loan and her obligations in this regard  to enable her to make  an informed choice about 
becoming a guarantor.
So  bearing all of this in mind, the questions I need to consider in coming  to a fair and reasonable 
decision on this case are whether or not TrustTwo:
1)carried out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss D would be able to repay  her loan in 
a sustainable way; and
2)carried out proportionate checks on Miss R to satisfy  itself that she was in a position  repay  the 
loan in the event  that Miss D did not; and
3)obtained Miss Rs properly  informed  consent before binding her to the guarantee and 
indemnity agreement.
If I find that TrustTwo didnt do any of the above then I need to consider what  would  have happened 
had everything gone as it should have and, ultimately, whether or not TrustTwo  made a fair decision  
in lending to Miss D and in agreeing to accept Miss R as her guarantor.
Ref: DRN42215566did TrustTwo carry out proportionate checks to assess the affordability of the loan for Miss D and 
Miss R?
TrustTwo says it asked Miss D about her monthly income  and estimated a figure for her monthly  
expenditure. I understand it also checked her credit file and asked about  her living  arrangements. 
Miss D had originally asked  for a loan of £8,500 which meant a monthly repayment of approximately 
£336. TrustTwo declined to lend this amount  and instead  agreed  to lend the lower amount of £4,000 
which meant a monthly repayment  of approximately  £158.
Given the amount  TrustTwo  was prepared to lend to Miss D and the length  of time shed be indebted, 
I think  it should have done more here to reasonably  assess whether or not Miss D would be able to 
meet her repayments over the five years  of the loan agreement. I dont think it was enough to 
estimate her expenses without reference to her particular  financial circumstances.  Nor do I think  it 
was fair to her to rely on what  she said about her income  without taking steps to verify this.
That said, I dont know what TrustTwo  was likely to have found  out had it gone further in its 
affordability assessment.  I dont  have  any information  about  Miss Ds circumstances at the time,  her 
experience with the lender or any evidence  in the form of bank  statements or comment from her about  
her financial situation. And so I cant say that TrustTwo would have declined to lend at all, had 
everything gone as it should have.
I am concerned that Miss D seems to have made only one repayment before a period of not meeting  
her repayments. This might  suggest to me that she wasnt in a position to repay the loan and calls into 
question what further checks might have revealed to the lender. However, I understand Miss D is now 
making her repayments again and has done so for several months. 
TrustTwo carried out a similar assessment of Miss Rs ability to meet the loan repayments.  It asked  
about her monthly  income and estimated her expenses. It also incorporated information  about  her 
existing credit  commitments from her credit file and asked about  her living arrangements.  As with 
Miss Ds assessment, I think TrustTwo ought to have looked further into Miss Rs actual 
circumstances to understand her living costs and verified the information she provided about these 
and about her income before agreeing to lend.  
Our adjudicator explained this in her view.  
TrustTwo said in response  that Miss [R] is the guarantor for this loan and it is only when the applicant 
needs help that Miss [R] would  be required  to provide assistance. It is not a personal contract  where  
Miss [R] would be expected to make all contractual payments over the full loan term.
Firstly, as guarantor, Miss R signed a legally binding agreement which  stated that if the debtor  fails to 
keep to his agreement with Everyday Lending Limited, YOU MAY HAVE TO PAY INSTEAD and fulfil 
any obligations under the guarantee and indemnity.
TrustTwos website explains that If a borrower ever enters a debt management plan (e.g. Individual 
Voluntary Arrangement - IVA) or refuses to pay, you may be required to make any further payments 
until the loan is fully repaid.1
These texts make it clear that if Miss D didnt make her repayments Miss R would potentially need to 
repay the loan in its entirety. The fact that repaying  the entire amount was a possibility needed  to be 
taken into account when TrustTwo carried out its affordability assessment. The purpose of the 
assessment was to assess the risk to Miss R of repayments impacting adversely on her finances 
having regard to the potential  obligations which might fall on the guarantor. And repaying the entire  
loan could obviously have more of an impact  than making a one-off payment. 
1 https://www.trusttwo.co.uk/being-a-guarantor/responsibilities-and-essential-info
Ref: DRN42215567TrustTwo also said in response to our adjudicator  that You state within  your review that because  of 
the loan term of 60 months, further checks should have been conducted. This is implying that due to 
the length  of the loan that further checks were needed regarding long term affordability or potential  
changes in circumstance. However,  you only state because the loan term was over such a long 
period that we should have reviewed Miss [R]s bank statements. Checking bank statements  is only 
reviewing Miss [R]s circumstance  at that time.
The regulations are very clear that an affordability assessment should  consider the risk to the 
borrower (or guarantor) of not being able to meet repayments  in a sustainable manner over the 
lifetime of the agreement. Miss R was potentially going to have to commit over 10% of her monthly  
income at any point  over the next five years to repaying this loan, and potentially more than once.  In 
my view assessing  the risk of this impacting  adversely on Miss R required a level of understanding 
and reassurance around her personal circumstances  beyond  the assessment carried  out by 
TrustTwo. 
what would TrustTwo have  found out about Miss Rs finances, had its checks gone further? 
As Ive said above the regulations werent  specific about how assessments were  to be carried out. 
And to clarify   our adjudicator said in her view that one way of doing  this wouldve been to review 
Miss [R]s bank statements  but this wasnt  the only way. Ive reviewed  Miss Rs bank statements 
because this is what she has provided. They give me an overview of her finances at the time and are 
a reasonable proxy  for the information I think TrustTwo would have found  out, had its checks gone 
further. 
I can see from the bank statements that TrustTwos record of Miss Rs income as £1,220 was broadly 
correct. The lender estimated her living  costs as £500. It recorded an amount of £363 of existing 
creditor repayments based  on what it saw on her credit file. And it calculated that making a loan 
repayment would leave Miss R with a disposable income  of just less than £200  in that month. 
Our adjudicator found  that Miss R had other monthly financial commitments of approximately £400 
and seemed to be reliant on her overdraft  of £650. But having reviewed the information  TrustTwo has 
provided it seems to me that it took into account Miss Rs other financial commitments that it could 
see on her credit file in its affordability calculations.  So I dont think the £400 shown  on her bank 
statements constituted  additional commitments.
Miss R has said little to this Service about her living costs at the time,  but she has told me that she 
paid £100 in rent. It seems she told TrustTwo that she was living at home and had no dependents. 
Had TrustTwo enquired  further  into Miss Rs living costs,  as I think it should  have, I dont think it would  
have found out that she spent more  than its estimated £500, based  on what I can identify on her bank 
statements plus her rent amount.
It is true that Miss R was using her overdraft and was more often than not overdrawn  around that 
time, though her monthly salary brought her back into credit each month.  But  in the context of this 
case, I cant say its enough of a sign of financial difficulty on its own that TrustTwo ought to have 
been sufficiently concerned  to decline her as a guarantor. 
It is also the case that there were several  transfers out of Miss Rs account to other people, at least 
one of which seems have  been funded by a loan from another lender.  Miss R explained  that some of 
the transfers were  to her partner at the time with whom she shared money  and she felt this had no 
bearing on her complaint. On balance  then, I cant find that knowing of these transactions would have, 
or ought to have, been of such concern to TrustTwo  that it would not have continued with Miss R as 
guarantor.  
So even with further checks, I think it would  have seemed to TrustTwo  that Miss R could afford to 
repay the loan sustainably and I cant find that it was wrong in this regard in accepting her as a 
guarantor. 
Ref: DRN42215568did TrustTwo obtain Miss Rs properly  informed  consent before binding  her to the guarantee and 
indemnity agreement?
Our adjudicator didnt make a finding on this point because she recommended  that the case  be 
upheld for other  reasons.  
Miss R said in her complaint to this Service  that had she known the consequences of being a 
guarantor then she would  not have accepted the role. She said I believe that I was coerced into 
being a guarantor without  full or proper knowledge of the situation, I was never  given full information 
on the loan and I was told that because the borrower didnt have a bank account  at the time it would  
be transferred into my account and that she will have  to get it that way, I was able to send this money 
to her sisters account which was done over the week due to me not been able to send a full amount  in 
my online  banking  app. I felt pressured into signing without a full explanation and was made  aware 
that there would be bad consequences for myself if I didnt.
Miss R said in her original  complaint to TrustTwo  (via a representative) that it was never  explained  to 
her that she was in fact signing for a guarantor loan. Her representative said:
My client  was never given any information about the loan from [Miss  D]. My client was
told nothing with regards  to the consequences of the loan and what it would mean  if
repayments were not met. As [Miss D] does not have her own personal bank account, my
client was told is that what they were signing for was for the money  to be transferred into her
account and to be passed to [Miss D], it was never explained to my client that what  she was
in fact signing for was a guarantor loan.
As my client did not receive any paperwork  regarding  the loan or a phone  call to explain the
situation, they believed that once the money had left their account  then the matter was over.
TrustTwo had several telephone conversations  with Miss R on the day the loan was agreed, the 5 
July 2018. It has provided a list of calls to and from her mobile number and provided  call recordings 
for some of the calls. I have listened to these and summarised them  below.
No. TimeDuration 
(minutes)Summary
1 10:11 23Call out for discussion with Miss R of her expenses, 
relationship with Miss D and guarantor  obligations. 
2 15:03 5Call in by Miss R requesting an update. The 
underwriter explains she needs to talk to 
Miss D. Further  discussion between Miss R and the 
underwriter about her relationship with 
Miss D and her obligations as guarantor.
3 15:27 0 Recording not provided
4 15:30 4Call in by Miss R requesting an update following  a 
missed call and requesting  to speak with 
underwriters. Call back at 6pm agreed.
5 16:00 2.5 Recording not provided
6 16:12 13Miss D calling from Miss Rs phone about being 
declined for her loan and asking if she can have a 
lower amount. 
7 17:58 1.5Call in by Miss R asking when the loan will be 
deposited into her bank account.
Ref: DRN42215569During Call 1 the representative asked about Miss Rs income and expenses, going  into some detail 
about the existing  credit commitments seen on her credit file. Miss R asked  what  would happen in the 
event of Miss D not making a loan repayment  and if the repayment was then taken directly  from her 
bank account. The representative said that this didnt  happen, that TrustTwo  would  contact her and 
request payment. 
The representative then checked that Miss D could log into her online account, explained  that she 
would be able to read the loan documents online and that he was going  to go through her terms and 
conditions. Miss D said I understand all the terms and conditions, do you have to go through  them? 
Ive looked at all the terms and conditions online, do you have to read them  all to me?  She said that 
she was at work. 
The representative apologised and explained that he had to do this. He confirmed  the loan details 
including the principal  amount, the term in months and years, the monthly repayment, the total 
amount repayable and the interest  rate. This was for the original amount  requested of £8,500.  The 
representative then read out the following text: 
 If for whatever reason Miss [D] is unable to make the repayments then you agree  to make the full 
contractual repayment which  could continue until the loan has been paid in full. If neither  you nor Miss 
[D] makes the repayments  on time we may take legal action against you. Adverse information will be 
logged with the credit bureau against Miss [D]. No information is reported back  to credit reference 
agencies for guarantors even if payment is missed unless  legal action is taken.
The representative then directed Miss R to the guarantor section  of the TrustTwo  website and 
strongly recommended  that she read that. This part of the website includes a section  on guarantor  
responsibilities, which I have quoted from above. He also explained that the online  documents  would 
include Miss Ds loan document  and her terms and conditions,  Miss Rs terms and conditions and 
guarantor indemnity form.  
During Call 2, the underwriter checked that Miss R was happy to be a guarantor. She said It is quite 
a large amount  we want to make sure you understand the obligations..? If Miss [D] wasnt able to 
pay that would leave you making a £336.19 payment and youre happy with that? And you completely 
understand your obligations? Miss R said that she was and asked when  the loan would be deposited 
into her account.
Calls 4 and 7 are Miss R calling in for an update on the loan. 
My conclusions from the above are firstly, that I am not persuaded Miss R was pressured into being  a 
guarantor for Miss Ds loan. Miss R hasnt told me anything which helps  me to understand why she 
would have felt pressured to do so. And from the sequence and content of the calls,  it seems to me 
that Miss R was actively managing the progress  of the application for credit.  In order to find that she 
was being pressured  into being a guarantor  in this case I would need  to find she was being  pressured  
into actually obtaining  the credit. Miss R has not said that that is what happened here and I have seen 
no evidence of this.
Secondly, I cannot conclude that Miss R became a guarantor for the original  loan amount without 
being given sufficient  information  about  the loan or without understanding the consequences of being 
a guarantor. To be clear - I am not making a finding that TrustTwo acted responsibly in agreeing 
credit for Miss D. I am also not making a finding  that TrustTwo did everything it should have when 
accepting Miss R as guarantor for that credit, as I will explain below. However, in this case, given the 
telephone calls I have  listened to and the signed agreement  forms Ive seen,  I think Miss R 
understood the details of the original loan and what would  happen in the event  that Miss D didnt 
make her repayments. 
I have some concerns  about what Miss R was told about the reduction in credit offered to Miss D. As 
mentioned, Miss D originally  applied for a £8,500 loan. She was turned down for this but offered  a 
lower amount of £4,000 with correspondingly lower monthly repayments. Call 6 in the above list 
Ref: DRN422155610seems to be when the lower amount was agreed with Miss D. Its not clear  to me when or how Miss R 
was informed about the decline of Miss Ds original application and the offer of a reduced amount. 
However, as this call was from Miss Rs mobile  phone I think  its reasonable to assume she was 
aware of the content of that call, specifically the lower amount  of credit being  offered to Miss D. And 
my conclusions above remain the same.  
Finally, Miss R said in her original complaint to TrustTwo that she had diagnosed mental  health 
issues. She told this Service that she agreed  to be a guarantor to help her friend and now she was 
suffering.  I am sorry to hear of Miss Rs difficulties. Having considered  this point carefully,  I cant say 
that TrustTwo was aware of any issues she may have had at the time. I havent seen anything in the 
information I have available to me which suggests it ought  to have been.  And I dont have enough 
information from Miss R to bring  me to the conclusion  she ought  to be removed  as guarantor now for 
health reasons. 
As Ive mentioned earlier, I understand  that while the loan account  is still in arrears, Miss D is now 
making her loan repayments.  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not intend to uphold Miss Rs complaint about  Everyday Lending 
Limited (trading as TrustTwo) and so I am not asking  it to remove her as guarantor  for the loan in 
question or award  any compensation.
Ill wait a month to see if either party has anything  further  to add before considering my decision on 
this complaint once more.
Ref: DRN4221556